Administrative Procedures Act Rules



Title 11: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality

Part 6: Wastewater Pollution Control Regulations

Part 6, Chapter 1: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permits, Underground Injection Control (UIC)
Permits, State Permits, Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations and Water Quality
Certification


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Subchapter 1 Wastewater Permit Regulations

Rule 1.1.1 General Requirements

    A.   Definitions of Terms

    B. Applicability and Required Permits

    C. Permits: Preliminary Determinations and Siting Criteria

Rule 1.1.2 Permit Applications

    A. Permits: Applications, Filing Procedures and Requirements

    B. Permits: Application Exemptions

    C. Permit Applications and Other Forms: Valid Signature

    D. Application Requirements Regarding Toxicity for Existing Discharges

    E. Misrepresentation of Information on Application Forms and Other Reports

Rule 1.1.3 Procedural Aspects of Permit Issuance

    A. Permits: Preliminary Determinations, Draft Permits, Certificates of Coverage and
       Variances

    B. Public Notice of Draft Permits and Preliminary Determinations

    C. Public Notice and Fact Sheets

                                              1
    D. Draft Permits: Transmittal to Regional Administor (or his/her designee), Deficiencies,
       Additional Data Requirements

    E. Public Access to Forms, Commission Files and Records

    F. Protection of Confidential Information

    G. Draft Permits: Public Hearings

    H. Permit Board Determinations, Issuance or Denial of Permits

    I.   Final Permits: Transmittal to EPA

Rule 1.1.4 Terms And Conditions Applicable To Permits

    A. All Permits, Unless Otherwise Noted in Those Regulations or in Federal Regulations
       Referenced Herein

    B. State Permits Issued to a POW or NPDES Permits Issued to POTW

    C. General Requirements Applicable to State Permits Issued to Concentrated Animal
       Operations or NPDES Permits Issued to Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations

    D. State No Discharge Permit Issued to a Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facilty with a
       Capacity of 1500 Galloons per Day or Less or NPDES Permits Issued to a Domestic
       Wastewater Treatment Facility with a Capacity of 1500 Gallons per Day or Less

    E. Administration of State General Permits and NPDES General Permits

    F. NPDES Permits Only

    G. NPDES Mineral Mining and Processing Permits

    H. NPDES Animal Waste Permits Only

    I.   Storm Waster NPDES General Permits Only

    J.   Sewage Sludge Use or Disposal Requirements

    K. UIC Permits

    L. State Permits

    M. Pretreatment Permits

    N. State Permits Issued to Animal Feeding Operations Only

                                                2
    O. State Mineral Mining and Processing Permits

    P. State Permits for the Disposal of Contaminated Milk

    Q. State Permits for Aerial Applicator Program

Rule 1.1.5 Duration, Review and Reissuance, Transfer, Modification, Termination, Revocation,
Enforcement and Property Rights

    A. Duration of Permit

    B.   Review and Reissuance of State, UIC, or NPDES Permits: Requests and Filing
         Requirements

    C.   State, UIC, and NPDES Permits: Transfer, Modification, Termination, or Revocation
         by the Permit Board

    D. Enforcement

    E. Property Rights, All Permits

Rule 1.1.6 Noncompliance Lists, Plans And Specifications:      Submittal Requirements, and
Severability

    A.   Noncompliance Lists

    B.   Plans and Specifications: Submittal Requirements

    C.   Severability

Subchapter 2: Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations

Rule 1.2.1 Background

Rule 1.2.2 General Requirements

    A. Applicability

    B. General Technical Guidance

Rule 1.2.3 WQBEL Process

    A. Water Quality Based Effluent Limits

    B. Modeling



                                              3
    C. Calibration Modeling

    D. WQBEL Process Use

    E. WQBELs Apply to Watershed

    F. Quality Assurance

Rule 1.2.4 Waters Difficult to Model

    A. Losing Flow Streams

    B. Lakes

    C. Natural Wetlands

    D. Nutrient Enriched Waters

Rule 1.2.5 Special Cases

    A. Effluent Channels

    B. Ephemeral Streams

    C. Dystrophic Waters

    D. Shellfish Waters

Rule 1.2.6 Toxicity

    A. General

    B. Applicability

    C. Application/Determination of Alternative Chemical Specific Limitations

    D.   Toxicity Limits

    E. Procedures for Chemical Specific Screening

    F. Screening Storm Water Discharges

    G. Determining Compliance with Non-Detect or Below Detection Limitations

    H. Attaining Compliance with WQBELs



                                            4
Rule 1.2.7 Bibliography

Exhibit A to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - Empirical Water Body Model Assumptions for
Conventional Pollutants and Conventional Water Quality Models

I. Empirical Stream, Lake, and Estuary Model Assumptions for
Conventional Pollutants

       A.   7Q10 Flow Values

       B.   7Q2 Flow Values

       C.   Temperature

       D.   Velocity

       E.   Depth

       F.   Slope

       G.   Kd (Carbonaceous Deoxygenation Rate)

       H.   Kn (Nitrogenous Deoxygenation Rate)

       I.   Ka (Reaeration Rate)

       J.   Stream Background Conditions

       K.   Photosynthesis / Respiration

       L.   Sediment Oxygen Demand

       M.   Wastewater Inputs

       N.   Disinfection

       O.   Chlorine Toxicity

       P.   Instream Waste Concentration

       Q.   Ammonia Toxicity

II.    Conventional Water Quality Models

Exhibit B to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - Disinfection Requirements For Sanitary Sewage



                                              5
I.     Discharge to Waters Classified Public Water Supply

II.   Discharges to Waters Classified Recreation and to Waters of other Classifications with
known Recreational Sites

III.   Discharges to Waters Classified Shellfish Harvesting

IV.    Discharges to Waters Classified Fish and Wildlife

V.     Discharges to Waters Classified Ephemeral

VI.    Consistency with Water Quality Standards

Exhibit C to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - Values of Runoff Coefficient C

Exhibit D to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - Bioassay Requirements

I.     Chronic Bioassay Requirements

II.    Acute Bioassay Requirements

III.   Acute Whole Effluent Toxicity Monitoring Requirements

IV.    Chronic Whole Effluent Toxicity Monitoring Requirements

NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form Mississippi Office of Pollution Control

Exhibit E to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 – Antidegradation Implementation Methodology

I.     Introduction

       Tier 1 Waters

       Tier 2 Waters

       Tier 3 Waters

II.    Applicability of Antidegradation Policy Review Methods

III.   Required Antidegradation Components

       Project Information

       Alternatives Analysis

       Socio-Economic Impacts Analysis

                                               6
       Public Review / Input

       Final Action

      Antidegradation Instruction Forms

Exhibit F to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 – Bibliography

Exhibit G to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 – Tier 3 Nomination Documentation Requirements

Subchapter 3 Water Quality Certification of Activities Requiring Federal Licenses or Permits

Rule 1.3.1 Background and General Requirements

Rule 1.3.2 Applications

Rule 1.3.3 Public Notice and Public Hearing

Rule 1.3.4 Scope of Review for Application Decisions

Rule 1.3.5 Enforcement of Certification Decisions and Conditions

Rule 1.3.6 Review and Appeals

Exhibit A to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - Criteria for the Siting and Design of Excavated Canals

Exhibit B to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - Freshwater and Coastal Marina Guidelines

Exhibit C to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - Sand and Gravel Bar Mining in-the-Dry

Exhibit D to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - Storm Water Runoff Plan

Exhibit E to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - Criteria for certain Existing Coastal Subdivisions
Originally Platted in lands which, because of the passage of the
Federal Act and related Laws and/or Regulations, are presently
Unsuitable For Development


Subchapter 1 Wastewater Permit Regulations

Rule 1.1.1 General Requirements.

A.     Definitions of Terms

The applicable definitions set forth in 40 CFR 122, 123, 124, 125, 144, 146, 403 and 503 and all
amendments and additions thereto are incorporated herein and adopted by reference and shall be

                                                7
considered valid in this regulation, unless a term is otherwise defined herein.   In addition, the
following definitions are applicable.

       (1)    "Affected Discharger" is an existing permitted wastewater discharger, or a
              proposed wastewater discharger, which has either a pending permit application or
              a permit or is included in a State Revolving Fund ("SRF") Facilities Plan.

       (2)    "Allowable Loading" or "available assimilative capacity" is that portion of the
              loading capacity of a water body that is available for allocating to a point source
              discharger(s) through regulation by the Department. It is the difference between
              the loading capacity and the total loading of pollutants from other sources, such as
              background, nonpoint sources, and exempt sources.

       (3)    "Ambient water quality" means the physical, chemical and biological
              characteristics of waters of the State.

       (4)    "Applicant" means a person applying to the Permit Board for an individual State
              permit, coverage under a State general permit, UIC permit, individual NPDES
              permit or coverage under an NPDES general permit to discharge wastes or other
              fluids into the waters of the State, or to operate a treatment works.

       (5)    "Application" means either:

              (a)     The uniform NPDES or UIC application form, current at the time
                      application is made,

              (b)     A Notice of Intent form for coverage under an NPDES general permit, or a
                      State general permit, or

              (c)     A State permit application form.

       (6)    "Approved methods" means sampling and laboratory testing methods approved
              by the Department, as specified in Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.

       (7)    "Assimilative capacity" means the capacity of a body of water or soil-plant
              system to receive wastewater effluent or sludge without violating the provisions
              of the State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and
              Coastal Waters and these regulations.

       (8)    "Background" shall mean the condition of waters in the absence of the activity or
              discharge under consideration based on the best scientific information available to
              the Department.

       (9)    “Bypass” is defined in 40 CFR 122.41(m), as amended.




                                               8
(10)   "Bulk storage" means storage of petroleum products, materials and/or liquids with
       chronic or acute potential for pollution impact on waters of the State at a facility
       with an above ground storage capacity of more than 1320 gallons or any single
       container with a capacity greater than 660 gallons.

(11)   "Calibrated and/or verified models" are models whose reaction rates and inputs
       are significantly based on actual measurements using data from surveys on the
       receiving water body. Verified models are calibrated to one set of field data and
       confirmed by comparison to at least one additional set of field data taken under
       different physical circumstances.

(12)   "Certificate of Coverage" A document issued by the Permit Board or its designee
       granting coverage under an existing general permit.

(13)   "Code" or "Miss. Code Ann." means the Mississippi Code of 1972.

(14)   "Commission" means the Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality.

(15)   "Daily discharge" means the "discharge of a pollutant" measured during a
       calendar day or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for
       purposes of sampling. For pollutants with limitations expressed in units of mass,
       the "daily discharge" is calculated as the total mass of the pollutant discharged
       over the day. For pollutants with limitations expressed in other units of
       measurement, the "daily average" is calculated as the average measurement of the
       discharge of the pollutant over the day.

(16)   "Daily maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" over a calendar month.

(17)   "Department" means the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.

(18)   "Dystrophic waters" means receiving water bodies whose natural background
       conditions do not meet one or more of the State's water quality criteria.

(19)   "Effluent standards and limitations" means all State or Federal effluent standards
       and limitations on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical,
       biological and other constituents to which a waste or wastewater discharge may
       be subject under the Federal Act or the State law, including but not limited to,
       effluent limitations, standards of performance, toxic effluent standards and
       prohibitions, pretreatment standards and schedules of compliance.

(20)   "Effluent channel" means a man-made discernible confined and discrete
       conveyance which is used for transporting treated wastewater to a receiving
       stream or other body of water; provided that such channel has characteristics as
       follows:




                                        9
       (a)    is contained entirely on property owned (or controlled by easement) by the
              discharger (to be demonstrated by the discharger),

       (b)    does not contain natural waters except when such waters occur in direct
              response to rainfall events by overland runoff, and

       (c)    is so constructed or modified to minimize the migration of fish into said
              channel.

Effluent channels shall be identified by the Commission and designated on a case-by-case
basis prior to permit issuance.

(21)   "Effluent" unless otherwise provided, means treated wastewater flowing out of
       the treatment facilities.

(22)   "Empirical model" means a mathematical formulation whose various
       reaction rates and input parameters are determined through empirical
       formulations based on literature reviews. The simplest empirical model is a
       dilution model.

(23)   "Ephemeral streams" normally are natural watercourses, including natural
       watercourses that have been modified by channelization or man-made drainage
       ditches, that, without the influence of point source discharges, flow only in direct
       response to precipitation or irrigation return water discharge in the immediate
       vicinity and whose channels are normally above the groundwater table. These
       streams may contain a transient population of aquatic life during the portion of the
       year when there is a suitable habitat for fish survival. Normally, aquatic habitat in
       these streams is not adequate to support a reproductive cycle for fish and other
       aquatic life. Wetlands are excluded from this classification.

(24)   "Estuary" means a semi-enclosed naturally existing coastal body of water which
       has a free connection with the open sea and within which the chloride
       concentration at the surface is equal to or greater than 1,500 milligrams per liter.

(25)   "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Department of
       Environmental Quality.

(26)   "Fact sheet" means a description of a facility or activity, available to the public,
       prepared by the Commission staff pursuant to the guidelines, which includes, but
       is not limited to, information on the location of the discharge, rate or frequency of
       the discharge, components of the discharge, proposed requirements of the Permit
       Board regarding the discharge, the location and identification of uses of the
       receiving waters, water quality standards and procedures for formulation of final
       requirements on the discharge by the Permit Board.




                                        10
(27)   "Feasible alternatives" are those alternatives that are available and capable of
       being carried out after taking into consideration cost, existing technology, and
       logistics in light of overall project purposes.

(28)   "Federal Act" means the Federal Clean Water Act, or the Safe Drinking Water
       Act, whichever is applicable; and the applicable regulations promulgated under
       those statutes.

(29)   “Hazardous Substances” are defined in 40 CFR 116.4, as amended.

(30)   "Instream" means the resulting condition in the water body after mixing with the
       wastewater(s) at the appropriate critical flow/mixing condition.

(31)   "Interference" The definition of "interference" set forth in 40 CFR 403.3(i) is
       incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(32)   "Load Allocation (LA)" means the portion of a receiving water's loading capacity
       attributed to or assigned to nonpoint sources (NPS) or background sources of a
       pollutant.

(33)   "Loading capacity" Loading capacity and Total Maximum Daily Load are
       equivalent terms.

(34)   "Losing flow stream" is a stream which is recharging groundwater.

(35)   "Mailing list" means a list of persons requesting notification and information on
       public hearings, permits, and other matters and forms.

(36)   "Major facility" means any NPDES "facility or activity" classified as such
       by the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) in conjunction with the
       Executive Director.

(37)   "Man-induced conditions which cannot be controlled or abated" are conditions
       that have been influenced by human activities, and have the characteristics as
       follows:

       (a)    would remain after removal of all point sources,

       (b)    would remain after imposition of best management practices for non-point
              sources, and

       (c)    cannot be restored or abated by physical alteration of the water body; or
              there is no reasonable relationship between the economic, social and
              environmental costs and the benefits of restoration or physical alteration.




                                       11
(38)   "Management agency" means an area-wide waste treatment management agency
       designated by the governor pursuant to Section 208(a) of the Federal Clean Water
       Act.

(39)   “Maximum Monthly Average” means the highest “monthly average” over a
       monitoring period.

(40)   “Maximum Weekly Average” means the highest “weekly average” over a
       monitoring period.

(41)   The “Method Detection Limit (MDL)” is defined as the minimum concentration
       of a substance that can be measured and reported with 99% confidence that the
       analyte concentration is greater than zero and is determined from analysis of a
       sample in a given matrix containing the analyte.

(42)   “Minimum Quantitation Level (MQL)” – is the concentration in a sample that is
       equivalent to the concentration of the lowest calibration standard analyzed by a
       specific analytical procedure, assuming that all of the method-specified
       calculations, sample weights, volumes, and processing steps have been followed,
       and also allowing for matrix interference.

(43)   "Mitigation" means the following (in order of preference):

       (a)    avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or part of an
              action;

       (b)    minimizing impacts by limiting the degree of magnitude of the action and
              its implementation, by using appropriate technology, or by taking
              affirmative steps to avoid or reduce impacts;

       (c)    rectifying the impacts by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the affected
              environment;

       (d)    reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and
              maintenance operations during the life of the action; or

       (e)    compensating for the impact by replacing, enhancing, or providing
              substitute resources or environments.

   Mitigation for individual actions may include a combination of the above measures.

(44)   "Monthly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a calendar
       month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar
       month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during the month .
       The monthly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of "daily
       discharges" measured during the calendar month. In computing the geometric

                                        12
       mean for fecal coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample
       results of zero.

(45)   "NPDES form" means any issued permit or any uniform national form prescribed
       for use by the Commission in the NPDES Program and prescribed in regulations
       promulgated by the Administrator of EPA, including an NPDES application and a
       reporting form.

(46)   "NPDES permit" means an individual or general permit issued by the Permit
       Board pursuant to regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board
       under Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for discharges into State
       waters.

(47)   "Natural background" means the condition of waters in the absence of man-
       induced alterations based on the best scientific information available to the
       Department. The establishment of natural background for an altered water body
       may be based upon a similar unaltered water body or on historical pre-alteration
       data.

(48)   "Non-compliance list" means a list of dischargers, prepared by the Executive
       Director pursuant to this regulation and the guidelines for transmittal to the
       Regional Administrator (or his/her designee), who fail or refuse to comply with a
       condition in an NPDES, Pretreatment or UIC permit issued pursuant to State law.

(49)   "Notice of Intent (NOI) form" means a form used to request coverage under an
       issued NPDES general permit or an issued State general permit.

(50)   "NPDES general permit" means an NPDES permit written to cover a specified
       category of similar discharges within a specified geographical or political
       boundary as described in 40 CFR 122.28(a).

(51)   "Office Head" means the Head of the Office of Pollution Control of the
       Department of Environmental Quality.

(52)   "Permit Board" means the Permit Board of the Department of Environmental
       Quality established pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-28.

(53)   "Pass Through" means a discharge which exits a publicly owned treatment works
       ("POTW") into waters of the State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or
       in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, causes a
       violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase
       in the magnitude or duration of a violation) and/or causes a violation of Water
       Quality Standards.

(54)   "Person" means the State or other agency or institution thereof, any municipality,
       county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, individual,

                                       13
       partnership, association, or other entity, and includes any officer or governing or
       managing body of any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or
       private corporation, or the United States or any officer or employee thereof.

(55)   "Pollution" means such contamination, or other alteration of the physical,
       chemical, or biological properties, of any waters of the State, including change in
       temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of the waters, or such discharge of any
       liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance or leak into any waters of
       the State, unless in compliance with a valid permit issued by the Permit Board.

(56)   "POTW" means a publicly owned treatment works.

(57)   "Pretreatment New Source" The definition of "new source" set forth in 40
       CFR 403.3(k) is incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(58)   "Primary industrial facility" means any industry category listed in the NRDC
       settlement agreement (Natural Resources Defense Council et. al. v. Train, 8
       E.R.C. 2120 (D.D.C. 1976), modified 12 E.R.C. 1833 (D.D.C. 1979)); also listed
       in appendix A of 40 CFR 122, which is incorporated herein and adopted by
       reference.

(59)   "Pretreatment system" means any process used to reduce the amount of pollutants
       in wastewater before discharging the wastewater into a publicly owned treatment
       works or privately owned treatment works treating non-domestic wastewater.

(60)   "Publicly Owned Treatment Works" is a waste treatment facility owned and/or
       operated by a public body or a privately owned treatment works which accepts
       discharges which would otherwise be subject to Federal Pretreatment
       Requirements.

(61)   "Quarterly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a three-month
       period, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during the quarter
       divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during the quarter. The
       quarterly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of "daily
       discharges" measured during the quarter. In computing the geometric mean for
       fecal coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of
       zero.

(62)   "Quarterly maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" measured over a three-
       month period.

(63)   "Reporting form" means the uniform NPDES or UIC reporting form, including
       subsequent additions, revisions or modifications thereof, promulgated by the
       Administrator of EPA and prescribed by the Commission for use in administering
       these regulations, or a State form prescribed by the Commission for use in



                                        14
       administering these regulations, for reporting data and information to the Permit
       Board by a permittee on monitoring and other conditions of permits.

(64)   “Sewerage Works” means pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force
       mains, and other structures, devices, appurtenances and facilities used for
       collecting or conducting wastes to an ultimate point for treatment or disposal.

(65)   "State general permit" means a state permit written to cover a specified category
       of similar facilities within a specified geographical or political boundary.

(66)   "State permit" means an individual or general permit issued by the Permit Board
       pursuant to regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board under
       Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for the operation of a treatment
       works from which no discharge occurs, for discharges into State waters where an
       NPDES or UIC permit may not be applicable, or for discharges to a publicly
       owned treatment works where a pretreatment system is utilized.

(67)   “Submitted” means the document is postmarked on or before the applicable
       deadline, except as otherwise specified.

(68)   "Technology based effluent limitation (TBEL)" means a minimum waste
       treatment requirement, established by the Department, based on treatment
       technology. The minimum treatment requirements may be set at levels more
       stringent than that which is necessary to meet water quality standards of the
       receiving water body as set out specifically in other sections of these regulations.
       TBELs shall be federal effluent guidelines if promulgated, otherwise TBELs shall
       be established in accordance with 40 CFR 125 subpart A, which is incorporated
       herein and adopted by reference.

(69)   "The State law" means the Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law,
       specifically Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-1 through 49-17-43, and any subsequent
       amendments thereto.

(70)   "Total Maximum Daily Load" or "TMDL" means the calculated maximum
       permissible pollutant loading to a water body at which water quality standards can
       be maintained. It is the sum of wasteload allocations (WLAs) and load
       allocations (LAs) for any given pollutant plus a margin of safety in a watershed.

(71)   “Toxic Pollutants” means any pollutant listed as toxic under Section 307(a)(1) or,
       in the case of “sludge use or disposal practices,” any pollutant identified in
       regulations implementing Section 405(d) of the Clean Water Act.

(72)   "Trade secret" means information concerning the whole or any portion or phase of
       any manufacturing proprietary process or method, not patented, which is secret,
       used or useful in compounding goods having a commercial value, and the secrecy
       of which the owner has taken reasonable measures to prevent from becoming

                                        15
       available to persons other than those selected by the owner to have access thereto
       for limited purposes. It shall not be construed for purpose of this regulation to
       include any information relative to the quantity and character of waste products or
       their constituents discharged or sought to be discharged into waters of this State,
       or into any publicly owned treatment works.

(73)   "Treatment works" means any plant or other works, used for the purpose of
       treating, stabilizing, or holding wastes.

(74)   "UIC form" means any issued permit or any uniform national form used by the
       Permit Board developed for use in the UIC Program and prescribed in regulations
       promulgated by the Administrator of EPA including a UIC application and a
       reporting form.

(75)   "UIC permit" means a permit issued by the Permit Board to a person pursuant to
       regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board under Miss. Code
       Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for discharges into underground waters of the
       State.

(76)   "UIC Program" means the Underground Injection Control program established by
       the Fed eral Safe Drinking Water Act.

(77)   "Upset" means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
       temporary noncompliance with technology based permit effluent limitations
       because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the permittee. An upset does
       not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
       designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
       maintenance, or careless or improper operation.

(78)   "Vessel" means any contrivance used or capable of being used for navigation
       upon water, whether or not capable of self propulsion, including foreign and
       domestic vessels engaged in commerce upon the waters of this State, passenger or
       other cargo carrying vessels, privately owned recreational watercraft or any other
       floating craft.

(79)   "Waste" means sewage, industrial wastes, oil field wastes, and all other liquid,
       gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substances which may pollute or tend to
       pollute any waters of the State.

(80)   "Wasteload allocation (WLA)" means the portion of a receiving water's loading
       capacity attributed to or assigned to point sources of a pollutant.

(81)   "Water Quality Management Plans" for the purpose of these regulations, Water
       Quality Management Plans are those plans developed pursuant to Section 208 of
       the Federal Clean Water Act.



                                       16
(82)   "Water Quality Standards" the criteria and requirements set forth in State of
       Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters.
       Water quality standards are standards composed of designated present and future
       most beneficial uses (classification of waters), the numerical and narrative criteria
       applied to the specific water uses or classification, and the Mississippi
       antidegradation policy.

(83)   "Water quality based effluent limitation (WQBEL)" means an effluent limitation,
       which may be more stringent than a technology based effluent limitation,
       determined as necessary by the Department to ensure that water quality standards
       in a receiving body of water will not be violated.

(84)   "Water quality criteria" are elements of State water quality standards, expressed
       as constituent concentrations, levels, or narrative statements, representing a
       quality of water that supports the present and future most beneficial uses.

(85)   "Waters of the State" means all waters within the jurisdiction of this State,
       including all streams, lakes, ponds, wetlands, impounding reservoirs, marshes,
       watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and
       all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural or
       artificial, situated wholly or partly within or bordering upon the State, and such
       coastal waters as are within the jurisdiction of the State, except lakes, ponds, or
       other surface waters which are wholly landlocked and privately owned, and which
       are not regulated under the Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.1251, et seq..).

(86)   "Weekly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a calendar week,
       calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar week
       divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that week. The
       weekly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of all "daily
       discharges" measured in a calendar week. In computing the geometric mean for
       fecal coliform bacteria, one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of zero. For
       self-monitoring purposes, the value to be reported is the single highest weekly
       average computed during a calendar month.

(87)   "Yearly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a calendar year,
       calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during the calendar year
       divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during the calendar year.
       The yearly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of "daily
       discharges" during the calendar year. In computing the geometric mean for fecal
       coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of zero.

(88)   "Yearly maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" measured over a calendar
       year.

(89)   "Zone of mixing" or "Mixing Zone" constitutes an area whereby physical mixing
       of a wastewater effluent with a receiving water body occurs.

                                        17
B.   Applicability and Required Permits

     (1)   Proposed discharges and/or proposed discharges into POTWs and/or proposed
           facilities from which no discharge occurs.

           Any person proposing a discharge of wastes to waters of the State or proposing a
           treatment works from which no discharge of wastes is designed to occur shall file
           an application in the case of an individual NPDES, UIC, or State permit, at least
           180 days prior to the commencement of the activity or, in the case of NOI for
           coverage under an issued NPDES general permit or coverage under an issued
           State general permit, in accordance with a schedule established in such permit.
           For purposes of NPDES permits (with the exception of Storm Water permits),
           commencement of activity means commencement of discharge. For purposes of
           Storm Water NPDES individual or general permits, State permits or UIC permits,
           commencement of activity means commencement of construction.

     (2)   Existing discharges and/or existing facilities from which no discharge occurs.

           (a)    Any person discharging into waters of the State or to any publicly owned
                  treatment works or operating a treatment works from which no discharge
                  occurs, shall promptly make application for and obtain from the Permit
                  Board a valid NPDES, UIC, or State permit according to procedures and
                  deadlines set forth in these regulations.

           (b)
                  (1)     Any person discharging wastes into surface waters of the State
                          shall apply to the Permit Board for an NPDES permit, or for
                          coverage under an NPDES general permit.

                  (2)     Any person discharging wastes or other fluids into underground
                          waters of the State through the use of an injection well shall apply
                          to the Permit Board for a UIC permit, unless otherwise exempted
                          under Rule 1.1.B.

                  (3)     Any person operating a treatment works from which no discharge
                          of wastes occurs shall apply to the Permit Board for a State permit
                          or for coverage under a State general permit.

                  (4)     Any person discharging wastes into a publicly owned treatment
                          works and which is subject to Federal pretreatment standards (40
                          CFR 403), or which, in the opinion of the Permit Board, would
                          cause interference with the proper operation of the publicly owned
                          treatment works, cause violations of water quality standards by
                          passing through the publicly owned treatment works, or cause
                          contamination of sludge which would limit or prevent the proper

                                           18
                         disposal of the sludge, shall apply to the Permit Board for a State
                         permit.

     (3)   Both existing and proposed discharges and/or existing and proposed facilities
           from which no discharge occurs shall be subject to the permit application and
           special NPDES Program requirements contained in 40 CFR 122.21-.37 as of the
           date the permit is issued, which requirements are incorporated herein and adopted
           by reference

C.   Permits: Preliminary Determinations and Siting Criteria

     (1)   Preliminary Determinations

           (a)    (1)    The Permit Board shall strive to minimize the number of permits
                         issued by encouraging the consolidation (regionalization) of
                         separate treatment facilities where technically and economically
                         feasible.

                  (2)    When an existing wastewater disposal system is available, no
                         permit shall be issued for a new wastewater treatment facility,
                         unless the permit applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
                         the Permit Board that the wastewater cannot or should not, because
                         of economic or other reasons, be connected to the existing sewage
                         system.

                  (3)    Existing wastewater systems treating municipal or domestic wastes
                         shall cease discharge and connect to a regional, municipal or other
                         available sewage system when such system becomes available.
                         The Permit Board, in its discretion, may exclude non-compatible
                         industrial wastes.

           (b)    New connections to an existing wastewater collection and treatment
                  system will not be considered unless the existing system is in substantial
                  compliance with permit conditions.

           (c)    No permit for the construction or operation of a wastewater treatment
                  facility shall be issued unless the applicant can demonstrate to the
                  satisfaction of the Permit Board that a qualified operator will be made
                  available to operate and maintain the facility.

           (d)    All wastewater treatment facilities must be inaccessible to the general
                  public and be identified as a waste treatment facility by signs posted in a
                  reasonable manner.

           (e)    The Permit Board may deny a permit if it determines that the discharge
                  from the proposed facility will adversely affect use of the receiving

                                          19
             waters, by unreasonably degrading the same, or will adversely affect
             public health, welfare or the environment. In making this determination,
             the Permit Board shall consider the actual use and environs of the
             receiving waters as well as the effect, if any, of the proposed discharge of
             effluent upon the actual water quality of the receiving waters.

      (f)    No permit application will be processed unless the applicant controls the
             real property upon which the facility is located. The applicant may
             demonstrate control through ownership, lease, eminent domain, easement,
             license, and/or contract.

      (g)    It is the responsibility of the applicant/permittee to obtain all other
             approvals, permits, clearances, easements and/or agreements, for the
             construction and operation of the facility, which may be required.

      (h)    The Permit Board, at its discretion, may require that all environmental
             permits, and all permit modifications which require public notice, be
             prepared for a common public notice and that no permit and/or permit
             modification will be acted on individually.

(2)   Siting Criteria

      Unless otherwise provided in these regulations or in a general permit, no permit
      for a new waste treatment facility, or an expansion to an existing facility, will be
      issued unless the facility can comply with the following buffer zone requirements.
      A facility which has previously satisfied buffer zone requirements shall not be
      required to reestablish compliance with those requirements at the reissuance,
      modification or transference of the permit or at reconstruction/replacement of the
      facility, unless the facility proposes expansion.

      (a)    The treatment works, unless addressed otherwise in this regulation, must
             be at least 150 feet from property not owned and/or controlled by the
             applicant except when the property is zoned for commercial or industrial
             use, or when the property, dwelling, or commercial establishment is used
             for commercial or industrial use. The Permit Board may exclude from
             these requirements treatment units for short-term remediation.

      (b)    Domestic wastewater treatment facilities of 1500 gallons per day (gpd) or
             less must be installed at least ten (10) feet from adjoining property lines.
             The Permit Board, at its discretion, may require a buffer zone of greater
             than 10 feet depending upon the type of treatment and site specific
             information.

      (c)    Any facility for the treatment or disposal of animal wastes or the housing
             of a concentrated and confined animal growing operation (excluding any
             facility for the housing of broiler pullets, broiler breeders and broilers in a

                                       20
      poultry operation that generates dry litter or waste unless such facility has
      a continuous overflow watering system) must be at least 1000 feet from
      the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling or
      commercial establishment and at least 300 feet from the nearest adjoining
      property line. Any facility for the housing of broiler pullets, broiler
      breeders and broilers in a poultry operation that generates dry litter or
      waste constructed, significantly enlarged or altered after February 24,
      1994 (date of adoption of these regulations) must be at least 600 feet from
      the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling or
      commercial establishment and at least 150 feet from the nearest adjoining
      property line. In the event new treatment facilities are proposed for an
      existing confined animal operation, the Permit Board will consider
      requests for exceptions to, or variances from, the buffer zone
      requirements, and the requirements of Rule 1.1.1.C.2.e., based upon such
      factors as the relative distances and age of the existing operation.

(d)   Land application of animal waste (excluding dry litter waste) must be at
      least 50 feet from the nearest adjoining property line and at least 300 feet
      from the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling. Land
      application of dry litter waste must be at least 25 feet from the nearest
      adjoining property line and at least 150 feet from the nearest non-owned
      (by the applicant) occupied dwelling.

(e)   The Permit Board may consider a buffer zone of less than 150 feet for
      subsurface treated effluent disposal.

(f)   In the event the buffer zone requirements specified in Rule 1.1.1.C.2.a and
      c. above cannot be met; the Permit Board will consider requests for
      exceptions to, or variances from, such requirements upon sufficient proof
      that affected property owners within the subject buffer zone have had
      timely and sufficient notice of the proposed facility. The buffer zone
      requirement may be waived by written permission issued by the affected
      property owners. Any comments received as a result of such notice shall
      be considered prior to action upon any request for exceptions to, or
      variances from, the buffer zone requirements. At all times a minimum 10
      foot buffer zone is required. The Permit Board may consider the
      following factors in deciding whether or not a variance and/or exception
      should be granted:

      (1)    whether a person and/or facility moves within the buffer zone of a
             treatment facility, previously approved by the Permit Board;

      (2)    the type of land disposal techniques employed, including, but not
             limited to, subsurface injection of wastes, and the utilization of
             spray irrigation; and/or



                               21
                      (3)    such other factors as the Permit Board deems appropriate.

       (3)    Antidegradation

       All applicants for new or expanding NPDES permitted discharges to state waters shall
       comply with MDEQ’s Antidegradation Policy and submit an Antidegradation Report as
       part of the application or reapplication process in compliance with MDEQ’s
       Antidegradation Implementation Methods in Exhibit E.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.2 Permit Applications.

A.     Permits: Applications, Filing Procedures and Requirements

       (1)    All applications for permits shall be on forms prescribed by the Commission
              and/or the Permit Board. In addition to those forms, the Department may require
              an applicant to provide a summary of its compliance history and/or present
              evidence of its financial capability and responsibility.

       (2)    A person discharging waste from more than one location shall file a separate
              application for each discharge location. A single application may be filed for
              multiple outfalls discharging from a single location, provided the discharge from
              each outfall is described separately in the application.

       (3)    The application shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in
              40 CFR 122.21-.37, 122.44, 124.3(a) and (d) as of the date the permit application
              is deemed complete, which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference, and
              in accordance with these regulations.

B.     Permits: Application Exemptions

A person discharging or proposing to discharge the following types of wastes shall not be
required to apply for a permit from the Permit Board pursuant to this regulation:

       (1)    human sewage from vessels;

       (2)    water, gas and other materials injected into a well to facilitate production of oil or
              gas, or fluids derived in association with oil or gas production and disposal
              thereof in a well where authorized by the State Supervisor of the Oil and Gas
              Board (this includes wastes from gas plants which are an integral part of
              production operations, unless those wastes are classified as hazardous wastes, and
              wastes generated from enhanced recovery operations and hydrocarbon storage
              facilities);




                                               22
     (3)   wastes or other fluids authorized for injection into a Class V well as defined in 40
           CFR 144 and 146;

     (4)   storm sewers exempted under 40 CFR 122.26 and not connected to wastewater
           treatment works, unless a particular storm water discharge has been identified by
           the Executive Director or the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) as
           contributing to a violation of a water quality standard or as a significant
           contributor of pollutants to the waters of the state;

     (5)   any introduction of pollutants from non-point-source agricultural and silviculture
           activities, including storm water runoff from orchards, cultivated crops, pastures,
           range lands and forest lands and return flows from irrigated agriculture. The
           following facilities are excluded from this exemption:           discharges from
           concentrated animal feeding operations set forth in 40 CFR 122.23 and Rule
           1.1.4.C. of these regulations, discharges from concentrated aquatic animal
           production facilities as defined in 40 CFR 122.24, discharges into aquaculture
           projects as defined in 40 CFR 122.25, discharges from silviculture point sources
           as defined in 40 CFR 122.27, and any other facility and/or discharge required by
           these regulations to obtain a permit;

     (6)   the application of pesticides consistent with all relevant requirements of FIFRA in
           accordance with 40 CFR 122.3(h), which is incorporated herein and adopted by
           reference.

C.   Permit Applications and Other Forms: Valid Signature

     (1)   An NOI, UIC, individual NPDES permit application form or State permit
           application form submitted to the Permit Board pursuant to this regulation shall be
           signed as follows:

           (a)    for a corporation, by a responsible corporate officer, as defined in 40 CFR
                  122.22(a)(l);

           (b)    for a partnership, by a general partner;

           (c)    for a sole proprietorship, by the proprietor;

           (d)    for a municipal, state or other public facility, by either a principal
                  executive officer, the mayor, or ranking elected official.

     (2)   All reports required by permits, and other information requested by the Permit
           Board shall be signed by a person described in Rule 1.1.2.C., or by a duly
           authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized
           representative when:




                                            23
           (a)    the authorization is made in writing by a person described in Rule
                  1.1.2.C.1.,

           (b)    the authorization specifies either an individual or a position having
                  responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity
                  including, but not limited to, the position of plant manager, operator of a
                  well or a well field, superintendent, position of equivalent responsibility,
                  or an individual or position having overall responsibility for
                  environmental matters for the company (a duly authorized representative
                  may be either a specified individual or position) and,

           (c)    the written authorization is submitted to the Permit Board.

D.   Application Requirements Regarding Toxicity for Existing Discharges

     (1)   Except as provided in Rule 1.1.2.D.3 below, the following permittees shall submit
           Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) test results as part of their application for renewal
           of their NPDES permits:

           (a)    all major municipal facilities;

           (b)    all municipal facilities which receive a discharge from any industry
                  category identified in 40 CFR Part 403, Appendix C as of the date the
                  permit application is deemed complete which is incorporated herein and
                  adopted by reference;

           (c)    any facility with any historical failure of WET testing;

           (d)    any facility with WET testing requirements in a current permit;

           (e)    all industrial and municipal facilities believed to be causing toxicity to the
                  instream aquatic biota, and/or believed to have the potential to discharge
                  toxics in toxic amounts considering factors which follow:

                  (1)     the variability of the pollutants or pollutant parameters in the
                          facility effluent (based on chemical-specific information, the type
                          of treatment facility, and types of industrial contributors);

                  (2)     the dilution of the effluent in the receiving water (ratio of effluent
                          flow to receiving stream flow);

                  (3)     existing controls on point or nonpoint sources, including total
                          maximum daily load calculations for the water body segment and
                          the relative contribution of the POTW;




                                            24
             (4)     receiving stream characteristics, including possible or known water
                     quality impairment, receiving stream classification, and whether
                     the facility discharges to a coastal water or a water designated as
                     an outstanding natural resource; and

             (5)     other considerations (including but not limited to the history of
                     toxic impact and compliance problems of the POTW), which the
                     Permit Board determines could cause or contribute to adverse
                     water quality impacts.

(2)   The Permit Board may exempt a facility from the application WET testing
      requirements of Rule 1.1.2.D.1 of this chapter if it satisfies one or more of the
      conditions that follow:

      (a)    the Department may delay effluent characterization for whole effluent
             toxicity for existing facilities that are under a compliance schedule in a
             permit or administrative order to implement technology-based controls or
             to achieve compliance with water quality-based effluent limits;

      (b)    once-through non-contact cooling water without additives;

      (c)    dewatering of sand or gravel mining operations;

      (d)    sump pump discharges of uncontaminated groundwater or rainwater only;

      (e)    construction dewatering only;

      (f)    discharges from fish hatcheries and other aquaculture;

      (g)    non-POTW facilities discharging only treated domestic wastewater, unless
             the Department determines the facility has the potential for toxicity;

      (h)    is a seafood processor; or

      (i)    the Department determines that the facility's discharge does not have the
             potential to contain toxics in toxic amounts.

(3)   Facilities required under Rule 1.1.2.D.1 or 2. to conduct toxicity testing shall use
      Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine
      Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027), or most recent edition for acute
      tests and Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents
      and Receiving Waters to Fresh water Organisms, (EPA/600/4-89/001) or most
      recent edition for chronic tests. Such testing must be conducted subsequent to the
      most recent NPDES permit reissuance or permit modification under40 CFR
      122.62(a), whichever occurs later.



                                       25
       (4)    The frequency of whole effluent toxicity testing for an application is defined in
              Rule 1.2.6 of these regulations.

E.     Misrepresentation of Information on Application Forms and Other Reports

       (1)    Any person making application for any permit, filing any record, report, or other
              document pursuant to a regulation of the Commission, shall certify that all
              information contained in such document is true, based upon information provided
              by responsible individuals.

       (2)    Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
              certification in any application, record, report, or other documents filed with the
              Permit Board pursuant to the State law or the rules and regulations pursuant to
              such law, shall be subject to the penalties provided for in the Code for perjury or
              false statements.

       (3)    In the event the permittee becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts
              in a permit application, or in any report to the Department or Permit Board, it
              shall promptly submit such facts or information.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.3 Procedural Aspects of Permit Issuance.

A.    Permits: Preliminary Determinations, Draft Permits, Certificates of Coverage and
Variances

       (1)    When the Executive Director or his/her authorized representative is satisfied that
              the application is complete, a preliminary determination with regard to the
              application will be made, including a proposed determination to issue or deny a
              State, UIC, NPDES permit or coverage under an issued NPDES general permit or
              under an issued State general permit for the discharge described in the
              application.

       (2)    If the proposed determination is to grant coverage under an issued NPDES
              general permit or under an issued State general permit, the Permit Board or its
              designee shall issue a certificate of coverage to the applicant.

       (3)    If the proposed determination is to issue a State, UIC, or NPDES permit,
              additional preliminary determinations shall be made as follows:

              (a)     proposed effluent limitations shall be identified for the constituents
                      proposed to be limited with a supporting rationale (individual storm water
                      permit rationales shall follow the procedures set forth in Rule 1.2.6.E of
                      these regulations);



                                               26
           (b)    a proposed schedule of compliance for meeting the proposed effluent
                  limitations, including interim dates and requirements, if applicable, shall
                  be established (schedules of compliance are impermissible for water
                  quality based limitations, except when new, more stringent standards are
                  adopted); and

           (c)    a description of any other proposed restrictions or other conditions
                  determined necessary or appropriate by the Executive Director or his/her
                  authorized representative which will significantly affect the discharge.

     (4)   The Executive Director or his/her authorized representative shall prepare a draft
           permit based upon the preliminary determinations made pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.A.
           and C

           The draft permit shall be mailed to the applicant for comment, except in the case
           of an NPDES general permit or a State general permit. In the case of an NPDES
           or UIC permit, the draft permit shall be mailed to the Regional Administrator (or
           his/her designee) before public notice of the draft NPDES or UIC permit. The
           Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) may waive his right to comment on
           draft permits, except for general permits.

     (5)   Any request for variances as defined in 40 CFR 124.62(a) must be submitted
           pursuant to 40 CFR 124.62(e), which is incorporated herein and adopted by
           reference.

     (6)   The draft permit requirements contained in 40 CFR 124.6(a), (c), (d), and (e) as of
           the date the application is deemed complete are incorporated herein and adopted
           by reference with respect to NPDES permits and UIC permits.

B.   Public Notice of Draft Permits and Preliminary Determinations

     (1)   The Executive Director or his/her authorized representative shall prepare a public
           notice of a draft NPDES or UIC permit, or a State permit as deemed appropriate
           by the Permit Board. The notice shall be made in accordance with public notice
           methods contained in 40 CFR, 124.l0(c) and (d) which are incorporated herein
           and adopted by reference.

     (2)   A copy of the notice shall be available at the Department office in Jackson, MS.
           Any person may forward a written request for a copy of the notice, which will be
           mailed to him.

C.   Public Notice and Fact Sheets

     (1)   Public Notice: Contents and Information




                                           27
      A public notice of a draft State, UIC, or NPDES permit shall contain the
      following:

      (a)    the date of posting or publication of the public notice;

      (b)    the address and telephone number of the Department office in Jackson;

      (c)    the name and address of the applicant, except in the case of a draft NPDES
             general permit or a draft State general permit;

      (d)    a concise description of the activities and operations which result in the
             discharge identified in the draft permit;

      (e)    the name of the receiving waters into which the discharge is being made or
             is proposed to be made, including the location of the proposed or existing
             discharge point (in the case of general permits, a description of
             geographical area and/or allowable receiving waters);

      (f)    a concise description of the procedures for the formulation of the final
             determinations;

      (g)    the address and telephone number of the Department office where
             additional information on the draft permit, copies of the draft permit and
             fact sheets may be obtained or any other applicable forms and related
             documents may be inspected or copied; and

      (h)    for new or expanding NPDES permitted discharges; a statement
             concerning antidegradation.

(2)   Public Notice: Comment Period for Interested Persons

      (a)    Within thirty (30) days following the date of posting or publication of the
             public notice pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.B., any interested person may submit
             in writing his views on the draft permit. The time for public comment
             may be extended by the Permit Board if the Board determines that an
             extension of time is necessary or appropriate to facilitate additional public
             comment.

      (b)    All views submitted to the Permit Board in writing by interested persons
             during the comment period shall be retained and considered in the
             formulation of final determinations on the draft permit by the Permit
             Board.

(3)   Fact Sheets on Draft Permits




                                       28
      (a)    A fact sheet shall be prepared for every NPDES or UIC permit required to
             have a fact sheet under 40 CFR 124.8(a).

      (b)    The Executive Director or his/her designee may prepare a fact sheet for
             any existing or proposed discharge if he deems the discharge to be of
             significant importance to warrant additional information for public
             comment.

      (c)    A copy of the fact sheet shall be available at the Department office in
             Jackson, MS. Any person may forward a written request for a copy of the
             fact sheet, which will be mailed to him.

(4)   Fact Sheets on Draft Permits: Contents and Information
      The fact sheet prepared pursuant to Section C.3. of this Rule shall contain, but is
      not limited to, the following information:

      (a)    A brief description of the type of facility or activity which is subject of the
             draft permit.

      (b)    A sketch or detailed description of the location of the existing or proposed
             discharge described in the draft permit. In the case of general permits, a
             description of geographical areas and/or allowable receiving waters shall
             be provided.

      (c)    A brief description of the type and quantity of wastes which are proposed
             to be treated, discharged, or otherwise disposed.

      (d)    A brief summary of the basis for the draft permit conditions including
             references to applicable statutory or regulatory provisions and appropriate
             supporting references to the administrative record required by 40 CFR
             124.9 (for EPA-issued permits).

      (e)    For NPDES draft permits, a concise citation of water quality standards,
             effluent limitations and mixing zones, if applicable, to be applied to the
             discharge and the uses for which the receiving waters have been classified.

      (f)    A complete description of the procedures used by the Permit Board to
             formulate final determinations on the draft permit and the existing or
             proposed discharges, including the 30-day comment period on the public
             notice, procedures for requesting a public hearing on the draft permit
             pursuant to Section G. of this Rule, and other procedures to facilitate
             public comment and participation in the formulation of final
             determinations by the Permit Board.

      (g)    The name and telephone number of a person to contact for further
             information.

                                       29
(5)   Public Notices, Rationales and Fact Sheets: Mailing Lists

      (a)    Any interested person who desires to receive copies of public notices may
             request that his name be placed on a mailing list of the Permit Board for
             the information. The request shall be made in writing to the Department
             office in Jackson, MS, and shall be renewed in December of each year.
             Failure to renew the request is just cause for the Permit Board to remove a
             name from the mailing list.

      (b)    The written request of any interested person to the Permit Board shall
             clearly identify the name of the person, the person's address, and the
             desired documents.

(6)   Public Notices and Fact Sheets: Notice to Other Governmental Agencies

      (a)    When an NPDES or UIC permit with an existing or proposed discharge
             into interstate waters is drafted and the Permit Board determines that the
             discharge may affect the quality of the waters of any other state, the
             Executive Director or his/her duly authorized designee shall notify any
             appropriate state or interstate agency of the discharge and shall transmit to
             the agency a copy of the public notice. Additional information will be
             submitted upon request of the state and/or interstate agency.

      (b)    A state or interstate agency given notice pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.C.6 shall
             have 30 days in which to comment on the existing or proposed discharge
             and may submit in writing to the Executive Director or the Regional
             Administrator (or his/her designee) its views and recommendations. The
             views and recommendations submitted to the Executive Director by
             another state or interstate agency may be incorporated into the NPDES or
             UIC permit if determined by the Permit Board to be necessary or
             appropriate. If the views and recommendations are not incorporated into
             the NPDES or UIC permit, the Executive Director shall so notify the
             commenting agency in writing.

      (c)    Upon the posting of a public notice of a draft permit, the Executive
             Director or his/her duly authorized designee shall transmit a copy of the
             notice and fact sheet thereon to all agencies and other entities specified in
             EPA regulations.

      (d)    A copy of a public notice or fact sheet, or both, for a draft NPDES or UIC
             permit shall be sent to any federal, state, or local agency upon written
             request. The provisions of C.6.b. of this Rule, with regard to opportunity
             for comment, shall apply to the federal, state, or local agencies.




                                      30
D.     Draft Permits: Transmittal to Regional Administrator (or his/her designee),
Deficiencies, Additional Data Requirements

       (1)     Upon drafting an NPDES or UIC permit, the Executive Director shall transmit a
               copy thereof and any other applicable related forms to the Regional Administrator
               (or his/her designee) for his review and comment in accordance with 40 CFR
               123.43 and 123.44. Timely written comments submitted to the Executive
               Director by the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) outlining any
               deficiencies or other changes he deems necessary to complete the permit
               application shall be considered by the Permit Board. The Permit Board will not
               issue an NPDES permit over the EPA Regional Administrator's (or his/her
               designee)'s written objection.

       (2)     The Permit Board, in its discretion, or upon request of the Regional Administrator
               (or his/her designee), may request of an applicant any additional information
               deemed necessary to complete or correct deficiencies in the application before
               processing the application or issuing or denying the issuance of a permit. No
               permit application shall be deemed to be complete and ready for disposition by
               the Permit Board until all information requested by the Permit Board has been
               supplied.

       (3)     The Commission may take enforcement action as prescribed by the State law or
               this regulation against any person who fails to either: (1) file a complete
               application; (2) correct deficiencies in the application; or (3) submit any
               additional information requested by the Permit Board.

E.     Public Access to Forms and Commission Files and Records

A copy of a permit application, (except for an NPDES general permit or a State general permit),
public notice, fact sheet, draft permit and other forms relating thereto, including written public
comments not classified as confidential information by the Commission under the provisions of
Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-39 shall be available for public inspection and copying during normal
business hours at the Department office in Jackson, MS. Written request must be provided in
accordance with policies developed by the Commission and must state, specifically, records
proposed for review, date proposed for review, and copying requirements.

F.     Protection of Confidential Information

       (1)     Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. §§49-17-39 and 25-61-1 (The Mississippi Public
               Records Act of 1983), 40 CFR 123.41, and the Commission’s Regulation Title 11,
               Part 1, Chapter 2, Regulations Regarding the Review and Reproduction of Public
               Records, the Permit Board shall make available to the public all information
               contained on any form and all public comments on such information. Effluent
               data and information concerning air or water quality also shall be made available
               to the public. Information that is determined by the Commission to be trade
               secrets shall not be disclosed to the public without prior consent of the source of

                                               31
           such information. When a claim of confidentiality is made by a person in
           accordance with the provisions of Miss. Code Ann. §49-17-39 and Regulation
           Title 11, Part 1, Chapter 2, a recommendation on the questions of confidentiality
           shall be made by the Commission and forwarded to the Regional Administrator
           (or his/her designee) of EPA for his concurrence in such determination of
           confidentiality.

     (2)   A copy of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit application, public notice, fact sheet,
           draft permit and other forms relating thereto, including written public comment
           and other reports, files and information relating to the application not classified as
           confidential information by the Commission pursuant to 1.1.3.F.1.of this Rule,
           shall be available for public inspection and copying during normal business hours
           at the office of the Department in Jackson, Mississippi.

     (3)   Upon determination by the Commission that information submitted by a permit
           applicant is entitled to protection against disclosure as trade secrets, the
           information shall be so labeled and otherwise handled as confidential. Copies of
           the information and a notice of the Commission's action shall be forwarded to the
           Regional Administrator (or his/her designee). In making its determination of the
           entitlement of information to protection as confidential, the Commission shall
           follow the procedure set forth in Regulation Title 11, Part 1, Chapter 2.

G.   Draft Permits: Public Hearings

     (1)   Determinations and Scheduling

           (a)    Within the 30-day comment period or other applicable comment period
                  provided after posting or publishing of a public notice pursuant to B. of
                  this Rule, an applicant, any affected state or interstate agency, the
                  Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) or any other interested
                  person or agency may file a petition with the Permit Board for a public
                  hearing on a draft NPDES or UIC permit. A petition for a public hearing
                  shall indicate the reasons why a hearing is requested, the interest in or
                  relationship of the petitioner to the draft permit or existing or proposed
                  discharge identified therein and shall specifically indicate which portions
                  of the draft permit or NPDES or UIC form or information warrants a
                  public hearing. If the Permit Board determines that a petition states
                  sufficient cause or that there is significant public interest in a draft permit
                  for a public hearing, it may schedule such a hearing.

           (b)    The hearing may be held in the geographical location of the proposed
                  discharge or, in the discretion of the Permit Board, at another appropriate
                  location, and shall be noticed at least thirty (30) days before the hearing.
                  The notice of public hearing shall be transmitted to the applicant and shall
                  be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
                  geographical area of the existing or proposed discharge identified on the

                                            32
                  draft permit and shall be mailed to any person or group upon request.
                  Notice shall be mailed to all persons and governmental agencies which
                  received a copy of the notice or the fact sheet for the draft permit

           (c)    The Permit Board may hold a single public hearing on related groups of
                  draft permits.

     (2)   Public Hearing Notice Contents

           A notice by the Permit Board of a public hearing on a draft permit shall contain in
           addition to the time and place of the hearing:

           (a)    The address and telephone number of the Department office in Jackson,
                  MS, and the name of a contact person.

           (b)    The name and address of the applicant whose draft permit will be
                  considered at the public hearing

           (c)    The name of the waters of the State to which a discharge, as identified on
                  the draft permit, is or will be made and a concise description of the
                  location of the discharge point. In the case of general permits, a
                  description of geographical area and/or allowable receiving waters shall be
                  provided.

           (d)    Reference to the public notice posted and published for the draft permit,
                  including the identification numbers and dates of issuance thereof, if
                  applicable.

           (e)    A brief statement of the purpose of the public hearing.

           (f)    The address or addresses of Department offices where interested persons
                  may inspect or obtain copies of a draft permit, fact sheet or other
                  applicable forms or other reports, files or information relating to a draft
                  permit subject to public hearing, which has not been declared confidential
                  by the Commission.

           (g)    A concise description of the nature of the public hearing and the issues to
                  be heard, with reference to Permit Board rules and procedures to be
                  followed.

H.   Permit Board Determinations, Issuance or Denial of Permits.

     (1)   In considering an application for a permit issuance or transfer, the Permit Board
           may consider the applicant's compliance history, financial capability, financial
           responsibility, or any other aspect of the applicant's history it deems necessary or
           appropriate.

                                            33
       (2)    The Permit Board, in considering the designee's list of denials for coverage under
              a general permit, shall hear any request for reconsideration at the next appropriate
              Permit Board meeting following the issuance of the denial.

       (3)    Following review of preliminary determinations or modifications made by the
              Department pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.B, any comments on the draft permit received
              by the Executive Director from the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee)
              pursuant to Rule 1.3.D., comments received from the public during the 30-day
              comment period following public notice of the draft permit as provided by Rule
              1.1.3.C, comments received from the applicant pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.A, other
              applicable recommendations or determinations and review of the public hearing
              record after any hearing on a draft permit pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.G.1, the Permit
              Board shall make a determination to issue or deny the permit. The provisions of
              40 CFR 124.17 in effect as of the date the permit is issued regarding response to
              comments are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

       (4)    Any appeal from the decision of the Permit Board to issue or deny a permit or
              coverage under an existing permit made pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.H.2 or 3 above, or
              to a condition of a permit issued, shall be in the form of a request for a formal
              evidentiary hearing before the Permit Board, in accordance with and subject to
              Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-29. All such formal hearings shall be transcribed by a
              court reporter, and the testimony given shall be under oath.

       (5)    Upon completion of any formal hearing convened pursuant to Rule 1.3.H.4 above,
              the Permit Board shall make a final decision affirming, reversing, or modifying its
              earlier determination. Any person aggrieved by this final action of the Permit
              Board may perfect an appeal to the Chancery Court upon the record made at the
              formal hearing, pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-29.

       (6)    An NPDES or UIC permit issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law
              and this regulation is a permit for the purposes of State law. A State permit issued
              for pretreatment purposes or for the operation of a treatment works from which no
              discharge occurs, is not an NPDES or UIC permit.

       (7)    NPDES and UIC permits issued by EPA, for which the State has issued
              certification, shall have the same force and effect as if they had been issued by the
              State under this regulation.

I.     Final Permits: Transmittal to EPA

The Executive Director or his/her duly authorized representative shall transmit copies of all
NPDES and UIC permits issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law and this regulation
to the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) immediately following issuance as agreed
upon in the State/EPA Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).



                                               34
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.4 Terms and Conditions Applicable to Permits.

A.    All Permits, Unless Otherwise Noted in These Regulations or in Federal Regulations
Referenced Herein:

       (1)    Prohibitions

              A permit shall not be issued when any of the prohibitions contained in 40 CFR
              122.4 as of the date the permit is issued which is incorporated herein and adopted
              by reference, are applicable.

       (2)    Duty to Comply

              The permit conditions applicable to all permits contained in 40 CFR 122.41(a)(l),
              144.51 and 144.52 as of the date the permit is issued are incorporated herein and
              adopted by reference.

       (3)    Permit Conditions and Limitations

              The Permit Board shall establish permit conditions and limitations pursuant to 40
              CFR 122.43 and 122.44 as of the date the permit is issued, which sections are
              incorporated herein and adopted by reference. The Permit board shall also require
              additional or more stringent requirements than promulgated effluent limitations
              guidelines or standards under Sections 301, 304, 306, 307, 318, and 405 of the
              Federal Act necessary to:

              (a)     Achieve water quality standards established under Section 303 of the
                      Federal Act, including State narrative criteria for water quality.

                      (1)    Limitations must control all pollutants or pollutant parameters
                             (either conventional, non-conventional, or toxic pollutants) which
                             the Permit Board determines are or may be discharged at a level
                             which will cause, have the reasonable potential to cause, or
                             contribute to an excursion from any State water quality standard,
                             including State narrative criteria for water quality. The permittee
                             may utilize testing procedures for the analysis of pollutants set
                             forth in 40 CFR 122, 136, 141, 143, 430, 455, 465, and 503 which
                             are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

                      (2)    When determining whether a discharge causes, has the reasonable
                             potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion from a
                             narrative or numeric criteria within a State water quality standard,
                             the Permit Board shall use procedures which account for existing
                             controls on point and nonpoint sources of pollution, the variability

                                              35
      of the pollutant or pollutant parameter in the effluent, the
      sensitivity of the species to toxicity testing (when evaluating whole
      effluent toxicity), and where appropriate, the dilution of the
      effluent in the receiving water.

(3)   When the Permit Board determines, using the procedures in
      A.3.a.(2) of this Rule, that a discharge causes, has the reasonable
      potential to cause, or contributes to an instream excursion above
      the allowable ambient concentration of a State numeric criteria
      within a State water quality standard for an individual pollutant,
      the permit must contain effluent limits for that pollutant.

(4)   When the Permit Board determines, using the procedures in
      A.3.a.(2) of this Rule, that a discharge causes, has the reasonable
      potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion above
      the numeric criterion for whole effluent toxicity, the permit must
      contain effluent limits for whole effluent toxicity.

(5)   Except as provided in this subparagraph, when the Permit Board
      determines, using the procedures in A.3.a.(2) of this Rule, toxicity
      testing data, or other information, that a discharge causes, has the
      reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an instream
      excursion above a narrative criterion within an applicable State
      water quality standard, the permit must contain effluent limits for
      whole effluent toxicity. Limits on whole effluent toxicity are not
      necessary where the Permit Board demonstrates in the fact sheet or
      statement of basis of the NPDES permit, using the procedures in
      A.3.a.(2) of this Rule, that chemical-specific limits for the effluent
      are sufficient to attain and maintain applicable numeric and
      narrative State water quality standards.

(6)   Where the State has not established a water quality criterion for a
      specific chemical pollutant that is present in an effluent at a
      concentration that causes, has the reasonable potential to cause, or
      contributes to an excursion above a narrative criterion within an
      applicable State water quality standard, the Permit Board must
      establish effluent limits using one or more of the following.

      (i)    Establish effluent limits using a calculated numeric water
             quality criterion for the pollutant which the Permit Board
             demonstrates will attain and maintain applicable narrative
             water quality criteria and will fully protect the designated
             use. Such a criterion may be derived using a proposed
             State criterion, or an explicit State policy or regulation
             interpreting its narrative water quality criterion,
             supplemented with other relevant information which may

                        36
              include; EPA's Water Quality Standards Handbook, 2nd
              Edition September 1993, risk assessment data, exposure
              data, information about the pollutant from the Food and
              Drug Administration, and current EPA criteria documents.

      (ii)    Establish effluent limits on a case-by-case basis, using
              EPA's water quality criteria, published under Section
              307(a) of the Federal Act, supplemented where necessary
              by other relevant information.

      (iii)   Establish effluent limitations on an indicator parameter for
              the pollutant of concern, provided:

              (A)    the permit identifies which pollutants are intended
                     to be controlled by the use of the effluent limitation;

              (B)    the fact sheet required by 40 CFR 124.56 sets forth
                     the basis for the limit, including a finding that
                     compliance with the effluent limit on the indicator
                     parameter will result in controls on the pollutant of
                     concern which are sufficient to attain and maintain
                     applicable water quality standards;

              (C)    the permit requires all effluent and ambient
                     monitoring necessary to show that during the term
                     of the permit the limit on the indicator parameter
                     continues to attain and maintain applicable water
                     quality standards; and

              (D)    the permit contains a reopener clause allowing the
                     Permit Board to modify or revoke and reissue the
                     permit if the limits on the indicator parameter no
                     longer attain and maintain applicable water quality
                     standards.

(7)   When developing water quality based effluent limits under this
      paragraph the Permit Board shall ensure that:

      (i)     the level of water quality to be achieved by limits on point
              sources established under this paragraph is derived from,
              and complies with all applicable water quality standards;
              and

      (ii)    effluent limits developed to protect a narrative water
              quality criterion, a numeric water quality criterion, or both,
              are consistent with the assumptions and requirements of

                        37
                           any available wasteload allocation for the discharge
                           prepared by the State and approved by EPA pursuant to 40
                           CFR 130.7.

      (b)   Attain or maintain a specified water quality through water quality related
            effluent limits established under section 302 of the Federal Act;

      (c)   Conform to the conditions of a State certification under section 401 of the
            Federal Act that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 124.53 when EPA is
            the permitting authority. If a State certification is stayed by a court of
            competent jurisdiction or an appropriate State board or agency, EPA shall
            notify the State that the agency will deem certification waived unless a
            finally effective State certification is received within sixty days from the
            date of the notice. If the State does not forward a finally effective
            certification within the sixty day period, EPA shall include conditions in
            the permit that may be necessary to meet EPA's obligation under section
            301(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Act;

      (d)   Conform to applicable water quality requirements under Section 401(a)(2)
            of the Federal Act when the discharge affects a state other than the
            certifying state;

      (e)   Incorporate any more stringent limitations, treatment standards, or
            schedule of compliance requirements established under federal or State
            law or regulations in accordance with section 301(b)(1)(C) of the Federal
            Act;

      (f)   Ensure consistency with the requirements of a Water Quality Management
            plan approved by EPA under Section 208(b) of the Federal Act;

      (g)   Incorporate Section 403(c) criteria under part 125, subpart M, for ocean
            discharges;

      (h)   Incorporate alternative effluent limitations or standards where warranted
            by "fundamentally different factors", under 40 CFR part 125, D;

      (i)   Incorporate any other appropriate requirements, conditions, or limitations
            (other than effluent limitations) into a new source permit to the extent
            allowed by the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321, et
            seq. and Section 511 of the Federal Act, when EPA is the permit issuing
            authority. (See 40 CFR 122.29(c)).

(4)   When applicable, a permit issued by the Permit Board shall contain terms and
      conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Permit Board to insure
      compliance with at least the following effluent standards and limitations:



                                     38
      (a)    Effluent limitations for publicly owned treatment works and other
             discharges, including indirect discharges, when promulgated by the
             Administrator of EPA pursuant to Sections 204(b), 301, 302, 303, and 307
             of the Federal Act, in accordance with and subject to the date of
             compliance prescribed therein, if the limitations are not in conflict with the
             State law or the Federal Act.

      (b)    Standards of performance when promulgated by the Administrator of
             EPA, for new sources within the categories defined in Section 306 of the
             Federal Act.

      (c)    If the permit is for a discharge from a publicly owned treatment works,
             standards of performance, pretreatment standards or effluent limitations or
             prohibitions when promulgated by the Administrator of EPA for toxic
             substances, monitoring and charges pursuant to Sections 204(b), 307, and
             308 of the Federal Act. Toxicity screening and limitations shall be
             established in accordance with Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.

      (d)    Any other more stringent limitation deemed necessary by the Permit
             Board to meet applicable water quality standards, treatment standards or
             schedules of compliance established pursuant to the State law or
             regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, or necessary to meet other
             Federal law or regulations enacted or promulgated subsequent to this
             regulation, or required to meet any applicable water quality standards
             including applicable requirements necessary to meet Total Maximum
             Daily Loads established by and incorporated into the State's continuing
             planning process required pursuant to Section 303 of the Federal Act.

      (e)    The conditions regarding reissued permits contained in 40 CFR 122.44(l)
             are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

      (f)    The effluent limitations promulgated by EPA pursuant to Sections 301,
             302, 303, 306, and 307 of the Federal Act shall become immediately
             enforceable as if a duly promulgated regulation of the Commission.

(5)   Consistency with Water Quality Standards

      When a State or an NPDES permit issued by the Permit Board contains any
      effluent standards or limitations set forth in 1.1.4.A.3. and 4. of this Rule, the
      Permit Board shall verify that the discharge authorized by the issued permit will
      not violate applicable water quality standards. When a permit contains additional
      effluent limitations based upon applicable water quality standards, the Permit
      Board staff shall prepare a wasteload allocation ensuring that the discharge
      authorized by the issued permit is consistent with applicable water quality
      standards, 40 CFR 122.44(a)-(d) (which are incorporated herein and adopted by
      reference) and Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.

                                      39
(6)   Requirements to Comply with Plans

      The Permit Board, if it deems necessary, may impose any further requirements
      under the terms and conditions of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit to comply with
      an area-wide waste treatment management plan, or amendments thereto, prepared
      by a management agency pursuant to Section 208(b) of the Federal Act, or a
      facilities plan prepared in accordance with Title II or Title VI of the Federal Act.

(7)   Interim Requirements

      Prior to promulgation of regulations by the Administrator of EPA relating to
      applicable effluent standards or limitations or standards of performance set forth
      in Rule 1.1.4.A.3, the Permit Board may impose any standard, limitation or
      condition within the State or NPDES permit to ensure compliance with the State
      law and the Federal Act.

(8)   Calculating and Determining Permit Limits

      The permit shall contain conditions calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 122.45,
      which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. When issuing a State,
      UIC, or NPDES permit pursuant to the State law and this regulation, the Permit
      Board shall specify therein, where applicable, average and maximum daily
      quantitative limitations for the level of wastewater constituents in the authorized
      discharge in terms of weight and, if appropriate, average or maximum
      concentration limits.

(9)   Schedules of Compliance

      (a)    A person issued a State, UIC, or NPDES permit by the Permit Board
             pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.H and who is not in compliance with applicable
             effluent standards and limitations or other requirements contained therein
             at the time the permit is issued, shall be required to achieve compliance
             within a period of time as set forth by the Permit Board, with effluent
             standards and limitations, with water quality standards, or with specific
             requirements or conditions set by the Permit Board. The Permit Board
             shall require compliance with terms and conditions of the permit in the
             shortest reasonable period of time. For UIC permits, this time shall not
             exceed three (3) years.

      (b)    If a time schedule for compliance specified in a State, UIC, or NPDES
             permit which is established by the Permit Board pursuant to Rule
             1.1.4.A.9.a above exceeds one year, the time schedule shall provide for
             interim target dates for compliance with selected terms and conditions of
             the permit. Each interim target date specified in the permit shall not
             exceed one year.

                                       40
       (c)    A discharger who fails or refuses to comply with either an interim or final
              date of compliance specified in a State, UIC, or NPDES permit may be
              deemed by the Commission to be in violation of the permit and may be
              subject to enforcement action prescribed in the State law or this regulation.

       (d)    Unless otherwise provided in these regulations, the total length of time for
              the following to be accomplished shall not exceed three years:

              (1)    the determination that a particular limit is needed,

              (2)    the length of a compliance schedule to achieve that limit, and

              (3)    any instream or other study to determine an alternative limit or
                     water quality criterion

       (e)    An NPDES permit may, when appropriate, specify a schedule of
              compliance leading to compliance with the Federal Act and regulations in
              accordance with 40 CFR 122.47 which is incorporated herein and adopted
              by reference.

(10)   Compliance Schedule Reports by Dischargers

       Within 14 days after either an interim or final date of compliance specified in a
       State, UIC, or NPDES permit, a permittee shall provide the Permit Board with
       written notice of his compliance or noncompliance with the requirements or
       conditions specified to be completed by that date. Failure to submit the written
       notice to the Permit Board shall be considered a violation of the compliance
       requirements of the permit, for which the Commission may be asked to take
       enforcement action.

(11)   Closure Requirements

       When issuing a State or NPDES permit pursuant to the State law and this
       regulation, the Permit Board shall require submittal of a Closure Plan.

       (a)    no later than 90 days prior to abandonment and

       (b)    within 90 days of decommissioning the treatment works.
              The Closure Plan shall address how and when all manufactured products,
              by-products, raw materials, stored chemicals, and solid and liquid waste
              and residues will be removed from the premises so that no potential
              environmental hazard to the waters of the State will be presented.

(12)   Spill Prevention and Best Management Plans



                                       41
       (a)    For facilities which have bulk storage of materials (including but not
              limited to, all raw, finished and/or waste material), the permit shall contain
              terms and conditions necessary to prevent the potential release of these
              materials and storm water contaminated with these materials. Such
              requirements may include the requirements for a Spill Prevention Control
              and Countermeasures Plan or a Best Management Plan.                For those
              facilities that have above ground bulk storage not subject to Hazardous
              Waste Management Regulations or 40 CFR 112 (Oil Pollution Prevention)
              regulations, secondary containment or equivalent protective measures
              must be provided for storage of materials and/or liquids with chronic or
              acute potential for pollution impact on waters of the State regardless of
              whether it is a raw material, product, waste, or by-product. Secondary
              containment requirements as found in 40 CFR 112 (for petroleum
              products), which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference, shall be
              utilized for these non-petroleum facilities unless an equivalent amount of
              protection may be provided by measures including trenches or waterways
              which would conduct any tank releases to a permitted treatment system or
              sufficient equalization or treatment capacity needed to prevent
              chronic/acute pollution impact.

       (b)   Tank Systems with High Potential for Pollution Impact.

              The Permit Board may require permits to contain secondary containment
              or other engineering practices for tank systems with chronic or acute
              potential for pollution impact on waters of the State.

       (c)    The Permit Board may require the development of, and approval of, Best
              Management Practices Plans addressing any activity at a facility which
              may impact the environment or compliance with the permit.

       (d)    Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the Permit Board
              may require a facility that has above ground storage of liquids and/or
              materials with the potential to cause chronic or acute pollution impact on
              waters of the State (which are not subject to Hazardous Waste
              Management Regulations or 40 CFR 112 [Oil Pollution Prevention]
              regulations) to provide either secondary containment or demonstrate an
              equivalent amount of protection from discharge of pollutants in amounts
              which have the potential to cause chronic or acute pollution impact if such
              secondary measures are necessary to protect human health, welfare or the
              environment.

(l3)   Compliance with Permit Conditions

       All discharges authorized by the permit shall be consistent with the terms and
       conditions of the permit and the permittee shall make all reasonable efforts to
       meet any interim or final dates for compliance specified therein.

                                        42
(14)   Facility Expansion and/or Modification

       Any facility expansion, production increases, process modifications, changes in
       discharge volume or location or other changes in operations or conditions of the
       permittee which may result in a new or increased discharge of waste, shall be
       reported to the Permit Board by submission of a new application for a permit
       pursuant to Rule 1.1.2.A., or if the discharge does not violate effluent limitations
       specified in the permit, by submitting to the Permit Board a notice of a new or
       increased discharge.

(15)   Reporting Requirements

       (a)    Planned changes. The permittee shall give notice to the Permit Board as
              soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions, including
              but not limited to, a change of operation to the permitted facility. Notice
              is required in the circumstances that follow:

              (1)     The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of
                      the criteria for determining whether the facility is a new source in
                      40 CFR 122.29(b);

              (2)     The alteration or addition could significantly change the nature or
                      increase the quantity of pollutants discharged. This notification
                      applies to pollutants which are not subject to either effluent
                      limitations in the permit or notification requirements under 40 CFR
                      122.42(a)(1); or

              (3)     The alteration or addition results in a significant change in the
                      permittee's sludge use or disposal practices, and such alteration,
                      addition, or change may justify the application of permit conditions
                      that are different from or absent in the existing permit, including
                      notification of additional use or disposal sites not reported during
                      the permit application process or not reported pursuant to an
                      approved land application plan.

       (b)    Anticipated noncompliance. The permittee shall give advance notice to
              the Permit Board of any planned changes in the permitted facility or
              activity which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements.

       (c)    Monitoring reports. Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals
              specified in the permit.

              (1)     Monitoring results must be reported on a Discharge Monitoring
                      Report (DMR) and/or forms provided or specified by the Permit



                                        43
                     Board for reporting results of monitoring of sludge use or disposal
                     practices.

              (2)    If the permittee monitors any pollutant as prescribed in the permit
                     more frequently than required by the permit using test procedures
                     approved under 40 CFR Part 136 or, in the case of sludge use or
                     disposal, approved under 40 CFR Part 136 unless otherwise
                     specified in 40 CFR Part 503, or as specified in the permit, the
                     results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculation and
                     reporting of the data submitted in the DMR or sludge reporting
                     form specified by the Permit Board.

              (3)    Calculations for all limitations which require averaging of
                     measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean unless otherwise
                     specified by the Permit Board in the permit.

(16)   Duty to Provide Information

       The permittee shall furnish to the Permit Board, within a reasonable time, any
       information which the Permit Board may request to determine whether cause
       exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to
       determine compliance with the permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the
       Permit Board upon request, copies of records required to be kept by the permit.

(17)   Inspection and Entry

       The permittee shall allow any authorized Commission representative to enter
       upon the permittee's premises at any reasonable time, to have access to and copy
       any applicable records, to inspect process facilities, treatment works, monitoring
       methods or equipment or to take samples, as authorized by Section 49-17-29 of
       the Code. In the event of investigation during an emergency response action, a
       reasonable time shall be any time of the day or night. Follow-up investigations
       subsequent to the conclusion of the emergency event shall be conducted at
       reasonable times.

(18)   Proper Operation, Maintenance and Replacement

       The permittee shall at all times properly operate, maintain, and when necessary,
       promptly replace all facilities and systems of collection, treatment and control
       (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to
       achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper operation and
       maintenance includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality
       assurance procedures. Proper replacement includes maintaining an adequate
       inventory of replacement equipment and parts for prompt replacement when
       necessary to maintain continuous collection and treatment of wastewater. This
       provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar

                                       44
       systems which are installed by a permittee only when the operation is necessary to
       achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit. The Permit Board may
       require regular reporting of internal operational and maintenance parameters
       necessary to confirm proper operation of a waste treatment system.

(19)   Duty to Mitigate

       The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge
       or sludge use or disposal in violation of the permit.

(20)   Bypass

       The terms and conditions regarding bypass contained in 40 CFR 122.41(m) are
       incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(21)   Removed Substances

       Solids, sludges, filter backwash, or other residuals removed in the course of
       treatment or control of wastewaters shall be disposed of in a manner such as to
       prevent such materials from entering state waters and in a manner consistent with
       the Mississippi Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Federal Resource Conservation and
       Recovery Act, and the Mississippi Water Pollution Control Act.

(22)   Power Failure

       If electric power is required, in order to maintain compliance with the conditions
       and prohibitions of the permit, the permittee shall either:

       (a)      Provide an alternative power source to operate the wastewater control
                facilities; or, if such alternative power source is not in existence and no
                date for its implementation appears in the permit,

       (b)      Halt, reduce, or otherwise control production and/or all wastewater flows
                upon reduction, loss, or failure of the primary source of power to the
                wastewater control facilities.

(23)   Oil and Hazardous Substance Liability

       Nothing in a permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal
       action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties to
       which the permittee is or may be subject to under Section 311 of the Federal Act
       or the applicable provisions under Mississippi law pertaining to the transportation,
       storage, treatment, or spillage of oil or hazardous substances.

(24)   Civil and Criminal Liability



                                         45
       (a)      Any person who violates a term, condition or schedule of compliance
                contained within the permit or the Mississippi Water Pollution Control
                Law is subject to the actions defined by law.

       (b)      Except as provided in permit conditions on "Bypassing" and "Upsets"
                (A.20 and 27 of this Rule) nothing in a permit shall be construed to relieve
                the permittee from civil or criminal penalties for noncompliance.

       (c)      It shall not be the defense of the permittee in an enforcement action that it
                would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order
                to maintain compliance with the conditions of the permit.

(25)   Severability

       The provisions of a permit are severable. If any provision of a permit, or the
       application of any provision of a permit to any circumstances, is challenged or
       held invalid, the validity of the remaining permit provisions and/or portions
       thereof or their application to other persons or sets of circumstances, shall not be
       affected thereby.

(26)   Compliance with Toxic Effluent Standards

       The permittee shall comply with any toxic effluent standard or prohibition
       (including any schedule of compliance specified in such effluent standard or
       prohibition) established under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act. The permittee
       shall comply with the applicable provisions of 40 CFR 122.42, which are
       incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(27)   Upsets

       Facilities which experience upset conditions shall meet the conditions of 40 CFR
       122.41(n), which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference, as follows:

       (a)      Definition. "Upset" means an exceptional incident in which there is
                unintentional and temporary noncompliance with technology based permit
                effluent limitations because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
                permittee. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused
                by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
                treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
                improper operation.

       (b)      Effect of an upset. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an
                action brought for noncompliance with such technology based permit
                effluent limitations if the requirements of 1.1.4.A.27.c. of this Rule are
                met. Any determination made during administrative review of claims that
                noncompliance was caused by upset, and before an action for

                                         46
              noncompliance, shall not constitute a final administrative action subject to
              judicial review.

       (c)    Conditions necessary for demonstration of upset. A permittee who wishes
              to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through
              properly signed contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant
              evidence that:

              (1)    an upset occurred and that the permittee can identify the cause(s)
                     of the upset;

              (2)    the permitted facility was at the time being properly operated;

              (3)    the permittee submitted notice of the upset as required in 40 CFR
                     122.41(L)(6)(ii)(B)(24-hour notice of noncompliance); and

              (4)    the permittee complied with any remedial measures required under
                     40 CFR 122.41(d) (duty to mitigate).

       (d)    Burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding the permittee seeking to
              establish the occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof.

(28)   Monitoring of Discharges Authorized by All Permits: Requirements

       (a)    The Permit Board may prescribe monitoring requirements for any
              discharge authorized by a State, UIC, or NPDES permit issued pursuant to
              this regulation. A State, UIC, or NPDES permit issued pursuant to this
              regulation may be subject to such monitoring requirements as may be
              reasonably required by the Permit Board to determine compliance with
              permit conditions or State Water Quality Criteria. Such monitoring may
              include the discharge point, instream monitoring, and, include the
              installation, use, and maintenance of monitoring equipment or methods
              including, where appropriate, biological monitoring methods. Ambient
              instream monitoring may be required by the Permit Board to assure that
              WQBELs are protective of State water quality criteria through
              consideration of factors, including, but not limited to, the following:

              (1)    variance to any water quality criteria,

              (2)    the complexity of the receiving water body,

              (3)    magnitude and impact or potential impact of the discharge,

              (4)    amount of available data, and

              (5)    aquatic life and human health concerns.

                                       47
             The Permit Board will normally require the applicant/permittee to
             provide the necessary information.

(b)   The Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) may require monitoring
      requirements for reporting and recording of monitoring results contained
      in 40 CFR 122.48 which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(c)   A discharge authorized by an NPDES permit which the Regional
      Administrator (or his/her designee) by written request to the Executive
      Director, requires to be monitored or which contains toxic waste
      constituents for which an effluent standard or limitation has been
      established by the Administrator of EPA pursuant to Section 307(a) of the
      Federal Act, shall be monitored by the permittee for any or all of the
      following:

      (1)    The measurement of the discharge in gallons per day or other units
             specified by the Permit Board.

      (2)    Waste constituents subject to reduction or elimination under the
             terms and conditions of the permit.

      (3)    Specific waste constituents which are determined by the Permit
             Board to have a significant effect on the quality of the water of the
             State.

      (4)    Waste or wastewater constituents specified as subject to
             monitoring by the Administrator of EPA in regulations
             promulgated pursuant to the Federal Act.

      (5)    Any other specific waste constituents which the Regional
             Administrator (or his/her designee) may request in writing to be
             monitored.

(d)   Test procedures for the analysis of pollutants shall conform to regulations
      published pursuant to Section 304(h) of the Federal Water Pollution
      Control Act, as amended.

(e)   Samples and measurements taken as required herein shall be
      representative of the volume and nature of the monitored wastewater.

(f)   The frequency of monitoring of a waste discharge required to be
      monitored pursuant to this regulation shall be specified in a State, UIC, or
      NPDES permit when issued, except that the Permit Board at any time may
      require additional monitoring for purposes of determining compliance by
      so notifying the permittee in writing.

                               48
       (g)    The requirements regarding the disposal of pollutants into wells, into
              publicly owned treatment works or by land application contained in 40
              CFR 122.50 are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(29)   Monitoring of Discharges Authorized by All Permits: Recording and Reporting

       (a)    A permittee required to monitor a waste discharge pursuant to Rule
              1.1.4.A.28 shall maintain records of all information obtained from such
              monitoring, including the date, place and time of sampling; the dates
              analyses were performed; the person performing the analyses; the
              analytical techniques, procedures or methods used; and the results of such
              analyses. All records and results of monitoring activities, including
              calibration and maintenance records, shall be retained by the permittee a
              minimum of three (3) years unless otherwise required or extended by the
              Permit Board, copies of which shall be furnished to the Department upon
              request. Except for data determined to be confidential under the
              Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law, all reports prepared in
              accordance with the terms of this permit shall be available for public
              inspection at the offices of the Department.

       (b)    The Permit Board may require a permittee to report periodically the results
              of all required monitoring activities undertaken by the permittee on an
              appropriate reporting form supplied by the Permit Board. The Permit
              Board shall notify the permittee of the frequency of reporting. For State
              permits and NPDES permits, the monitoring frequency shall not be less
              than once/year and for Pretreatment permits, the frequency shall not be
              less than twice/year.

       (c)    Upon written request of the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee),
              the Executive Director shall transmit any reporting form or other
              monitoring information required by this regulation.

       (d)    Any permittee who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
              inaccurate any monitoring device or method required by the Permit Board
              to be maintained as a condition in a permit, or who alters or falsifies the
              results obtained by such devices or methods and/or any written report
              required by or in response to a permit condition, shall be deemed to have
              violated a permit condition and shall be subject to the penalties provided
              for a violation of a permit condition pursuant to Section 49-17-43 of the
              Code.

       (e)    Twenty-four hour reporting.

              (1)    The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger
                     health or the environment. Any information shall be provided

                                       49
                           orally within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware
                           of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided
                           within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the
                           circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description
                           of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncompliance,
                           including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not
                           been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
                           steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and/or prevent
                           recurrence of the noncompliance.

                   (2)     The following shall be included as information which must be
                           reported within 24 hours under this paragraph.

                           (i)     Any unanticipated bypass which exceeds any effluent
                                   limitation in the permit.

                           (ii)    Any upset which exceeds any effluent limitation in the
                                   permit.

                           (iii)   Violation of a maximum daily discharge limitation for any
                                   of the pollutants listed by the Permit Board in the permit to
                                   be reported within 24 hours.

                   (3)     The Executive Director may waive the written report on a case-by-
                           case basis for reports under paragraph (e).(2) of this rule if the oral
                           report has been received within 24 hours.

            (f)    Other noncompliance. The permittee shall report all instances of
                   noncompliance not reported under A.29.e. of this Rule, at the time
                   monitoring reports are submitted or within 30 days from the end of the
                   month in which the noncompliance occurs. The reports shall contain the
                   information listed in A.29.(e)(1) of this Rule.

            (g)    Other information. Where the permittee becomes aware that it failed to
                   submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect
                   information in a permit application or in any report to the Permit Board, it
                   shall promptly submit such facts or information.

     (30)   Testing Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants for All Permits

            Testing procedures include those set forth in 40 CFR 136 which is incorporated
            herein and adopted by reference or alternative procedures approved and/or
            promulgated by EPA.

B.   State Permits Issued to a POTW or NPDES Permits Issued to a POTW



                                             50
A State no discharge permit to a POTW or an NPDES permit for a discharge from a POTW shall
contain notification requirements as follows:

      (1)    Any new introduction of waste or wastewater constituents into the treatment
             works from a source which would be a new source as defined in Section 306 of
             the Federal Act if the source were discharging waste constituents.

      (2)    Except as to particular categories and classes of point sources or discharges
             specified by the Permit Board, any new introduction of waste constituents into the
             treatment works from a source which would be subject to Section 301 of the
             Federal Act if the source were discharging waste constituents.

      (3)    Any substantial change in volume or character of waste constituents being
             introduced into such treatment works by a source discharging waste into the
             treatment works at the time of issuance of a permit.

      (4)    All new requests for

             (a)    connecting to the POTW's collection system or

             (b)    direct discharge into the treatment system if the new connection/discharge
                    is for industrial non-sanitary wastewater or for any discharge in excess of
                    25,000 gpd.

C.    General Requirements Applicable to State Permits Issued to Concentrated Animal
Operations or NPDES Permits Issued to Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations

As part of the conditions for issuance and reissuance of a wastewater treatment permit for
concentrated animal feeding operations, the following shall be applicable:

      (1)    All animal feedlots, Grade A dairies, poultry operations with 9,000 or more birds,
             swine operations with 10 or more sows or 50 or more swine, which have been
             constructed, enlarged or significantly altered after August 15, 1979, or any other
             animal confinement causing pollution of waters of the State or Grade A dairies
             needing to reapply to the State Health Department for reissuance of a revoked
             Health Department permit shall obtain a permit pursuant to these regulations.

      (2)    Facilities built before August 15, 1979, are not automatically required to obtain a
             permit. However, any facility that causes pollution of waters of the state, or
             places or causes to be placed any wastes in a location where they are likely to
             cause pollution of any waters of the state or operates a wastewater treatment or
             disposal system may be required to obtain a permit or coverage under a general
             permit.

      (3)    All facilities that perform concentrated animal feeding operations that meet the
             federal regulatory requirements of 40 CFR 122.23 shall submit an application

                                             51
              prescribed by the Commission, and shall be issued, upon concurrence by the
              Permit Board, an NPDES Permit in accordance with 40 CFR 122.23.

       (4)    All facilities that perform concentrated animal feeding operations that do not meet
              the federal regulatory requirement of 40 CFR Part 122.23 shall submit a treatment
              design worksheet from the Soil Conservation Service or other approvable waste
              disposal system design. Said design and request for site inspection shall
              constitute an application for an animal waste disposal permit or for coverage
              under a general permit.

       (5)    The Department shall perform a site inspection prior to presenting the application
              for consideration to the Permit Board or granting coverage under a general permit.
              The inspection will determine compliance with siting criteria set forth in Rule
              1.1.1.C.2.

       (6)    At reissuance, all facilities shall demonstrate that their wastewater treatment
              facility satisfies the original design capacity.

       (7)    General permits may be developed for concentrated animal operations.

D. State No Discharge Permit Issued to a Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility with a
Capacity of 1500 Gallons per Day or Less or NPDES Permits Issued to a Domestic
Wastewater Treatment Facility with a Capacity of 1500 Gallons per Day or Less:

As part of the conditions for issuing and/or reissuing a wastewater treatment permit for domestic
wastewater treatment facilities of 1500 gpd or less, the following shall be applicable:

       (1)    Aerobic mechanical treatment plants to be used in this State must meet the
              current revision of American National Standards Institute/National Sanitation
              Foundation (ANSI/NSF) International Standard No. 40 requirements for Class I
              plants and be listed by the Mississippi State Department of Health in accordance
              with Miss. Code Ann. § 41-67-10, which is incorporated herein and adopted by
              reference.

       (2)    The following requirements shall be standard conditions for these permits.

              (a)     All aerobic mechanical plants and subsurface systems must be installed by
                      a professional engineer registered in Mississippi or a person who holds a
                      license from the Mississippi State Department of Health pursuant to Miss.
                      Code Ann. §41-67-25, as amended, which is incorporated herein and
                      adopted by reference.

              (b)     All aerobic mechanical plants must be adequately inspected at a frequency
                      as specified in the permit, by an individual holding a Mississippi
                      Wastewater Operators Certificate. The owner of the mechanical plant
                      must provide a copy of the inspection report to the State, along with a

                                               52
                     description of corrective actions taken if such actions were needed.
                     Alternatively, the owner may have such inspections and reports completed
                     by an authorized and trained representative of the mechanical plant
                     manufacturer.

E.     Administration of State General Permits and NPDES General Permits

       (1)    Any facility and/or discharger covered or eligible to be covered under a general
              permit may be required to obtain an individual State or NPDES permit at the
              discretion of the Permit Board. Any interested person may petition the Permit
              Board to take action under this paragraph.

       (2)    Any facility and/or discharger covered by a State general permit or an NPDES
              general permit may request to be excluded from such coverage by applying for an
              individual State or NPDES permit. The applicability of the general permit is
              automatically terminated upon issuance of an individual permit.

       (3)    Any facility and/or discharger excluded from coverage under a general permit
              solely because it is already covered under an individual State or NPDES permit
              may request that the individual permit be revoked and that it be covered by the
              general permit. If coverage under the general permit is to be approved, the Permit
              Board or its designee may revoke the individual permit and issue coverage under
              the general permit simultaneously.

F.     NPDES Permits Only

An NPDES permit shall contain the following:

       (1)    Reopener Clause. The permit shall be modified, or alternately, revoked and
              reissued, to comply with any applicable effluent standard, limitation or storm
              water regulation issued or approved under Section 301(b)(2)(C), and (D),
              304(b)(2), 307(a)(2), and 402(p) of the Federal Act if the effluent standard,
              limitation, or regulation so issued or approved:

              (a)    contains different conditions or is otherwise more stringent than any
                     effluent limitation in the permit; or

              (b)    controls any pollutant not limited in the permit.

       (2)    Point Source Discharges: Standards of Performance.

              (a)    Any new source subject to an NPDES permit which meets the applicable
                     effluent new source standards of performance as required by the Federal
                     Act, the State law or this regulation, shall not be subject to any more
                     stringent standard of performance for any wastewater constituent during a
                     10-year period beginning on the date of completion of construction or

                                               53
                    during the period of depreciation or amortization of the facility for the
                    purpose of Sections 167 and 169, or both, of the Internal Revenue Code of
                    1954, whichever period ends first.

             (b)    The protection from more stringent standards of performance afforded by
                    subparagraph a. of this rule does not apply to conditions based upon water
                    quality standards, or to toxic effluent standards or prohibitions under
                    Section 307(a) of the Federal Act, or to any other toxic pollutants or
                    hazardous substances not controlled by standards of performance.

      (3)    Permit Requirements for NPDES Permits: Criteria Standards.
             The criteria standards for NPDES permits found in 40 CFR 125, subparts A, B, D,
             G, H, I, J, M, N, and 40 CFR 129, 133 are incorporated herein and adopted by
             reference.

      (4)    The additional conditions applicable to specified categories of NPDES permits
             contained in 40 CFR 122.42 are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

G.    NPDES Mineral Mining and Processing Permits

As part of the conditions for issuing a wastewater treatment permit for mineral mining and
processing, the following shall be applicable:

      (1)    A site inspection shall be performed by the Department to ensure compliance with
             siting criteria set forth in Rule 1.1.1.C.2.

      (2)    The applicant shall demonstrate to the Permit Board it has obtained or filed
             complete applications for necessary storm water permits or coverages and for
             mining permits (through the Office of Geology). Failure to obtain or submit
             complete applications for those permits or coverages shall constitute grounds for
             denial of the NPDES mineral mining and processing permit.

      (3)    Structural Integrity.

             (a)    Any lagoon, sedimentation pond, or dredge pit must have an emergency
                    discharge structure installed at least 24 inches above the normal operating
                    fluid level, said discharge structure being at least 24 inches below the
                    lowest point on the top of the containment dike.

             (b)    Dikes and any other appurtenant structures must be constructed utilizing
                    accepted engineering designs, standards, methodologies and materials. A
                    professional engineer registered in the State of Mississippi shall certify the
                    adequacy of construction.

             (c)    Dikes shall be maintained in good working order at all times. There shall
                    be no leaks through dikes. Any damaged dike shall be replaced or

                                              54
                     repaired immediately upon discovering any deficiency. All earthen dikes
                     shall be maintained with adequate cover, such that the effects of erosion
                     are minimized.

              (d)    The permittee shall develop and maintain a daily inspection log for the
                     facility. This log should include, but not be limited to, the following;
                     condition of all dikes, observance of the area around the dikes to indicate
                     any water pollution problems and the volume of wastewater accumulating
                     within the dike. The date, time and person making the inspection should
                     also be included in this log.

       (4)    Sand and Gravel Permits. Special Conditions.

              When a mining activity is adjacent to a stream, a buffer zone shall be maintained
              between the edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of
              the stream. The buffer zone widths shall be the same as those set forth in Rule
              1.3.4.C.3.(a)(1), (2) and (3). The buffer zone shall not be disturbed by any of the
              facility's activities.

H.     NPDES Animal Waste Permits Only

An NPDES animal waste permit shall contain the following (in addition to the requirements set
forth in C. of this Rule):

       (1)    Releases in Excess of the 25-year, 24-hour Storm Event.

              Process waste pollutants in the overflow may be discharged to waters of the U.S.
              whenever rainfall events, either chronic or catastrophic, cause an overflow of
              process waste water from a facility designed, constructed and operated to contain
              all process generated waste waters plus the runoff from a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall
              event for the location of the point source. There shall be no effluent limitations
              on discharges from detention structures constructed and maintained to contain the
              25-year, 24-hour storm event if the discharge is the result of a rainfall event which
              exceeds the design capacity and proper maintenance is done. Retention structures
              shall have capacity to contain all process wastewaters plus the 25-year, 24-hour
              storm event.

       (2)    Proper Operation and Maintenance Requirements.

              The facilities covered by the permit are required to document the attainment of all
              Best Management Practices (BMPs) used to comply with the effluent limitations
              in the permit. Where applicable, equivalent measures contained in a site specific
              Animal Waste Management Plan, if prepared by the U.S. Department of
              Agriculture Soil Conservation Service (NRCS), may be substituted for the Best
              Management Practices and Pollution Prevention Plan requirements in the permit.
              Where provisions in the Soil Conservation Service plan are substituted for

                                               55
           applicable Best Management Practices or portions of the Pollution Prevention
           Plan, the Pollution Prevention Plan must refer to the appropriate section of the
           Soil Conservation Service plan. If the pollution prevention plan contains
           reference to the Soil Conservation Service plan, a copy of the Soil Conservation
           Service plan must be kept on site.

     (3)   Best Management Practices.

           Animal waste NPDES permits shall contain Best Management Practices (BMPs)
           at least as stringent as NRCS Manual and all future amendments.

     (4)   Pollution Prevention Plans.

           A pollution prevention plan shall be developed for each facility covered by the
           permit. Pollution prevention plans shall be prepared in accordance with good
           engineering practices and should include measures necessary to limit pollutants in
           runoff. The plan shall describe and ensure the implementation of practices which
           are to be used to assure compliance with the limitations and conditions of the
           permit. The plan shall identify a specific individual(s) at the facility who is
           responsible for developing the implementation, maintenance, and revision of the
           pollution prevention plan. The activities and responsibilities of the pollution
           prevention personnel should address all aspects of the facility's pollution
           prevention plan.

           (a)    Where a Soil Conservation Service plan has been prepared for the facility,
                  the pollution prevention plan may refer to the Soil Conservation Service
                  plan when the Soil Conservation Service plan documentation contains
                  equivalent requirements for the facility.

           (b)    The plan shall be signed by the owner or other signatory authority and be
                  retained on site. The plan shall be updated as appropriate.

     (5)   Preventive Maintenance.

           The plan shall include an appropriate schedule for preventative maintenance.
           Operators will provide routine maintenance to their control facilities in
           accordance with a schedule and plan of operation to ensure compliance with the
           permit. The permittee shall keep a maintenance log documenting that preventative
           maintenance was done. A preventive maintenance program shall involve
           inspection and maintenance of all runoff management devices (cleaning
           separators, catch basins) as well as inspecting and testing facility equipment and
           containment structures to uncover conditions that could cause break downs or
           failures resulting in discharges of pollutants to surface waters.

I.   Storm Water NPDES General Permits Only



                                           56
Pursuant to 40 CFR 122.26(c), storm water general permits shall require that a Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) be submitted with the Notice of Intent (NOI) for coverage
unless otherwise addressed in the general permit. The SWPPP shall include, but not be limited
to, the information required by the Storm Water NPDES General Permit.

J.     Sewage Sludge Use or Disposal Requirements

The use and disposal of sewage sludge shall be in accordance with 40 CFR 503 - Standards for
the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge, which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
In the event the use and/or disposal of sludge involve incineration resulting in air emissions, a
permit to construct and/or operate will be required in accordance with Regulation Title 11, Part
2, Chapter 2, "Permit Regulation for the Construction and/or Operation of Air Emissions
Equipment".

K.     UIC Permits

       (1)    The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Mississippi was
              approved by EPA and became effective on September 26, 1983. Unless otherwise
              required herein, all owners or operators of Class I, III, IV or V wells, all
              applicants for UIC permits, and the Director of the UIC program shall comply
              with applicable provisions of 40 CFR 144, 146, 147.1250 subpart Z and 148,
              which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference, except as follows:

              (a)     Where federal regulations use the phrase “for EPA administered programs
                      only,” those portions of the federal regulations are not applicable to the
                      Mississippi program and

              (b)     All regulations applicable to Class II wells are excluded from the
                      aforementioned adoption since EPA has granted to the Mississippi State
                      Oil and Gas Board the authority to regulate Class II wells.

       (2)    Unless otherwise provided herein, the UIC program shall be operated in
              compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR incorporated by reference in this
              paragraph.

       (3)    Classification of Injection Wells

              Notwithstanding 40 CFR 144.6 and 146.5, for the purposes of these regulations,
              injection wells are classified as follows:

              (a)     Class I.

                      (1)        Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or
                                 operators of hazardous waste management facilities to inject
                                 hazardous waste beneath the lowermost formation containing,



                                                  57
             within five (5) miles of the wellbore, an underground source of
             drinking water.

      (2)    Other municipal and industrial disposal wells (including
             radioactive waste disposal wells) which inject fluids beneath the
             lowermost formation containing, within five (5) miles of the well
             bore, an underground source of drinking water.

(b)   Class II. Wells which inject fluids:

      (1)    Which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas
             storage operations, or conventional oil or natural gas production
             and may be commingled with waste waters from gas plants which
             are an integral part of production operations, unless those waters
             are classified as a hazardous waste at the time of injection.

      (2)    For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas; and

      (3)    For storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard
             temperature and pressure. Notwithstanding parts 3.a. and 3.d. of
             this rule, naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM)
             disposal wells are classified as Class II wells provided they meet
             the specific requirements of the Mississippi State Oil and Gas
             Board for such types of injection wells.

(c)   Class III. Wells which inject for extraction of minerals including:

      (1)    Mining of sulfur by the Frasch process;

      (2)    In-situ production of uranium or other metals. This category
             includes only in-situ production from ore bodies which have not
             been conventionally mined. Solution mining of conventional
             mines such as slopes leaching is included in Class V.

      (3)    Solution mining of salts or potash.

(d)   Class IV.

      (1)    Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive
             waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management
             facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal
             sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a
             formation which within five (5) miles of the well bore contains an
             underground source of drinking water.




                               58
             (2)     Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive
                     waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management
                     facilities or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal
                     sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a
                     formation which within 5 miles of the well contains an
                     underground source of drinking water.

             (3)     Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or
                     operators of hazardous waste management facilities to dispose of
                     hazardous waste, which cannot be classified under 40 CFR 146.5
                     (a)(1) or 40 CFR 146.5 (d)(1) or (2) (e.g., wells used to dispose of
                     hazardous waste into or above a formation which contains an
                     aquifer which has been exempted pursuant to 40 CFR 146.04).

      (e)    Class V. Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, or IV.

             Typically, Class V wells are shallow wells used to place a variety of fluids
             directly below the land surface. However, if the fluids placed in the
             ground qualify as a hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and
             Recovery Act (RCRA), the well shall be considered either a Class I or
             Class IV well, not a Class V well. Specific types of Class V injection
             wells are described in 40 CFR 144.81.

(4)   Rules and Regulations for Injection Wells

      (a)    Class I Wells.

             (1)     Prohibition of Commercial Hazardous Waste Injection Wells.
                     In accordance with Miss. Code Ann. Section 17-17-27, Class I
                     hazardous waste wells are prohibited, except such wells located on
                     the generation site of hazardous waste generated in the production
                     of oil or gas or in a commercial or manufacturing operation.
                     Commercial hazardous waste underground injection wells
                     designed or intended to dispose of multiple, non-homogeneous
                     types of wastes from multiple sources other than the owner of the
                     well are prohibited.

             (2)     Requirements for a New Class I Well.

                     (i)      No person shall receive a permit for a new Class I well
                              when the waste can be reasonably and adequately disposed
                              by other methods.

                     (ii)     Factors to be considered in determining whether
                              underground injection or some other method of disposal



                                       59
              should be used shall include, but not necessarily be limited
              to, the following:

              (A)    cost; (disposal methods other than injection wells
                     must be used unless unreasonable costs are
                     demonstrated. Marginal costs shall not be a basis
                     for an injection well.);

              (B)    treatment reliability;

              (C)    effluent quality;

              (D)    stream use classification;

              (E)    indirect environmental impacts (e.g. sludge created,
                     energy used, safety, etc.); and

              (F)    any other factor         the   Permit   Board   deems
                     appropriate.

(3)   A person applying for a new Class I permit shall submit a report
      providing a basis for the injection well. The report shall include:

      (i)     a detailed description of the composition of the wastes and
              the manufacturing process(es) and product(s) producing the
              wastes;

      (ii)    treatability studies of alternate forms of waste treatment
              and/or disposal; and,

      (iii)   a detailed explanation of the reasons why each alternative
              disposal method is considered less satisfactory than the
              proposed injection well, taking into consideration the
              factors identified in paragraph b. of this rule.

(4)   A permittee shall continue to investigate alternative treatment
      and/or disposal technologies and shall discontinue deep well
      disposal by a schedule approved by the Department if it is
      determined that these alternative technologies or other
      technologies are feasible and economically practicable.

(5)   Area of review of Class I Wells. Notwithstanding 40 CFR 146.6,
      the area of review for all Class I wells shall not be less than a 2-
      mile radius around the well bore. The Permit Board may specify a
      larger area of review based on the calculated cone of influence of
      the well.

                        60
(6)   Notwithstanding 40 CFR 146.12, all new Class I wells shall be
      constructed in accordance with 40 CFR 146.65(c).

(7)   Reporting Requirements for Class I Wells.

      (i)     In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 144.55, an
              applicant for a Class I well permit shall identify the
              location of all known wells within the injection well’s area
              of review which penetrate the injection zone or penetrate to
              within 300 feet of the top of the injection zone. For such
              wells which are improperly sealed, completed, or
              abandoned, the applicant shall submit a corrective action
              plan as required in 40 CFR 144.55. The plan shall be
              updated annually, as necessary, to include any improperly
              sealed, completed, abandoned wells which are identified in
              the annual report required in part 4.(f)(3) of this rule.

      (ii)    In addition to the reporting requirements of 40 CFR 144.51
              (1), the permittee shall report orally to the Department
              within 24 hours of occurrence, the shutdown of any Class I
              well which requires down holes maintenance or repair.
              Excluded from this requirement are normal or expected
              operational shutdowns and maintenance procedures. Oral
              notification shall be followed by written notification within
              5 days of occurrence.

      (iii)   The permittee shall file annually a report on the following
              information, to the extent that such information is
              reasonably available.

              (A)    Locations and depths of newly drilled or newly
                     discovered wells within the area of review which
                     penetrate the injection zone or penetrate to within
                     300 feet of the top of the injection zone, if such
                     wells were not included in any previously submitted
                     report.

              (B)    Tabulation of data on all wells identified pursuant to
                     subparagraph K.(1)of this paragraph, including:

                     (1)     a description of each well’s type,

                     (2)     construction,

                     (3)     data drilled,

                        61
                             (4)     location,

                             (5)     depth,

                             (6)     record of plugging and/or completion, and

                             (7)     any additional information which the Permit
                                     Board may require.

                             (8)     No UIC permit issued by the Permit Board
                                     shall be deemed to allow the permittee to
                                     inject any waste not specifically identified in
                                     the permit or any waste in any amount
                                     greater than the volume or rate specified in
                                     the permit. Additionally, no UIC permit for
                                     the injection of hazardous waste prohibited
                                     from land disposal by the federal Resource
                                     Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)
                                     Land Disposal Rules, 40 CFR 148, shall be
                                     issued by the Permit Board until and unless
                                     the permit applicant first obtains an
                                     exemption from the Land Disposal Rules for
                                     that hazardous waste from EPA.

(b)   Class II Wells. In accordance with applicable state and federal regulations
      and statues, the Mississippi State Oil and Gas Board has primacy to
      administer all matters related to the operation of Class II wells in the state.

(c)   Class III Wells. Permitted Class III wells shall be completed and operated
      in accordance with standard injection well practices that ensure the
      protection of USDWs.

(d)   Class IV Wells.

      (1)    The operation of Class IV wells are banned statewide, with the
             following exception: Notwithstanding the requirements of
             paragraphs (a) and (b) of 40 CFR 144.23, Class IV injection wells
             used to inject contaminated ground water that has been treated and
             is being injected into the same formation from which it was drawn
             are authorized by rule for the life of the well if such subsurface
             emplacement of fluids is approved for cleanup of releases under
             the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
             Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. 9601-9675, or
             pursuant to requirements and provisions under the Resource



                                62
                             Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6901-6992k
                             or the Mississippi delegated RCRA program.

                      (2)    Owners or operators of Class IV wells shall notify the Department
                             and EPA of their intent to close any such well at least 30 days prior
                             to its closure.

                      (3)    All Class IV wells shall be plugged in a manner acceptable to
                             EPA.

            (e)       Class V Wells.

                      (1)    In accordance with 40 CFR 144.85:

                             (i)       As of April 5, 2000, the installation of new large-capacity
                                       cesspools and new motor vehicle disposal wells are
                                       prohibited statewide.

                             (ii)      All motor vehicle disposal wells located within delineated
                                       Source Water Protection Areas must be closed by January
                                       1, 2005.

                             (iii)     All large-capacity cesspools must be closed statewide by
                                       April 5, 2005.

                             (iv)      All motor vehicle disposal wells (regardless of their
                                       location) must be closed statewide by January 1, 2007.

                      (2)    Owners or operators of Class V wells shall notify the Department
                             of their intent to close any such well at least 30 days prior to its
                             closure. Official notification shall consist of submitting a
                             completed Class V Well Pre-closure Notification Form.

                      (3)    All Class V wells shall be closed in accordance with applicable
                             plugging and abandonment requirements contained in Title 11,
                             Part 7, Chapter 1, Surface Water and Groundwater Use and
                             Protection Regulations. Owners or operators of such wells shall
                             submit a completed Class V Well Decommissioning Form to
                             MDEQ indicating the adherence to proper plugging and
                             abandonment procedures. In addition, the owner or operator must
                             dispose or manage any soil, gravel, sludge, liquids, or other
                             materials removed from or adjacent to the well in accordance with
                             all applicable Federal, State, and local regulations and
                             requirements.

L.   State Permits.

                                                63
The discharge of any wastewater from a facility operating under a State permit to waters of the
State shall constitute a violation of the permit, except as provided in Rule 1.1.4.A.20 and 27, or
as authorized under separate permit pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Act.

M.     Pretreatment Permits.

The applicable procedures and requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403 and all amendments thereto
are incorporated herein and adopted by reference as applicable to all pretreatment permits except
the following:

       (1)     40 CFR 403.5(c) and (d)

       (2)     40 CFR 403.8

       (3)     40 CFR 403.9

       (4)     40 CFR 403.11

       (5)     40 CFR 403.18

               In addition, 40 CFR 403.1(b)(i) is amended to provide as follows:

               To pollutants from non-domestic sources covered by Pretreatment Standards
               which are indirectly discharged into or transported by truck or rail or otherwise
               introduced into public or privately owned treatment works.

               Finally, the term "control authority" and/or "POTW" as used in the
               aforementioned regulation, shall mean the State of Mississippi.

N.     State Permits Issued to Animal Feeding Operations Only

The following requirements shall be standard conditions for the issuance and reissuance of State
Animal Waste Permits (in addition to those requirements set forth in C. of this Rule):

       (1) Wet

               (a)    The Permit Board shall be notified in advance of the maintenance of any
                      portion of the disposal system which will result in lowering of the
                      efficiency of treatment during such maintenance or in the discharge of
                      untreated waste to any waterway.

               (b)    The permittee must have all necessary structures and/or equipment to
                      prevent any discharge other than that which is in excess of a 24-hour, 25-
                      year rainfall event. Any discharge other than a discharge in excess of the
                      24-hour, 25-year rainfall event discharge is a violation of this permit.

                                               64
              (c)    The permittee must report once per year on any discharge occurrence.
                     The report must contain date, time, circumstances, and duration of
                     discharge.

              (d)    The permittee must have completed construction within 12 months of date
                     of issuance of this permit. Failure to submit certification of completion of
                     construction, as designed, may result in revocation of permit.

       (2)    Dry

              (a)    Dry litter facilities shall have no discharge of process wastewater or
                     contaminated stormwater.

              (b)    The Permittee shall implement an approvable Comprehensive Nutrient
                     Plan.

              (c)    The Permittee must have completed construction within 12 months of date
                     of issuance of this permit. Failure to submit certification of completion of
                     construction, as designed, may result in revocation of permit.

O.     State Mineral Mining and Processing Permits.

State No-Discharge permits shall contain as a minimum, the following requirements:

       (1)    No Discharge of Wastewater to Surface Water. The discharge of any wastewater
              from the facility to the waters of the State of Mississippi shall constitute a
              violation of the permit, except as provided in the permit, or as authorized under
              separate permit pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
              Act.

       (2)    Structural Integrity.

              (a)    Any lagoon, sedimentation pond, or dredge pit must have an emergency
                     discharge structure installed at least 24 inches above the normal operating
                     fluid level, said discharge structure being at least 24 inches below the
                     lowest point on the top of the containment dike

              (b)    Dikes and any other appurtenant structures must be constructed utilizing
                     accepted engineering designs, standards, methodologies and materials. A
                     professional engineer registered in the State of Mississippi shall certify the
                     adequacy of construction.

              (c)    Dikes shall be maintained in good working order at all times. There shall
                     be no leaks through dikes, any damaged dike shall be replaced or repaired
                     immediately upon discovering any deficiency, and all earthen dikes shall

                                              65
                      be maintained with adequate cover, such that the effects of erosion are
                      minimized.

              (d)     The permittee shall develop and maintain a daily inspection log for this
                      facility. This log should include but not be limited to the following;
                      condition of all dikes, observance of the area around the dikes to indicate
                      any water pollution problems and the volume of wastewater accumulating
                      within the dike. The date, time and person making the inspection should
                      be included in this log.

       (3)    Sand and Gravel Permits Special Conditions.

              When a mining activity is adjacent to a stream, a buffer zone shall be maintained
              between the edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of
              the stream. The buffer zone widths shall be the same as those set forth in Rule
              1.3.4.C.3.(a)(1), (2) and (3) of these regulations. The buffer zone shall not be
              disturbed by any of the facility's activities.

P.     State Permits for the Disposal of Contaminated Milk

All facilities and/or individual(s) needing to dispose of milk that has been classified by the
Mississippi State Department of Health as contaminated shall apply for a State permit. As part
of the conditions for issuing a waste disposal permit for contaminated milk, the following shall
be applicable.

       (1)    A contaminated milk disposal plan developed by the Natural Resources
              Conservation Service (NRCS) utilizing NRCS Contaminated Milk Disposal
              Guidelines shall be accepted as an application.

       (2)    The NRCS contaminated milk disposal plan shall become enforceable
              requirements of the permit.

       (3)    The permittee shall notify the Department prior to each application of
              contaminated milk. Notification shall consist of verbal communication prior to
              disposal; followed by written notification within five (5) days.

Q.     State Permits for Aerial Applicator Program

       (1)    Any person engaged in aerial application originating at a landing strip (including
              public and private) within the State for the purpose of chemical aerial application
              shall apply to the Permit Board for a State permit.

       (2)    Terms and Conditions of State Permits for Aerial Applicators are listed below:




                                               66
              (a)     Utilization of any surface impoundment for the purpose of collection,
                      storage, and/or treatment of chemically contaminated wastewater
                      generated from operations at an aerial applicator facility is prohibited.

              (b)     The discharges of any contaminated hopper low sump wastewater to
                      surface waters or grounds of the facility are prohibited.

              (c)     The discharge of rinse water employed to remove chemical residue from
                      the hopper, spray booms, empty chemical containers, and any other
                      auxiliary equipment requiring frequent washing for chemical removal is
                      prohibited.

              (d)     The Permit Board may require that all used and/or empty chemical
                      containers be removed from the premises within a reasonable time.

              (e)     All empty containers must be triple rinsed prior to disposal in an approved
                      landfill.

              (f)     All bulk chemical storage tanks are subject to Best Management Plans in
                      accordance with A.12 of this Rule.

              (g)     Any connections from a public water supply to any tanks, sumps, etc.,
                      containing pesticides must be made so as to prevent backflow to the
                      potable water system.

              (h)     The Permit Board may require additional terms and conditions it deems
                      appropriate to prevent pollution and/or protect human health, welfare or
                      the environment.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.5 Duration, Review and Reissuance, Transfer, Modification, Termination, Revocation,
Enforcement and Property Rights.

A.     Duration of Permit

       (1)    The duration of an NPDES permit shall be established in accordance with 40 CFR
              122.46, which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. A State permit
              issued pursuant to the State law and this regulation may be issued for a period not
              to exceed five years. A UIC permit shall be issued for a term not to exceed ten
              years. A person who wishes to continue to operate under a permit which expires
              shall apply for reissuance of a permit pursuant to C. of this Rule.

       (2)    All State permits which have an unspecified term or a term exceeding five years,
              shall be reevaluated and may be modified and/or reissued for a period not to
              exceed five (5) years after the date of modification and/or reissuance. Such State

                                               67
             permits may be revoked unless the permittee demonstrates all of the following:

             (a)    the wastewater treatment facility can treat the amount of waste it was
                    originally designed to treat,

             (b)    the wastewater treatment facility is not accepting more waste than it was
                    originally designed to treat,

             (c)    the terms and conditions of the permit meet the current requirements of the
                    Department, and

             (d)    the facility is in compliance with the permit terms and conditions.

                    The Permit Board may establish a schedule for reevaluation, modification
                    and/or revocation of these permits.

      (3)    Permits are subject to modification, revocation, and/or reissuance for cause at any
             time during the life of the permit.

B.    Review and Reissuance of State, UIC, or NPDES Permits: Requests and Filing
Requirements

      (1)    At least 180 days prior to the expiration date of a State, UIC, or individual
             NPDES permit issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law and this
             regulation, a permittee who wishes to continue to operate under such permits
             shall submit an application to the Permit Board for reissuance. The Permit Board
             may grant permission to submit an application later than this, but no later than the
             expiration date of the permit. For NPDES general permits and State general
             permits, the Permit Board will establish in the general permit the schedule for
             resubmission of a NOI.

      (2)    After receipt of an application for reissuance of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit by
             a permittee, the Permit Board shall review the application and before reissuing a
             permit shall be assured that:

             (a)    The permittee is in compliance with or has substantially complied with the
                    terms, conditions, requirements, and schedules of compliance of the
                    existing permit.

             (b)    The Permit Board has up-to-date information on the permittee's production
                    levels, waste treatment practices and the nature, contents and frequency of
                    the permittee's discharge.

             (c)    The discharge is consistent with applicable effluent standards and
                    limitations, water quality standards, and other applicable requirements,
                    including any additions to, revisions or modifications.

                                              68
      (3)    The Permit Board shall follow the same procedures in reissuing an NPDES or
             UIC permit as in issuing one.

      (4)    If the applicant submits a timely and complete application or NOI pursuant to
             subparagraph 1. above, and the Permit Board, through no fault of the applicant,
             fails to reissue the permit or coverage and/or to act on the application or NOI on
             or before the expiration date of the existing permit or coverage, the existing
             permit or coverage shall remain in effect until final action on the permit and/or
             application or NOI is taken by the Permit Board. The provisions of 40 CFR
             122.6(d) are incorporated herein and adopted by reference. In no event shall any
             permit or coverage remain in effect beyond the expiration date provided in B.6.
             below.

      (5)    A copy of any NPDES or UIC permit reissued by the Permit Board shall be
             transmitted to the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) with any
             appropriate forms or other applicable information relating thereto as agreed upon
             in the State/EPA Memorandum of Agreement.

      (6)    An NPDES general permit or state general permit issued by the Permit Board
             pursuant to this regulation shall continue in effect beyond its expiration date if, at
             least thirty days prior to the expiration of the general permit, the Department
             issues a notice of intent to seek reissuance of the permit (with or without
             modification) by the Permit Board. The general permit then will remain in effect
             until the Permit Board takes action on the Department’s reissuance request.

C.    State, UIC, and NPDES Permits: Transfer, Modification, Termination, or
Revocation by the Permit Board

      (1)    The applicable procedures and requirements set forth in the following sections of
             40 CFR, Parts 122, 124 and 144 and amendments thereto shall be adopted as a
             part of this regulation and incorporated herein by reference.

             (a)    Part 122.61, except 122.61(b), and Part 144.38, except 144.38(b) -
                    Transfer of Permits.

             (b)    Part 122.62 and Part 144.39 - Modification or Revocation and Reissuance
                    of Permits.

             (c)    Part 122.63 - Minor Modifications of Permits.

             (d)    Part 122.64 and Part 144.40 - Termination of Permits.

             (e)    Part 124.5 - Modification, Revocation and Reissuance, or Termination of
                    Permits.



                                              69
     (2)   In addition to the requirements provided in 1.a. above, Permit transfers are further
           regulated as follows:

           (a)     "Transfer" shall mean any sale, conveyance, or assignment of the rights
                   held by the applicant in any permit issued pursuant to these regulations.
                   Any change of more than 50 percent of the equity ownership of the permit
                   holder over a sustained period which results in a new majority owner shall
                   constitute a transfer. A new majority owner for purposes of this provision
                   shall be an individual, partnership, company, or group of affiliated
                   companies.

           (b)     A permit issued pursuant to these regulations shall not be transferred
                   except upon approval of the Permit Board.
           (c)     A permit transfer shall be approved if the applicant for transfer approval
                   can demonstrate to the Permit Board it has the financial resources,
                   operational expertise and environmental compliance history over the last
                   five years to insure compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit
                   transferred except where this conflicts with State law.

           (d)     The application for approval of the transfer may be combined with an
                   early application for permit renewal.

     (3)   If the permittee requests a modification of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit which
           will neither cause the original compliance schedule to be extended more than four
           (4) months, nor cause an increase in the effluent limits, the modification may be
           immediately granted by the Permit Board. The Regional Administrator (or his/her
           designee) will be advised of any NPDES or UIC permit modification granted
           pursuant to this subpart.

     (4)   If the permittee requests a modification of a state, UIC, or NPDES permit which
           will cause the original compliance schedule to be extended more than four (4)
           months, or cause effluent limitations to be less stringent prior to the Permit Board
           granting such modification of an NPDES or UIC permit, the Regional
           Administrator (or his/her designee) shall be given a reasonable time as agreed
           between the State and EPA in which to object in writing and any such objections
           shall be resolved before the modification is granted.

     (5)   Permit Actions. The permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or
           terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit
           modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of
           planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit
           condition.

D.   Enforcement




                                            70
       (1)     A person who violates any provision of these regulations, a term, condition or
               schedule of compliance contained within a valid State, UIC, or NPDES permit, or
               the State law is subject to the actions defined in the State law.

       (2)     The Executive Director or his duly authorized designee shall notify the Regional
               Administrator(or his/her designee) of all violations in accordance with the MOA
               regarding NPDES or UIC permits and the means by which the Commission
               proposes to correct or require the correction of such violations in accordance with
               40 CFR 123.45.

       (3)     It shall not be the defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would
               have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain
               compliance with the conditions of the permit.

E.     Property Rights, All Permits

A permit issued by the Permit Board does not convey any property rights in either real or
personal property, or any exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any injury to private property
or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, State, or local laws or
regulations.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.6 Noncompliance Lists, Plans and Specifications: Submittal Requirements, and
Severability

A.     Noncompliance Lists

The Executive Director shall prepare and submit to the Regional Administrator (or his/her
designee) any lists of facilities in noncompliance as defined and required in 40 CFR 123.45.

B.     Plans and Specifications: Submittal Requirements

       (1)     Plans and specifications for all proposed municipal and domestic sewage
               collection systems, including modifications and additions thereto, must be
               submitted to and approved by the Department prior to beginning construction of
               the proposed system. With the concurrence of the Department, small privately
               owned domestic collection systems (less than 1,500 gpd) may be allowed to
               submit plans and specifications prepared by a licensed plumber or architect.

       (2)     Except as excluded in Rule 1.1.6.B.5, plans and specifications for all proposed
               treatment works must be submitted to the Department for comment prior to
               beginning construction of the proposed works. In addition, plans and
               specifications for all proposed treatment works for which a Department
               administered grant or loan has been made or is to be requested must be approved
               by the Department prior to commencement of construction.

                                                71
(3)   The Department may exempt domestic wastewater facilities with discharges less
      than 1,500 gpd. Commercial and institutional establishments installing treatment
      works which

      (a)    have a design capacity of 1,500 gallons per day or less, and

      (b)    do not and will not involve a Department administered grant or loan, and

      (c)    do not require a UIC permit, will normally not be required to submit plans
             and specifications for the treatment works to the Department.

             However, prior to beginning construction, it is required that the
             Department be advised in writing, of the type and capacity of the system
             to be constructed, and also the location of the discharge point if applicable.

(4)   The Department's receipt, comment, or approval of any document does not relieve
      the project's owner, consulting engineer, contractor, equipment supplier, attorney,
      or any other party of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department approval of or
      comment on any document does not establish or convey any liability or
      responsibility to the Department, nor does such represent any assurances that the
      project will be able to comply with any permit requirements or otherwise
      perform as intended by the owner, consulting engineer, contractor, equipment
      supplier, attorney, or other parties. The permittee is responsible for complying
      with all conditions of a permit and ensuring that all construction, operation, and
      maintenance activities achieve such compliance.

(5)   All equipment, structures, facilities, and/or systems installed in accordance with
      B.1., 2. or 6. of this Rule shall be maintained and operated in accordance with
      A.18 of this Rule.

(6)   Except as excluded in 1.1.6.B.5. of this Rule, not later than 60 days after
      completion of the project, the owner must, through a letter signed by a
      professional engineer, certify to the Department that the project has been
      constructed in accordance with final submitted plans and specifications. Where
      significant changes to the plans and specification have been made, the
      professional engineer must submit a list of changes with the certification letter. In
      addition, as built plans and specifications for all municipal and domestic treatment
      works, and sewage collection systems, must be submitted to the Department not
      later than sixty (60) days after completion of the project.

(7)   All plans and specifications submitted to the Department must be developed by a
      professional engineer who holds a valid certificate of registration as a professional
      engineer issued by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional
      Engineers and Land Surveyors.



                                       72
       (8)     The only permits issued by the Permit Board for wastewater discharges are State
               permits, UIC permits, and NPDES permits. Review and approval of design plans
               and specifications does not constitute authorization to begin construction, and any
               permit applicant who commences construction prior to final Permit Board action
               under Rule 1.1.3.H. builds at his own risk.

       (9)     Plans and specifications shall be developed utilizing fundamental engineering
               principles and approved engineering practices from acceptable engineering
               guidance sources including, but not limited to, Recommended Standards for
               Sewage Works, ("Ten States Standards" and all amendments), text books,
               manuals of practice, technical publications, or other appropriate publications.

       (10)    Plans and specifications that vary from these engineering sources may be
               submitted if the Department determines such plans and specifications are properly
               supported in writing by the consulting engineer. A copy of all plans and
               specifications shall be maintained by the permittee, owner, or operator, whichever
               is responsible for operation and maintenance of the constructed facilities.

       (11)    Any proposed significant changes to approved or submitted plans and
               specifications must be submitted to the Department for approval or comment in
               accordance with 1.1.6.B.1. or 2 of this Rule. Approval of or comment on such
               revised plans and specifications may be secured from the Department either
               before or after construction is initiated, at the discretion of the owner. If the
               owner constructs such changes reflected on the plans and specifications prior to
               securing Department approval or comment, the owner does so at his own risk and
               may be required by the Department to correct any unacceptable changes and/or
               deficiencies.

C.     Severability

If any provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of any of these regulations, or the
application of same to any person or set of circumstances is for any reason challenged or held to
be invalid or void, the validity of the remaining regulations and/or portions thereof or their
application to other persons or sets of circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Subchapter 2: Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations

Rule 1.2.1 Background

The purpose of this rule is to set forth procedures for the determination of limitations to protect
the water quality of the State.

Section 303 of the Federal Act requires the State to develop total maximum daily loads (TMDLs)
for pollutants which will ensure the attainment of water quality standards. Load allocations,

                                                 73
wasteload allocations and consequent effluent limitations will be developed consistent with the
requirements of Section 303 of the Federal Act and all other applicable State statutes.

Source: Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.2 General Requirements.


A.     Applicability

In addition to any technology based surface water effluent limitations required under the
provisions of Rule 1.1.1 of these regulations, all activities and discharges shall also meet water
quality based effluent limitations where necessary to meet water quality standards.

       (1)     A water quality based effluent limitation shall be determined by the Department
               in accordance with this chapter and shall be based upon the characteristics of
               discharge, the receiving water characteristics, the criteria and standards of the
               State's Water Quality Criteria and any other information deemed necessary to
               protect water quality. The applicant may be required to provide the necessary
               information. Requests for zones of mixing and any previously approved zones of
               mixing will be taken into consideration when determining WQBELs. In order for
               a zone of mixing to be provided for any parameter, the applicant must provide the
               necessary characteristics of the discharge either prior to or within a reasonable
               time after the Department has made a request for this information from the
               applicant.

       (2)     The Permit Board may decide not to specify limits in permits required for the
               following:

               (a)     stationary installations created by dredging and/or filling;

               (b)     stationary installations for the discharge of drainage;

               (c)     stationary installations for which best management practices are deemed
                       appropriate; or

               (d)     any other activities the Permit Board deems appropriate.

       (3)     For the activities described in paragraph 2, an applicant shall provide the Permit
               Board with reasonable assurance that the proposed discharge will comply with
               water quality standards. Reasonable assurance may be based upon the following:

               (a)     scientific studies which may include mathematical water quality modeling
                       and/or biological studies; or




                                                 74
           (b)    proposed use of any pollution control technique which assures compliance
                  with water quality standards.

B.   General Technical Guidance

     (1)   The specific pollutants expected to be in a discharge shall be determined from an
           effluent characterization provided by the applicant which may be submitted in the
           appropriate permit application. This characterization may include the long term
           average and daily maximum pollutant concentrations and the ultimate
           biochemical oxygen demand (BODu) for oxygen demanding waste. See Exhibit
           A to this Subchapter.

     (2)   An evaluation of the impact of a proposed or continued discharge on the water
           quality of the receiving water body shall be conducted by the Department for all
           permit applications. The Department shall review applications to determine
           whether Technology Based Effluent Limitations ("TBELs") as contained in
           Commission regulations are sufficient to maintain water quality standards in the
           receiving water body. If TBELs are sufficient, the permit limits will be based on
           those criteria. If TBELs are not protective of water quality standards, or if
           additional information or analyses are determined to be necessary to ensure that
           the effluent will not violate water quality standards in the receiving water body,
           Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations ("WQBELs") shall be considered.

     (3)   The establishment of WQBELs does not alleviate the discharger from complying
           with all other applicable regulations of the Commission or with the requirements
           of any other Mississippi, federal, or local law.

     (4)   Effluent limitations based upon water quality standards and the provisions of
           these regulations shall be determined by application of accepted scientific
           methods. Accepted scientific methods shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
           following:

           (a)    analysis of the condition of the receiving water body including reasonably
                  expected ambient water quality and present and future flow conditions;
                  and

           (b)    consideration of the nature, volume, and frequency of the existing and/or
                  proposed discharge of waste, under which the cumulative impact of
                  discharge is reasonably expected to be a maximum, including any possible
                  known synergistic effects with other pollutants or substances which may
                  be present in the receiving water body.

           (c)    Nothing in a. or b. above, shall preclude the Department from establishing
                  WQBELs that vary on a seasonal or other basis.




                                           75
       (5)     Sanitary sewage shall be disinfected in accordance with the requirements set forth
               in Exhibit "B" to this Subchapter which is attached hereto and incorporated herein
               by reference.

       (6)     For determining TBELS, contaminants in intake water shall be handled in
               accordance with 40 CFR 122.45(g).

       (7)     In all cases, the Department shall be responsible for setting final WLAs, LAs,
               TMDLs, and permit limits and requirements.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.3 WQBEL Process.

A.     Water Quality Based Effluent Limits

The WQBEL process is a means of determining the available assimilative capacity of a water
body and setting WQBELs utilizing appropriate procedures for simulation and prediction of
water quality impacts. This process will be used unless the Department determines there are
adequate data to support a determination that the receiving water body currently meets water
quality standards and will continue to meet water quality standards with the discharge.
Computer models utilized include those approved and supported by the Commission and/or
EPA. The methodologies used for the WQBEL process are found in Exhibit A to this
Subchapter and in Rule 1.2.4 of this chapter. In the event the receiving water body's minimum
flow value used for allocation purposes is zero, permit limitations shall be modeled with the flow
equal to the effluent for conventional pollutants unless otherwise provided in these regulations.
The minimum CBOD model input for WQBEL permit limit determination will be equivalent to
the estimated background conditions for streams (2.0 CBODu) as indicated in Exhibit A.I.J.2.
The permittee may provide the necessary scientific information to support a less stringent limit.

B.     Modeling

Unless actual data or circumstances indicate otherwise, computer modeling is suitable for
developing effluent limitations in water bodies for the cases that follow:

       (1)     sanitary wastewater having an effluent CBOD5 limitation of 30 mg/l to 45 mg/l
               and/or an effluent CBOD5 limitation as defined secondary or equivalent
               secondary requirements;

       (2)     sanitary wastewater having an effluent CBOD5 limitation of less than 30 mg/l but
               greater than or equal to 2 mg/l;

       (3)     all effluent limits developed because of the threat of, or potential for, water
               quality impacts due to toxicants;




                                               76
       (4)     some oxygen demanding wastewaters, other than sanitary wastewater, which are
               generated by industrial processes.

               The State's specific conventional point source water quality modeling and WLA
               criteria, including specific chlorine and ammonia requirements, are located in
               Exhibit A to this Subchapter which is incorporated herein and adopted by
               reference.

C.     Calibration Modeling

Calibration modeling and/or verification modeling and/or a water quality field assessment
(including physical, chemical, and/or biological water quality surveys) may be required for the
determination of WQBELs because of the consideration of factors as follows: the complexity of
the receiving water body, magnitude and impact or potential impact of the discharge, amount of
available data, aquatic life and/or human health concerns, and any other factor deemed necessary
by the Permit Board to protect water quality. The applicant may be required to provide the
necessary information.

D.     WQBEL Process Use

The WQBEL process may be utilized to determine new discharge permit limits and to evaluate
permit renewals when: a. the Department determines existing water quality data is insufficient to
evaluate expected water quality impacts, b. the Department determines the available assimilative
capacity of the water body is being completely utilized, either alone or in combination with other
discharges (including both point and nonpoint sources), c. the Department determines water
quality standards are being violated, or d. when the permittee so chooses (except for the purpose
of delaying implementation of a particular permit limit). The Department may reissue permits
which contain existing permit requirements if the data are adequate to support that the receiving
water body currently meets and will continue to meet water quality standards.

E.     WQBELs Apply to Watershed

When a WQBEL process is determined to be necessary, the analysis shall consider and
determine WQBELs for the permit applicant considering all affected discharger(s) to the
receiving water body, including both point and nonpoint sources.

F.     Quality Assurance

When an applicant is developing and/or conducting a verified and/or calibrated model and/or
conducting a water quality field assessment in the WQBEL process for submittal to the
Department, the applicant shall:

       (1)     Provide the Department a copy of the Quality Management Plan (QMP) for the
               entity performing the work. The QMP should be consistent with the most current
               version of EPA’s Requirements for Quality Management Plan, EPA QA/R-2.



                                               77
       (2)      Coordinate with the Department to determine the information required, including
                accepted methods of data collection and analyses, and quality control/quality
                assurance requirements.

       (3)      Use this information to help develop a Quality Assurance Project Plan (QAPP), or
                its equivalent. The QAPP must be approved in writing by the Department prior to
                beginning work.

       (4)      Failure to comply with the QAPP may result in the Department’s rejection of
                some or all of the data.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.4 Waters Difficult To Model.

A.     Losing flow streams.

Many losing flow streams can and should be modeled to determine effluent limitations. Such
models are only applicable to the point of zero flow.

B.     Lakes.

       (1)      Computerized and/or ecological type models may be used, if appropriate and
                available.

       (2)      For existing discharges, current effluent limits may be appropriate, if ambient
                water quality data indicate water quality standards are met and no nuisance
                conditions associated with the discharge exist.

       (3)      Nutrient budget models may be used to determine if nutrient reductions are
                needed. Nutrient contribution and abatement from both point and nonpoint
                sources shall be considered.

       (4)      Discharges to embayments and coves shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
                However, effluent limitations more stringent than TBEL may be required.

       (5)      Diffuser outfalls for discharges to the main body of a lake may be required when
                needed to eliminate localized water quality impacts.

       (6)      Permit limitations for toxicants shall be determined based upon State, and/or EPA
                recognized, procedures and best professional judgment in accordance with
                applicable law.

C.     Natural Wetlands




                                               78
       (1)     In the absence of site specific water quality standards, effluent limitations for
               discharges to swamps, marshes, bogs, wetlands, etc., shall be determined based
               upon potential or existing physical, chemical, and biological water quality
               impacts.

       (2)     Discharges of sanitary or other oxygen demanding wastewater to natural wetland
               areas must, at a minimum, meet secondary treatment standards.

       (3)     The permittee may be required to monitor biological health of the wetland and the
               water quality of the receiving wetland (pre and post - permitting).

       (4)     No toxic substances shall be discharged in amounts that violate the State's Water
               Quality Standards.

       (5)     For industrial discharges, the ultimate oxygen demand of the wastewater shall
               also be considered when developing permit limitations. Limits equivalent to 30
               mg/l BOD5 or less shall be given to industrial discharges of oxygen demanding
               wastewater to natural wetlands.

D.     Nutrient Enriched Waters.

In case of nutrient enriched waters, data from a water quality field assessment and/or appropriate
models shall be used to determine impact and set effluent limitations.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.5 Special Cases.

A.     Effluent Channels.

       (1)     The standards set forth in the State's Water Quality Standards do not apply to
               effluent channels.

       (2)     Water in effluent channels shall be maintained at a quality which shall prevent the
               occurrence of offensive conditions, protect public health, and allow (after mixing)
               maintenance of all standards applicable to all downstream waters.

B.     Ephemeral Streams.

Effluent limits for ephemeral streams shall be established consistent with the State's Water
Quality Standards.

       (1)     Discharges from a POTW must, at a minimum, meet secondary treatment
               requirements. Industrial discharges must at a minimum meet TBELs.




                                               79
       (2)     Alternative methods may be utilized to determine the potential toxic effect of
               ammonia.

       (3)     Water in ephemeral streams shall be maintained at a quality which shall prevent
               the occurrence of offensive conditions, protect public health, and allow (after
               mixing) maintenance of all standards applicable to all downstream waters.

C.     Dystrophic Waters.

       (1)     Reasonable alternatives, including but not limited to, no discharge and land
               application, shall be considered prior to allowing a new discharge or continuation
               of an existing discharge.

       (2)     Effluent limitations shall be set to allow a degradation of no more than 10% of the
               background concentration when the background dissolved oxygen is at or below
               the State's minimum dissolved oxygen criterion.

       (3)     Discharges shall not increase toxicants above background concentrations for those
               waters whose background exceeds the Water Quality Standards due to natural or
               irretrievable man-induced conditions.

D.     Shellfish Waters.

Waters classified as shellfish waters are generally classified to protect commercially or
recreationally harvestable shellfish resources. The Permit Board shall insure that permitted
discharges are located and have effluent limits such that impacts or potential impacts on the use
of shellfish waters shall be consistent with the National Shellfish Sanitation Program. For areas
with existing dischargers that impact shellfish water, other alternatives may be considered.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.6 Toxicity.

A.     General

       (1)     Purpose and Scope. The purpose of this rule is to set forth a realistic and cost
               effective procedure to screen, evaluate and reduce toxicity of wastewater
               discharges. Additionally, the procedures described herein are designed to ensure
               compliance with the Federal Act.

       (2)     Summary of Procedure. Mississippi uses a three-step approach to toxicity
               reduction. Step one involves a detailed review of the permit application and any
               historical bioassay data and the use of specific screening procedures. The purpose
               of this step is twofold. First of all, the Department identifies the universe of those
               facilities which have discharges which are potentially toxic in stream. The
               Department screening procedures evaluate a discharge's potential acute, chronic,

                                                80
            and human health impact on the receiving stream. Secondly, the Department
            determines whether the data in an application have been submitted in strict
            adherence with EPA accepted analytical procedures with all of the appropriate
            parameters reported.

            The second step involves the development of permit limits in accordance with
            accepted state and national water quality criteria for those facilities exhibiting
            potential toxicity. Permit limits may take the form of chemical specific and/or
            whole effluent toxicity based limits.

            The third step in the process involves additional testing and actual toxicity
            reduction for those facilities which fail any whole effluent toxicity requirements
            included in their permits. Permits addressing whole effluent toxicity have specific
            language requiring the permittee to perform a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation
            (TRE) upon non-compliance with the whole effluent toxicity limitations
            contained in the permit.

B.   Applicability.

     (1)    Chemical Specific Application Data Requirements.

            (a)       These procedures apply to the review of industrial and municipal
                      applications for NPDES permits and pretreatment permits for the
                      permittees which follow:

                      (1)    all primary industries (major and minor);

                      (2)    all major facilities; and

                      (3)    all industrial and municipal facilities for which the application
                             review indicate parameters above accepted quantitation levels.

            (b)       Until such time as the Administrator of EPA promulgates, and the
                      Commission prescribes, an NPDES application form for municipal
                      facilities that addresses section 307(A) toxics, municipalities shall submit
                      as part of their application the appropriate pages from EPA Form 3510-
                      2C. Municipalities shall determine the toxic characteristics of their
                      wastewater by analyzing for the toxic pollutants listed in Table III of
                      Appendix D of 40 CFR 122 which is incorporated herein and adopted by
                      reference.      Metal analysis shall be for total recoverable metals.
                      Additionally, municipalities shall analyze for total hardness (mg/l as
                      CaCO3) and any Section 307(A) toxic listed in an industrial user's
                      pretreatment permit for any industrial category identified in 40 CFR 403,
                      Appendix C which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
                      Municipalities shall submit two influent and two effluent samples



                                               81
             collected each month during the six-month period immediately preceding
             the application submittal deadline date.

(2)   Whole Effluent Toxicity Application Data Requirements.

      (a)    The Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) test requirements for an application
             for renewal of applicable NPDES permits are set forth in Rule 1.1.2.D.

      (b)    Permittees required to perform WET tests as part of their application
             under Rule 1.2.6.B.2.a shall conduct at least four WET tests in the year
             preceding filing of the application. These tests will include two
             samplings, one during the hot-dry season and one during the cold-wet
             season. If the receiving water salinity is less than 1,000 mg/l then
             freshwater testing organisms shall be used. If the Instream Waste
             Concentration (IWC) at low flow is less than one percent, the permittee
             shall perform 48-hour, static non-renewal, definitive (a control and five
             effluent concentrations) acute WET tests at 25°C using Ceriodaphnia
             dubia (invertebrate) that are less than 24 hours old and a 96-hour, static
             renewal (tests that exceed 48 hours in duration must be renewed),
             definitive acute WET test at 25°C using Pimephales promelas (vertebrate)
             that are less than 24 hours old. If the IWC at low flow is greater than or
             equal to one percent, the permittee shall perform chronic WET tests.
             These shall be definitive static renewal tests at 25°C using Ceriodaphnia
             dubia and Pimephales promelas. Acute tests shall be performed in
             accordance with Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to
             Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027),
             or most recent edition and chronic tests shall be performed in accordance
             with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of
             Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
             89/001) or most recent edition. If the receiving water salinity is greater
             than or equal to 1,000 mg/l, then saltwater organisms shall be used. If the
             IWC at low flow is less than one percent, the permittee shall perform 48-
             hour, static non-renewal, definitive acute WET tests at 25°C using
             Americamysis (invertebrate) that are 1-5 days old and a 96-hour, static
             renewal, definitive acute WET test at 25°C using Menidia beryllina. If the
             IWC at low flow is greater than or equal to one percent and the receiving
             water salinity is greater than or equal to 1,000 mg/l, the permittee shall
             perform short-term chronic WET tests at 25°C using Americamysis and
             Menidia beryllina. Acute tests shall be performed in accordance with
             Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and
             Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027), or most recent
             edition, and chronic tests shall be performed in accordance with Short-
             Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and
             Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
             87/028), or most recent edition. All of the above mentioned manuals are
             incorporated herein and adopted by reference. MDEQ will allow a six-

                                     82
                  month grace period for implementation of tests procedures described in
                  the most recent edition of the methods manuals. During this permit,
                  MDEQ will accept test results derived using either procedure, provided
                  the tests are conducted properly. The Permit Board may also require
                  appropriate tests on a plant species, if it deems necessary to protect human
                  health, welfare, or the environment.

           (c)    The Permit Board may require WET testing as a condition of a permit
                  application, as a condition of an NPDES permit, or as a condition of a
                  regulatory order. In the case of a permit modification, WET testing may
                  be required after the implementation of the modification. In addition, a
                  modified application may be required for evaluation of toxicity.

C.   Application/Determination of Alternative Chemical Specific Limitations

     (1)   The Permit Board shall issue NPDES permits with limits based on total
           recoverable metals, when appropriate, as specified in 40 CFR 122.45, which is
           incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

     (2)   Alternative Chemical specific limitations for permits shall be calculated in
           accordance with the methods set forth below.

           (a)    The first method is the establishment of a site specific Biological
                  Translator that relates the existing water quality standard to a specific
                  permit limit using the water effects ratio (WER) procedure described in
                  Interim Guidance on Determination and Use of Water Effects Ratios for
                  Metals February 1994 EPA No. 823-B-94-001, Streamlined Water-Effect
                  Ratio Procedure for Discharge of Copper March 2001 EPA No. 822-R-01-
                  005 or the most recent edition.

           (b)    The second method, applicable to metals, is the development of a
                  Chemical Translator using site specific data to determine the dissolved
                  fraction of the permitted metals. The water quality criterion is then
                  divided by the dissolved fraction to provide a value to be used in the
                  WLA. Two methods are available to the permittee for calculating the
                  dissolved fraction.

                  (1)    The dissolved fraction may be calculated from site specific Total
                         Suspended Solids (TSS) data and partitioning coefficients listed in
                         the Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Wasteload
                         Allocations. Book II: Streams and Rivers. Chapter 3 (EPA-440/4-
                         84-022) which is referenced in the bibliography (Exhibit F to this
                         Chapter).




                                           83
             (i)     The Linear Partition Coefficient is calculated from Table 5-
                     4 in the Technical Guidance Manual using the following
                     formula:

                        K p = K po * TSS a

      Where: Kp    = Linear Partition Coefficient
      Kpo = Regression Coefficient (from table)
      TSS = Total Suspended Solids Concentration (site specific 15th
              percentile)
      a     = Exponent Constant (from table)

             (ii)    The Dissolved Fraction is then calculated as follows:

                    C            1
                      =
                    CT 1 + K p * TSS *10 −6

      Where: C/CT = Dissolved Fraction of metal

      (2)    Alternately, the permittee may determine the dissolved fraction
             directly by analyzing paired samples of site water for dissolved and
             total recoverable metals using EPA's "clean" analytical techniques
             and sampling procedures. This determination may be made in one
             of two ways.

             (i)     Collect four paired samples during the low flow period,
                     defined as no greater than twice the 7Q10, analyze paired
                     samples of site water for dissolved and total recoverable
                     metals using EPA's "clean " analytical techniques and
                     sampling procedures, take the arithmetic mean of the four
                     analyses, and calculate the dissolved fraction based on the
                     mean values for dissolved and total recoverable metals.

             (ii)    Collect 20 paired samples on randomly selected dates
                     throughout the year, analyze as described in (2)(i) above,
                     calculate the dissolved fraction for each sampling, and use
                     the 95th percentile highest dissolved fraction.

      (3)    The permittee is responsible for providing all the site specific data
             needed for these calculations.

(c)   The third method is to assume that there is no difference between the
      dissolved and total recoverable metals concentrations.



                               84
           (3)      If the permittee opts to utilize methods a. and b. listed above, the results from
                    method a. will be applied since it is a more comprehensive procedure compared to
                    the relatively simple calculation of the dissolved fraction.

           (4)      If the permittee does not opt to utilize methods a. or b., method c. shall be applied.

           (5)      The application of any translator derived limitation does not preclude the
                    demonstration of toxicity requirements for other toxicants through the use of
                    WET tests as specified in the permit.

D.         Procedures for Chemical Specific Screening.

           (1)      Review data submitted with application (e.g. NPDES - 2C, 2D and 2E,
                    Pretreatment - State No Discharge Application)

                    Identify every toxic parameter in the permit and/or application above quantitation
                    levels 1 and set up a table for each outfall, listing for each parameter the
                    following2:

                    (a)      maximum concentration;

                    (b)      maximum 30-day average;

                    (c)      long term average; and

                    (d)      number of samples.

                             The following calculation conventions shall be utilized when using data
                             reported as non-detect or less than detection:

                             (1) Non-detect (ND) or less than at the appropriate quantitation levels
                                 - use zero.

                             (2) If all data in the permit application are below quantitation levels, the
                                 permittee should list the individual non-detect value with the highest
                                 detection level reported as the maximum and not calculate an average.

                                 The Department will not consider an application complete if the
                                 concentrations required are reported as "N.D." (Not Detected) unless a


1
 Where application form data are reported as "less than" (<) compare the method detection limit (MDL) as defined
in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136 which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. MDLs will be utilized in
determining the reasonable potential of a given pollutant to violate water quality criteria. If a pollutant is reported as
"non-detectable" above the MDLs as defined in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136, the pollutant will be assumed to be
present at that reported level of sensitivity.
2
    Note in some cases parameters limited by the permit may be below the minimum quantitation level.

                                                           85
                                chemical by chemical listing of the quantitation levels used is provided
                                with the application.

          (2)     Calculate/Determine Permit Limits.

                  Technology/federal guidelines based permit limits are calculated using current
                  facility data and federal guidelines. If existing permit limits are more stringent
                  and are being attained, use existing permit limits.

          (3)     Calculate Appropriate Flows

                  Appropriate 7Q10 and annual average flows will be calculated in accordance with
                  the methods found in Techniques for Estimating 7-Day, 10-Year Low-Flow
                  Characteristics for Ungaged Sites on Streams in Mississippi (USGS Report 91-
                  4130), and Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams
                  (USGS Report 90-4087) or the most recent edition, respectively.

          (4)     Determine IWC for Chronic, Acute, and Human Health Conditions3
                                                      Qw
                                      IWC = 100 *
                                                   Qr + Qw

Where: IWC =        Instream Wastewater Concentration (where facility water supply is not
receiving water.)
Qr4     = Receiving water flow at appropriate low flow
Qw      = For non-domestic facilities - Maximum 30-day average wastewater flow, if available;
Domestic facilities - design flow; Hydrographic control release facilities - appropriate
wastewater to stream flow ratio.


3
  For calculation of all instream waste concentrations, and instream pollutant concentrations for chronic toxicity and
human health screening, instantaneous complete mixing will be assumed unless addressed otherwise in the
regulations. IWC is expressed in a percentage throughout these regulations. For acute screening in streams and
rivers, complete mixing will be assumed if the IWC is greater than or equal to 10%. If the IWC is less than 10%, the
Permit Board may evaluate local acute toxic impacts and require application of mixing zones in accordance with the
Mississippi Water Quality Standards.

For oceans, bays, estuaries, and lakes, a Mixing Zone evaluation will be completed to determine the appropriate
dilution factors for calculating IWC at the edge of the (regulatory) mixing zone and at the edge of the smaller area of
discharged-induced mixing zone (ADIM). In the absence of a site specific evaluation, dilution at the edge of the
mixing zone will be assumed to be one part effluent to six parts receiving water body. Mixing zones and associated
instream calculations shall be performed as described in EPA's "Technical Support Document for Water Quality-
Based Toxics Control" (EPA/505/2-90-001) March 1991, which is referenced in the bibliography (Exhibit F to this
chapter).

4
    Where Qr      =        (7Q10 for Acute)
                  =        (7Q10 for Chronic)
                  =        (Mean annual flow for Human Health)
If 7Q10 = 0 then Qr = 7Q10 for conditions except for human health and then Q r equals mean annual flow if available.


                                                         86
            (5)     Develop acute, chronic, and human health tables listing parameters, Xw, Xwa, Xta,
                    and appropriate criteria.
                                              (Q * X r ) + (Qw * X w )
                                         Xt = r
                                                    Qr + Qw
Where: IWC = Instream Wastewater Concentration (where facility water supply is not
        receiving water)
Qw      = maximum 30-day average wastewater flow, if available
Qr      = receiving stream flow
Xr      = receiving stream concentration
Xw      = historical effluent data
Xwa     = permit limits from previous permit or from effluent guidelines
Xta     = the calculated instream concentration based on existing permit limits or the calculated
limit based on current effluent guidelines
Xt      = the calculated instream concentration based on historical effluent data from application

If IWC is < one percent, do not develop the chronic table.

If Qr = 0 then Xt = Xw * IWC/100

NOTE:               To calculate Xta substitute Xwa for Xw Xwa = Permit Limit

Where:              Number of samples is >12 & 7Q10 is >0 then;

            TABLE                      Xw 5, 6                         Qr                     Xr7
    Acute                       Maximum                         7Q10                Instream Background
                                Concentration                                       Concentration
    Chronic                     Long Term Average               7Q10                Instream Background
                                Concentration                                       Concentration
    Human Health                Long Term Average               Mean Annual         Instream Background
                                Concentration                                       Concentration

The appropriate criteria to use in each table are as follows:
  IWC                   Acute                              Chronic                           Human Health
 >1%     Compare Xt and Xta to Acute          Compare Xt and Xta to Chronic                  TSD
         Water Quality Criterion Value Water Quality Criterion Value
 <1%     Same as above                        Do Not Compare                                 Same as above


5
    from 2C application and/or other appropriate data sources

6
  if number of samples is <12 then Xw = (appropriate concentration * 10). The permittee may request utilization of
alternative methods for determining reasonable potential set forth in the Technical Support Document for Water
Quality-Based Toxics Control (EPA/505/2-90-001) or its amendments (TSD), subject to prior Permit Board review
and approval of the method's implementation.
7
    if no instream background concentration exists Xr = 0

                                                            87
A parameter fails the screen when the appropriate instream concentration or effluent
concentration (as per above) exceeds the appropriate criterion.

MDEQ will use the chronic and acute water quality criteria and/or values as described in State of
Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters. If the
permittee's discharge evaluation is based on species not found in Mississippi, the permittee may
submit an alternative criterion as per the State's Water Quality Standards. However, said
criterion shall conform to EPA's accepted procedures / rationale and is subject to both State and
EPA approval.

E.     Toxicity Limits.

Chemical specific limits shall be placed in a permittee's permit if any of the parameters evaluated
in the toxic screening procedure indicate the reasonable potential for violation of the appropriate
criteria (Acute, Chronic, and Human Health). The only exception is when a permittee fails the
criteria due only to the application of the variability factor, that is a number of samples less than
12. In the case of the preceding exception, the permittee shall be required to monitor those
parameters at a frequency of at least once per month for twelve months with the toxicity
screening procedures being reapplied and the permit modified accordingly. The limits for the
subject parameters will not be established until the subject data is received.

Toxicity limitations may take two forms; (1) chemical specific numerical limitations placed on
the effluent, and/or (2) whole effluent bioassays with whole effluent toxicity (WET) limits.
Chemical numerical limits will be calculated by mass balance back to the effluent using the
appropriate instream criteria. The Permit Board will consider the utilization of alternative
approaches described in EPA's TSD for calculating WQBELs where sufficient supporting
documentation is submitted by the applicant. Mixing zones may be utilized in certain
circumstances as allowed in the "State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate,
Interstate, and Coastal Waters".

In the absence of WET testing data, WET monitoring will be required upon failure of the acute
or chronic chemical specific criteria screening. Failure of WET testing will be a basis for permit
WET limitations. Failure will be defined as follows: an acute test that results in an LC50 < 3 *
IWC, or a chronic test that results in an IC25 < IWC. The IC25 refers to the Inhibition
Concentration 25, which shall be defined as a point estimate of the effluent concentration that
would cause a 25% reduction in a non-lethal biological measurement of the test organisms, such
as reproduction or growth.

The establishment of a WET limit versus WET monitoring shall be in accordance with 40 CFR
122.44(d), which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. If chronic toxicity is
indicated, the permit shall limit toxicity by requiring the IC25 of the effluent to equal or exceed
the IWC. When acute toxicity is indicated, the toxicity limit will take the following form:

                    Effluent 48-hour LC50 > 3 * IWC (not to exceed 100%)


                                                 88
                                    TOXICITY SCREENING MATRIX
                               Screening Results             Permit Requirements
     IWC                                               8
                     CSSA            CSSC        WET     CSL        WETL       WETM
      All            Pass            Pass        Pass    No           No         No
     <1%             Pass            Pass         Fail   No          YesA        N/A
                      Fail           Pass         Fail   Yes         YesA        N/A
                      Fail           Pass        Pass    Yes          No         No8
     >1%              Fail           Fail         Fail   Yes         YesC        N/A
                      Fail           Fail        Pass    Yes          No         No8
                     Pass            Fail         Fail   Yes         YesC        N/A
                     Pass            Fail        Pass    Yes          No         No8
                      Fail           Pass         Fail   Yes         YesC        N/A
                      Fail           Pass        Pass    Yes          No         No8

Where:
CSSA = Chemical Specific Screening Acute
CSSC = Chemical Specific Screening Chronic
WET = Whole Effluent Toxicity Data
CSL = Chemical Specific Limits= WQS/(IWC/100)
WETL = Whole Effluent Toxicity Limits W/Monitoring
WETM = Whole Effluent Toxicity Monitoring Only
YesA = Yes/Acute WET Limit = LC50 = 3 * IWC
YesC = Yes/Chronic WET Limit = IC25 = IWC
N/A = Not Applicable
YAM = Yes, Acute WET Monitoring Only
YCM    = Yes, Chronic Monitoring Only
Pass = Acute: LC50 > 3 * IWC
       = Chronic: IC25 > IWC
Fail = Acute: LC50 < 3 * IWC
       = Chronic IC25 < IWC

Human health shall be evaluated in accordance with "USEPA, Technical Support Document".
When a parameter violates the human health criteria either for "water and organisms" or
"organisms only", as appropriate, numerical limitations shall be placed in the permit.

F.       Screening Storm Water Discharges

         (1)      General



8
 Where application form data are reported as "less than" (<) compare the method detection limit (MDL) as defined
in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136 which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. MDLs will be utilized in
determining the reasonable potential of a given pollutant to violate water quality criteria. If a pollutant is reported as
"non-detectable" above the MDLs as defined in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136, the pollutant will be assumed to be
present at that reported level of sensitivity.

                                                           89
               (a)    Purpose and Scope. The purpose of this rule is to set forth procedures
                      used to determine individual storm water permit limits for toxics and
                      conventional parameters. Only storm water associated with industrial
                      activity is considered. Process wastewaters are addressed elsewhere in
                      these regulations. The ultimate goal of setting individual storm water
                      permit limits is to reduce pollutants in storm water runoff in order to
                      protect receiving stream water quality.

               (b)    Methods of Limits Determination. Due to high variability of storm water
                      volume, only concentration limits will be determined by one or a
                      combination of the procedures which follow:

                      (1)    Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG);

                      (2)    Water Quality Standards (WQS); and

                      (3)    Best Professional Judgment (BPJ).

               (c)    Wet Weather Flow for Streams with Gaging Stations. For streams with a
                      gaging station, the 7Q2 will be used. The value of the 7Q2 is readily
                      available in the USGS Water-Resources Investigations Report 90-4087,
                      Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams,
                      1991.

Calculation:

                                                          SWA
                                Q = Site7Q2 = Gage7Q2 *
                                                          GWA
Where:
SWA = Site Watershed Area
GWA = Gage Watershed Area

               (d)    Wet Weather Flow for Other Streams and Industrial Sites.
                      For both small watersheds without gaging data and industrial sites, the
                      stream flow and site runoff will be estimated using the Rational Equation,
                      assuming the average storm event intensity over the entire area. The
                      Rational Equation is:

                                            Q = C*I * A
Where:
Q      = the flow in cfs,
C      = the runoff coefficient,
I      = the rainfall intensity in inches/hour, and
A      = area in acres.



                                               90
The conversion factor to cfs is slightly less than 1.01 and is generally ignored. Attached to Rule
1.1.2 collectively as Exhibit "C" and incorporated herein by reference is a table of runoff
coefficients and a map showing average storm event intensity over Mississippi. The area is
estimated using GIS software applications.

Calculation:

                             Q = I * ((C1 * A1 ) + (C2 * A2 ) + ....)

For large watersheds without an applicable gaging station, Best Professional Judgment (BPJ)
will be used.

       (2)     Stormwater Limits Determination

               (a)    Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG)


                     (1) The Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), Title 40, provides effluent
                         limitations guidelines that address storm water discharges for the
                         following facilities: Cement Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 411);
                         Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFO) (40 CFR Part 412);
                         Fertilizer Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 418); Petroleum Refining (40
                         CFR Part 419); Iron and Steel Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 420);
                         Phosphate Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 422); Steam Electric (40 CFR
                         Part 423); Bleached Papergrade Kraft and Soda Subcategory of the Pulp,
                         Paper and Paperboard (40 CFR Part 430) Meat and Poultry Products (40
                         CFR Part 432); Coal Mining (40 CFR Part 434); Oil and Gas (40 CFR
                         Part 435); Mineral Mining and Processing (40 CFR Part 436);
                         Centralized Waste Treatment Point Source (40 CFR Part 437); Metal
                         Products and Machinery (40 CFR Part 438); Pharmaceutical
                         Manufacturing (40 CFR Part 439); Ore Mining and Dressing (40 CFR
                         Part 440); Transportation Equipment Cleaning (40 CFR Part 442);
                         Asphalt Emission (40 CFR Part 443);.and Concentrated Aquatic Animal
                         Production (40 CFR Part 451). All of the foregoing CFR parts are
                         incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

                     (2) When limits are given in the CFR, they are generally concentration
                         values in mg/l. These concentration values will be used for the permit
                         limits if protective of human health, welfare, or the environment.

                     (3) When concentration limits are not given in the CFR, Water Quality
                         Standards and/or best professional judgment will be used to determine
                         the facility's discharge limits.

               (b)    Water Quality Standards (WQS).


                                               91
                      In determining limits for an Individual Storm Water Permit, a distinction
                      is made between conventional pollutants and priority toxic pollutants (i.e.,
                      metals, organic chemicals, etc.). For oxygen demanding pollutants the
                      Storm Water Section, after making preliminary determinations for wet
                      weather flows, will request a wasteload allocation determination from the
                      Surface Water Division to establish limits for oxygen demanding
                      pollutants. For toxics, including metals and organic chemicals, MDEQ
                      will calculate limits at wet weather flows in two steps as follows:

                      (1)    Determine stream and facility storm water flow rates:

                             (i)       for streams with a gaging station, determine the site 7Q2
                                       stream flow by use of the following equation:
                                                                 SWA
                                   Q = Site7Q2 = Gage7Q2 *
                                                                 GWA
Where:
SWA = Site Watershed Area
GWA = Gage Watershed Area


                             (ii)      for small watersheds without a gaging station, measure the
                                       watershed area using GIS computer software applications.
                                       An appropriate runoff coefficient, C, for the entire
                                       watershed region is used. The average storm event
                                       intensity, I, is used. The stream flow rate is calculated as
                                       follows:

                                          QW S = C * I * AW S



Where:
Qws    = flow from the watershed in cfs
Aws    = Area in acres
I      = average storm event intensity in inches per hour
C      = appropriate runoff coefficient
WS     = watershed


                             (iii)     Storm water flow rate from the industrial site can be
                                       estimated by using the procedure set forth in (ii) above.
                                       The drainage areas (pervious and impervious) are reported
                                       in the application.

                             QIndustry = I * ((C1 * A1 ) + (C2 * A2 ) + ....)


                                                   92
                          (2)      Calculate Permit Limits. Using the flows determined under Rule
                                   1.2.6.F.2.b and the Mississippi, or EPA (when there is no State
                                   criteria) Water Quality Criteria for Toxic Pollutants, calculate
                                   maximum allowable concentrations in the storm water runoff for
                                   all parameters of concern. Since the acute water quality criteria are
                                   based on 96 hours exposure and the EPA storm water sampling
                                   protocol requires first 30 minutes of grab and 3 hours of composite
                                   samples during a storm after 72 hours of dry weather, only the
                                   acute criterion will be used to establish permit limits. Also, the
                                   average storm event duration in Mississippi is about 8 hours.
Calculation:

                                                            QI + QS
                                            PL = CMC *
                                                              QI
Where:
PL     = Permit Limit
CMC = Criteria Maximum Concentration (Acute)
QI     = Flow from industry
QS     = Flow from stream

        When the model or calculated limit is higher than the maximum concentration reported
        on the 2F application, the permit will generally only require monitoring.

                 (c)      Best Professional Judgment

When there are no ELG or WQS numeric limitations or standards, BPJ will be used to set permit
limits or to require Best Management Practices (BMPs) to protect water quality.

G.      Determining Compliance with Non-Detect or Below Detection Limitations.

It is recognized that the calculated limits for specific chemicals may be below the analytical
minimum quantitation level for the pollutant of concern. However, in this case the permit limit
will be this calculated value. In such cases, compliance with the permit limits shall be
determined as follows:

        (1)      The permit will specify the analytical procedure to be used.

        (2)      The guidelines establishing test procedures for the analysis of pollutants set forth
                 in 40 CFR Part 136 are incorporated herein and adopted by reference and as
                 hereinafter amended. The weblink to 40 CFR Part 136 follows:

http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title40/40cfr136_main_02.tpl




                                                       93
      (3)    The MQL is the lowest concentration at which a particular substance can be
             quantitatively measured, and is defined analytically as the lowest concentration
             used in the calibration of the measurement system.

      (4)    Any sample result reported as "non-detected" or "less than" the MQL shall be
             entered as zero.

             The following language shall be placed in permits:

             If the results for a given sample analysis are such that any parameter (Other than
             fecal coliform, enterococci, e coli) is not detected at or above the minimum level
             for the test method used, a value of zero will be used for that sample in
             calculating an arithmetic mean value for the parameter. If the resulting calculated
             arithmetic mean value for that reporting period is zero, the permittee shall report
             "NODI=B" on the DMR. For fecal coliform and other pollutants that are based
             on calculating a geometric mean, a value of 1.0 shall be used in calculating the
             geometric mean. If the resulting fecal coliform mean value is 1.0, the permittee
             shall report "NODI=B" on the DMR. For each quantitative sample value that is
             not detectable, the test method used and the minimum level for that method for
             that parameter shall be attached to and submitted with the DMR. The permittee
             shall then be considered in compliance with the appropriate effluent limitation
             and/or reporting requirement.

             Permits will specify the appropriate analytical method, based on the appropriate
             sensitivity. Permittees must then report results based on data containing
             acceptable calibration points at least as low as the MQL.

H.    Bioassay Language/Monitoring,

Exhibit "D", which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, represents the
standard bioassay language placed in NPDES permits for chronic and acute bioassays,
respectively. The fundamentals of the bioassay monitoring requirements are as follows:

      (1)    Duration

             Biomonitoring is for the life of the NPDES permit. Assuming compliance with
             the toxic limits, monitoring is at a frequency of once per quarter for the first
             twelve months for industrial and municipal permittees and semi-annually
             thereafter. The sampling frequency during compliance monitoring shall be at
             least twice per year unless specified otherwise elsewhere in these regulations, and
             sampling shall be timed to include the seasonal extremes of the year (hot-dry and
             cold-wet).

      (2)    Species

             At least two species (one vertebrate and one invertebrate) must be used.

                                             94
       (3)    Procedures

              Permittee must use the most current EPA accepted procedures.           Procedural
              references are specified in the bioassay language.

       (4)    Non-Compliance

              A permitted facility shall be considered in non-compliance when it fails any
              bioassay subject to a WET limit. Once a permittee fails a WET test, the permittee
              shall conduct a second WET test. For chronic tests, the second Chronic WET test
              must be completed within 30 days following completion of the failed test. For
              acute tests, the second WET test must be completed within two weeks of the
              completion of the failed test. Results must be submitted to the Department within
              two weeks of test completion. If the permittee fails the second WET test, then the
              permittee shall submit a preliminary Toxicity Reduction Evaluation Plan (TREP)
              within 45 days, following completion of the follow-up test, the first step of which
              shall be increased monitoring to determine the characteristics of the toxicity. If
              the permittee passes the second WET test, the permittee shall conduct the next
              WET test at the regularly scheduled frequency in the permit. Repeated failure of
              the WET tests may result in the Permit Board increasing the frequency of WET
              testing. The Commission will determine the appropriate enforcement response in
              accordance with existing enforcement policy.

       (5)    Quality Assurance/Quality Control

              A permittee must submit with each WET test result a completed OPC NPDES
              Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report form prescribed by the Commission
              (included in Exhibit "D").

I.     Attaining Compliance with WQBELS.

Whenever a new WQBEL is imposed in a permit, the permittee shall have no more than three
years in which to achieve compliance with such limitations. A permittee may apply to the
Permit Board for a variance from the compliance schedule.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.7 Bibliography.

Exhibit "F" is attached hereto for reference only as a bibliography. The documents contained in
the bibliography are not incorporated by reference. The Department may utilize any document
duly promulgated through the Federal Administrative Procedures Act and any other document
which contains scientifically defensible procedures.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

                                              95
EXHIBIT A to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - EMPIRICAL WATER BODY MODEL
ASSUMPTIONS FOR CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANTS AND CONVENTIONAL
WATER QUALITY MODELS

I.  EMPIRICAL STREAM, LAKE, and ESTUARY MODEL ASSUMPTIONS FOR
CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANTS

A.     7Q10 Flow Values

1.     The 7Q10 flow in unregulated, natural streams is to be determined from Low-flow and
Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams, U.S.G.S., Report 90-4087 (hereinafter
"Report 90-4087") or the most recent update of this publication.

2.     7Q10 value of a gage will be used directly if gaging station is at or near the point of
discharge.

3.      7Q10 flow coefficients (7Q10 value in CFS/drainage area in square miles) of a gaging
station will be used to calculate a 7Q10 value for a point discharge if there is a gaging station on
the stream or on a nearby stream. An average 7Q10 flow coefficient may be used if there is more
than one nearby gaging station.

4.     7Q10 flow coefficients can be taken from Report 90-4087 if no gaging station is available.
The value will be assumed to be in the middle of the given range.

5.     A 7Q10 flow coefficient of 0.0 cfs will be used for intermittent streams or when the
Report 90-4087 lists the 7Q10 flow coefficient as less than 0.01 cfs per square mile.

6.      The annual 7Q10 flow will be used for seasonal winter allocations, unless data is available
to determine seasonal or monthly 7Q10 flows.

7.     Semi-annual, quarterly or monthly 7Q10 flows with their respective average maximum
temperatures may be used to determine various seasonal wasteload allocations.

8.     In regulated streams the legally guaranteed minimum flow will be used for allocations
unless otherwise provided in these regulations.

9.     Spatially distributed flow will be included to account for flow gained at 7Q10 from
sources other than major tributaries.

10.    Spatial flow will be calculated between gaging stations if available.

11.     Spatial flows will be determined by using 7Q10 flow coefficients where sufficient gaging
stations are not available.




                                                96
12.   Spatial flow will be included at equal increments over the length of a given stream
segment.

B.     7Q2 Flow Values

The 7Q2 flow in unregulated, natural streams will be used in conjunction with the other
assumptions contained herein for establishing permit limitations for storm water permits. The
7Q2 flow will be determined from Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi
Streams, U.S.G.S., Report 90-4087 or the most recent update of this publication. In cases in
which either (1) the data is indefinite or inconclusive, or (2) the 7-day, 2-year minimum flow
and/or the 7-day, 10-year minimum flow are inappropriate because of the hydrology of the area,
other appropriate State and federal agencies will be consulted in establishing the applicable
stream flow.

C.     Temperature

The criteria for temperature selection are as follows:

1.      For streams for which sufficient temperature data is available, the design temperature will
be the average daily maximum temperature for the months of July and August.

2.     For streams with insufficient or no temperature data, the following will be assumed:

          Stream Size                 Annual          Summer (May-Oct)      Winter (Nov-April)
 Streams with minimum low
                                       30°C                    30°C                 20°C
 flows > 300 cfs
 Streams with minimum low
                                       28°C                    28°C                 20°C
 flows > 50 cfs and < 300 cfs
 Streams with minimum low
                                       26°C                    26°C                 20°C
 flows < 50 cfs

D.     Velocity

Time-of-travel measurements will be used when available. Average reach velocity can be
determined by completion of a dye tracer study. A minimum velocity of 0.1 fps will be used.

Estimation Procedures:
                                                            S 0.1
                                      V = 0.127 * QAct
                                                   0.69
                                                        *    0.24
                                                            QAvg

where:                          V = (0.144 * Q   0.4
                                                 Act   * S 0.2 ) − 0.19
V      = velocity in fps
QAct = 7Q10 + discharge flow in cfs
S      = stream slope in ft./mile
QAvg = the average stream flow in cfs


                                                 97
E.     Depth

Depth will be used if accurate stream depth profiles are available as determined by measurement
or available flood plain maps. For larger, slow-moving rivers, depths may also be estimated. In
the WASP models, minimum depth will be one-half of the estimated or measured depth.

F.     Slope

1.      Stream slope determinations will be made from GIS computer software, NHD Plus
values, USGS quad maps, or flood plain reports.

2.    Stream slope profiles will be analyzed (elevation vs. mile) to determine if the slope
changes along the stream length being modeled.

3.     Model stream segments will correspond to noticeable stream slope changes.

G.     Kd (Carbonaceous Deoxygenation Rate)

1.      When usable field data are not available, the stream's Kd rate will be based on both the
type of wastewater, type of treatment and/or the instream CBODu concentration.

2.     The temperature correction equation is:

                                 Kd (T ) = Kd (20 C) *1.047 T −20

3.     When instream CBODu values approach background conditions the Kd rate will be set to
0.15/day and the ratio of Ka/Kd = 2 or Ka = 0.3/day.

4.     When actual data are available, the Kd rate will be determined according to the
procedures outlined in Rates, Constants, and Kinetics Formulations in Surface Water Quality
Modeling (Second Edition), EPA/600/3-85/040 or most current version.

5.    Kd is assumed equal to Kr (overall rate of CBODu removal from the water column) in
most model applications.

6.     Normally, a laboratory-derived “bottled” CBODu decay rate taken from the effluent only
(Kl) will not be used in modeling. Typically, an instream decay rate will be used for modeling
purposes.

7.      Kd = 0.3/day (base e) at 20°C will be used for streams receiving upgraded lagoon
effluent (single or multi-cell lagoons upgraded with sand filters, artificial wetlands, etc.).

8.     The following clarification can be used in the estimation procedure for Kd, CBODu rate.




                                                 98
     Type of            Instream CBODu          Instream CBOD5*           Kd (base e @ 20°C)
    Treatment                 (mg/l)                  (mg/l)                    (day-1)
 Lagoon
                               > 15                     >10                           0.6
 (CBOD5=30)
 Lagoon
                           < 15 and > 7            < 10 and > 4.7                     0.4
 (CBOD5=30)
 Lagoon
                                <7                     < 4.7                          0.3
 (CBOD5=30)
 Mechanical
                                >7                     > 4.7                          0.4
 (CBOD5<30)
 Mechanical
                                <7                     < 4.7                          0.3
 (CBOD5>10)
 Mechanical
                                 -                        -                           0.3
 (CBOD5<10)

Note these values are estimates. If actual data are available, they should be used.

H.     Kn (Nitrogenous Deoxygenation Rate)

1.     Kn has been found to range from 0.3 to 1.5 per day (at 20°C) in free-flowing streams
containing greater than 2 to 3 mg/l of dissolved oxygen. Impounded streams or streams with low
DO levels will exhibit Kn's as low as 0.0 to 0.3 per day.

2.      In the absence of measured values, Kn (base e @ 20°C) will be assumed as 0.3 per day
for streams with slope less than or equal to 20 ft./mile and 0.5 per day for streams with slope
greater than 20 ft./mile. When actual data are available, the Kn rate will be determined
according to the procedures outlined in EPA/600/3-85/040.

I.     Ka (Reaeration Rate)

1.      For small streams in Mississippi the most appropriate formula for calculating the
reaeration coefficient is the one developed by E. C. Tsivoglou.

                                          Ka = C * S *V
Where:
Ka     = reaeration rate, 1/day
C      = escape coefficient, 1/ft.
S      = slope, ft./mile
V      = velocity, mile/day

2.     Assume escape coefficients recommended for Mississippi.

(a)    C = 0.11 for stream flow less than 10 cfs

(b)    C = 0.0597 for greater than or equal to 10 cfs to a stream flow less than 280 cfs


                                                99
3.       O'Conner-Dobbins equation may be used for streams with depths greater than 5 feet and
where there are adequate stream depth profiles or reasonable estimates available. If stream flow
is less than 280 cfs, Tsivoglou escape coefficient values should be considered.

                                               12 .9 *V 0.5
                                        Ka =
                                                   D1.5
where:
V      = velocity in ft./sec.
D      = depth in ft.
Ka     = reaeration rate 1/day (base e @ 20°C).

4.    A minimum Ka value of 0.15/day will be used except in the case mentioned under Kd
where Ka/Kd is not less than 2.

5.     In the WASP model COVAR may be considered.

J.     Stream Background Conditions

Assume the following stream background conditions unless data show otherwise.

1.     DO = 85% of saturation at assumed stream temperature (table attached)

2.     CBODU = 2.0 mg/l

3.     CBOD5 = 1.33 mg/l

4.     NBODU = 0.5 mg/l

5.     NH3-N = 0.10 mg/l

K.     Photosynthesis / Respiration

1.     Input values for P and R (mg/l/day) can be determined in stream studies using the:

(a)    Delta Method

(b)    Diurnal Curve Method

(c)    Light/Dark Bottle Method

2.    In the absence of field data, P and R will be assumed to be 0.0 mg/l/day.             This
assumption will be reevaluated for streams dominated by algae.

L.     Sediment Oxygen Demand



                                               100
1.      In the STREAM Model, sediment oxygen demand ("SOD") (mg/l/day) will be assumed
to be 0.0. In WASP and other dynamic models, SOD rates may be used to calibrate the model.
All values used for SOD rates will be within normal ranges found in the ecoregion being
modeled.

2.     Where SOD rates have been determined or sludge blankets are known to exist, SOD will
be incorporated in models.

3.     SOD rates in g/m2/day will be converted to mg/l/day according to the following equation:

                                            B(1000 mg / g )
                      SOD =
                              H (0.3048 meters / ft.) * (1000 liters / meter 3 )


where:
S      = SOD rate in mg/l/day @ 20°C
B      = SOD rate in g/m2/day @ 20°C
H      = average reach depth in feet

M.     Wastewater Inputs

1.      The Department’s water quality model, STREAM uses first order kinetics to characterize
ultimate CBOD decay. Once effluent limits are set using this model, CBOD5 will be determined
for inclusion in the permit.

2.     The following ultimate CBOD to CBOD5 ratios will be used when actual data are not
available.

Wastewater                                    Ratio
Sanitary (mechanical secondary)               1.5
Sanitary (advanced)                           2.3
Food Processing                               3.0
Meat/Poultry Processing                       2.5
Pulp/Paper                                    5.0
Tannery                                       3.0
Textile                                       3.0

3.     Industries will be encouraged to provide actual ultimate CBODU and NBODU values for
the wastewater under evaluation. The method of choice for determining these values will be the
method outlined by NCASI in Ultimate Oxygen Demand (Biochemical), NE87-03.

4.      The model uses first order kinetics to characterize oxidizable nitrogen or NBODU decay.
Wastewater inputs/outputs are NH3-N (as nitrogen). The value is converted to oxygen demand
using the factor 4.57.




                                                101
N.     Disinfection

1.      Bacteria allocations for effluents will be assigned so as to meet the State's water quality
standards for the designated use of the receiving water. A background coliform concentration of
200#/100 ml will be assumed in fresh water at the low-flow condition, unless site-specific data
taken from an upstream site, approved by the Department, during a low-flow event indicates that
another background level should be used.

2.     Marine waters (recreational salt-waters) will have a background concentration of 35
colonies/100 ml at the low-flow condition, unless site-specific data taken from the water body,
approved by the Department, during a low-flow event indicates that another background level
should be used.

3.     Allocations will be derived according to the following dilution mix equation:

                                           (CT * QT ) − (CH * QH )
                                    CE =
                                                     QE
where:
CE     = allowable effluent bacteria concentration in colonies /100ml
QE     = daily average effluent flow in cfs
CH     = headwater bacteria concentration of 200 colonies /100ml
QH     = headwater flow (7Q10) in cfs
CT     = bacteria standard after mixing (usually 200 colonies /100ml May through October or
2000 col/100ml November through April)
QT     = total stream flow after mixing in cfs

4.     Disinfection may be required for hydrograph controlled release (HCR) lagoons.

O.     Chlorine Toxicity

Residual chlorine allocations for all municipal and industrial effluents will be developed so as to
meet the State's water quality criteria. To properly select the final in-stream target concentration,
the type of receiving water (fresh or estuarine) and the IWC* (instream waste concentration)
must be known. Once this information is known, allocations will be determined using the
following dilution mix equation:

                                           (CT * QT ) − (CH * QH )
                                    CE =
                                                     QE
where:
CE     = allowable effluent chlorine concentration in ug/l
QE     = daily average effluent flow in cfs
CH     = headwater chlorine concentration (usually 0.0 ug/l)
QH     = headwater flow (7Q10) in cfs
CT     = chlorine standard in ug/l (after mixing)

                                                 102
                                               Acute     Chronic
                                 Fresh          19         11
                                 Estuarine      13         7.5

QT     = total stream flow in cfs (after mixing)

P.     Instream Waste Concentration

The instream waste concentration (IWC) is the resulting percentage of effluent after complete
mixing with the receiving water body at the headwater flow appropriate to the allocation
procedure, normally the 7Q10. Acute or chronic pollutant target criteria are selected based on the
resulting IWC.

                                                   QE
                                          IWC =       *100
                                                   QT

For IWC < 1% use acute criteria; For IWC > 1% use chronic criteria.

Q.     Ammonia Toxicity

Ammonia must not only be considered due to its effect on dissolved oxygen in a receiving water,
but also its toxicity potential. It is recognized that effluent ammonia concentrations may be more
restricted due to toxicity than due to oxidation. Consequently, the modeler of conventional
pollutants must consider ammonia toxicity.

Ammonia as nitrogen (NH3-N) allocations for effluents will be developed to meet the water
quality criteria given in Quality Criteria for Water, 1986, EPA 440/5-86-001. Generally,
ammonia limits will be placed in permits of municipal facilities utilizing lagoon type treatment.
To properly select the final in-stream target concentration, the IWC (instream waste
concentration) must be known and the warm water target values used. Stream temperature and
pH after mixing must also be known or assumed. For empirical modeling a pH of 7.0 and a
stream temperature of 25oC are assumed limitations. Once this information is known, allocations
will be determined using the following dilution mix equation:

                                          (CT * QT ) − (CH * QH )
                                   CE =
                                                    QE
where:
CE     = allowable effluent NH3 concentration in mg/l
QE     = daily average effluent flow in cfs
CH     = headwater ammonia concentration of 0.1 mg/l
QH     = headwater flow (7Q10) in cfs
CT     = ammonia criteria in mg/l (after mixing)
QT     = total stream flow in cfs (after mixing)

                                                103
Final ammonia allocations will be reported as ammonia nitrogen.
                                   NH3-N = NH3 x 0.822

II.    CONVENTIONAL WATER QUALITY MODELS

The Department's freshwater quality model is a steady-state modified Streeter-Phelps dissolved
oxygen sag model. The model includes the stream's carbonaceous and nitrogenous BOD
ultimate demand, the stream's reaeration rate, the net photosynthetic demand and production, and
the benthic oxygen demand. The model was developed in 1973 by the staff of the Civil
Engineering Department at Mississippi State University. The STREAM model was updated by
MSU in 2004 to work in a java and oracle computer environment. The model is used for both
empirical and calibration purposes.

For salt water modeling, nutrient modeling, and highly complex hydrology, the Department will
use a combination of the Environmental Fluids Dynamic Code EFDC model for the hydrology
and the WASP model. Both of these models are supported by EPA and are accessible in the
public domain.

The Department may utilize other models and/or documents which are approved by both the
Department and EPA, are scientifically defensible and/or have been duly promulgated through
the Federal Administrative Procedure Act.




                                              104
                    EXHIBIT B to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2
             DISINFECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SANITARY SEWAGE

I.     DISCHARGE TO WATERS CLASSIFIED PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.

Disinfection shall be required regardless of the quantity of receiving water for discharges to or
within close proximity, both in distance and travel time, to public water supply waters.

II. DISCHARGES TO WATERS CLASSIFIED RECREATION AND TO
WATERS OF OTHER CLASSIFICATIONS WITH KNOWN RECREATIONAL SITES.

Disinfection shall be required regardless of the quantity of receiving water.

III.   DISCHARGES TO WATERS CLASSIFIED SHELLFISH HARVESTING.

1.     Disinfection shall be required for discharges to or within one tidal cycle of approved or
conditionally approved shellfish harvesting areas.

2.     Disinfection shall be required for discharges within close proximity to closed shellfish
harvesting areas, if, after mixing at the most unfavorable hydrographic and pollutional
conditions, the geometric mean concentration of fecal coliform is expected to exceed 14 colonies
per 100 ml.

IV.    DISCHARGES TO WATERS CLASSIFIED FISH AND WILDLIFE.

1.      Disinfection shall be required for discharges to or within close proximity, both in distance
and/or travel time, to waters with known recreational sites regardless of the quantity of receiving
water.

2.     Disinfection shall be required for discharges to or within close proximity to public water
supply waters, if, after mixing at the most unfavorable hydrographic and pollutional conditions
(normally the 7Q10 low flow), the geometric mean concentration of fecal coliform is expected to
exceed 200 colonies per 100 ml.

3.      Disinfection shall be required for discharges to or within close proximity to fish and
wildlife waters, if, after mixing at the most unfavorable hydrographic and pollutional conditions
(normally the 7Q10 low flow), the geometric mean concentration of fecal coliform is expected to
exceed 200 colonies per 100 ml during May through October and 2000 colonies per 100 ml from
November through April.

V.     DISCHARGES TO WATERS CLASSIFIED EPHEMERAL.

Disinfection shall be required where the probability of a public health hazard or other
circumstances so warrant.

VI.    CONSISTENCY WITH WATER QUALITY STANDARDS

                                                105
Notwithstanding the above, disinfection requirements for sanitary sewage shall be protective of
water quality standards.




                                             106
                    EXHIBIT C to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2
                     VALUES OF RUNOFF COEFFICIENT C

TYPE OF DRAINAGE AREA RUNOFF COEFFICIENT, C

LAWNS:
SANDY SOIL, FLAT 2%                                0.05-0.10
SANDY SOIL, AVERAGE, 2-7%                          0.10-0.15
SANDY SOIL, STEEP, 7%                              0.15-0.20
HEAVY SOIL, FLAT, 2%                               0.13-0.17
HEAVY SOIL, AVERAGE, 2-7%                          0.18-0.22
HEAVY SOIL, STEEP, 7%                              0.25-0.35

BUSINESS:
DOWNTOWN AREAS                                     0.70-0.95
NEIGHBORHOOD AREAS                                 0.50-0.70

RESIDENTIAL:
SINGLE FAMILY AREAS                                0.30-0.50
MULTI UNITS, DETACHED                              0.40-0.60
MULTI UNITS, ATTACHED                              0.60-0.75
SUBURBAN                                           0.25-0.40
APARTMENT DWELLING AREAS                           0.50-0.70

INDUSTRIAL:
LIGHT AREAS                                        0.50-0.80
HEAVY AREAS                                        0.60-0.90

PARKS, CEMETERIES                                  0.10-0.25
PLAYGROUNDS                                        0.20-0.35
RAILROAD YARD AREAS                                0.20-0.40
UNIMPROVED AREAS                                   0.10-0.30

STREETS:
ASPHALTIC                                          0.70-0.95
CONCRETE                                           0.80-0.95
BRICK                                              0.70-0.85
DRIVES AND WALKS                                   0.75-0.85
ROOFS                                              0.75-0.95

SOURCE: CHOW, V.T. 1964 Handbook of Applied Hydrology, McGraw Hill, Inc., New York,
N.Y.




                                       107
Calculation of Average Flow Rate:


                             [( A * xC * XRO ) + ( A2 * C 2 * RO ) + ( A3 * C3 * RO )...]
                     AFR =
                                                        TO
Where:
AFR = Average Flow Rate in cu. ft./min
A      = Area in acres
C      = Runoff Coefficient
Rx     = Runoff for area
TO     = Total Runoff




                                                    108
EXHIBIT D to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - BIOASSAY REQUIREMENTS

I.      Chronic Bioassay Requirements

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that waters shall be free from substances
attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural, or other discharges in concentrations or
combinations that are toxic or harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of Mississippi,
Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, and Coastal Waters, Section II.4., Minimum Conditions
Applicable to All Waters (current edition). In accordance with such requirements, an NPDES
permit holder is authorized to discharge from outfall(s) only in accordance with the following
conditions:

1.      The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.

2.      The permittee shall perform 7-day chronic, static renewal, definitive (a control and five
effluent concentrations) WET tests in accordance with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the
Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
89/001) or Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-87/028) or the most recent edition.

(a)      Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Short-Term
Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater
Organisms (EPA/600/4-89/001) or most recent edition9. For estuarine testing, dilution water
shall consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20
parts per thousand according to Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of
Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms (EPA/600/4-87/028) or most
recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the control organisms in the
toxicity tests meet the minimum EPA criteria for chronic tests.

(b)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving waters are
freshwater, the permittee shall conduct a Ceriodaphnia dubia Survival and Reproduction Test,
and a Pimephales promelas Larval Survival and Growth Test on serial dilutions of effluent to
determine if the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the
water affects the survival, growth, and reproduction of the test organisms. Static renewal tests
will be conducted on three 24- hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite
samples will be used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these
composite samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite
sample will be used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse
between sampling and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be
considered valid only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for

9
 Contact MDEQ Office of Pollution Control Laboratory for information on most recent editions(s) of methods
manual

                                                  109
Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater
Organisms, (EPA/600/4-89/001), or the most recent edition, are met. All data shall be
statistically analyzed according to the referenced manual.

(c)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines that the receiving water is
estuarine, the permittee shall conduct a Menidia beryllina Larval Survival and Growth Test and a
Americamysis Survival, Growth, and Fecundity Test on serial dilutions of effluent to determine if
the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the water affects
the survival, growth, and fecundity of the test organisms. Static renewal tests will be conducted
on three 24-hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite samples will be
used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these composite
samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite sample will be
used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse between sampling
and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be considered valid
only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic
Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
87/028) or most recent edition are met. All test data shall be statistically analyzed according to
the referenced manual.

(d)     A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (chronic) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests with both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests results. In either
case, the reference toxicant test results must be submitted with the final report as well as on the
Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form.

3.      These chronic toxicity tests shall be initiated within 90 days of the date of issuance of the
permit to evaluate wastewater toxicity. Such chronic toxicity tests shall be conducted once per
quarter for a period of one year following the effective date of the permit. After the first year of
monitoring, provided the IC25 is greater than or equal to the IWC% the frequency of monitoring
will be reduced to once per six months for the life of the permit. Sampling shall be timed to
cover the seasonal extremes of the year (hot-dry and cold-wet).

4.     If any one chronic toxicity test indicates the IC25 is less than the IWC%, the provisions in
Section 6 below shall apply, and the permittee shall conduct another chronic toxicity test(s) with
the organism(s) that failed. This follow-up test must be completed within 30 days following
completion of the failed test. Final chronic toxicity test results shall be in report form as outlined
in Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. The permittee must also submit a
completed Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing
Report Form.

5.      In the event the permittee passes the additional WET test, the permittee shall resume
testing in accordance with the testing schedule set forth in the permit. In the event the permittee
fails the second WET test, the permittee shall submit a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation Plan
(TREP) within 45 days following completion of the follow-up test in order to reduce the toxicity

                                                 110
of the effluent to safe 10 levels11. The first phase of the TREP will include increased monitoring
to characterize the toxicity of the effluent.

6.    If the IC25 of any test is less than the IWC%, then the effluent will be considered
unacceptably chronically toxic, and this will constitute a violation of Part I of this permit.

7.     In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).

II.     ACUTE BIOASSAY REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters (current edition).
In accordance with such requirements, the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s)
only in accordance with the following conditions:

1.      The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.

2.      The permittee shall perform static renewal (tests that exceed 48 hours shall be renewed),
definitive (a control and five effluent concentrations) toxicity tests at 25°C in accordance with
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or the most recent edition. Acute toxicity tests will be
conducted on 24-hour composite samples of effluent, and tests must be initiated within 36-hours
of completion of the sampling period.

(a)    If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is
freshwater, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

        (1)     Pimephales promelas (< 24-hrs.of age) - 96 hour
        (2)     Ceriodaphnia dubia - 48 hour

(b)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is marine
or estuarine, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

        (1)     Menidia beryllina - 96 hour
        (2)     Americamysis - 48 hour

(c)Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as distilled or
deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test organisms. For
freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or mineral water
combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Methods for Measuring the

10
 Safe levels will be determined by Title 11, Part 6, Chapter 2.
11
 In large rivers, lakes, and estuaries the permittee must provide a schematic map showing isopleths of waste
concentrations.

                                                   111
Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water and Marine Organisms, Fourth
Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing, dilution water shall
consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20 parts per
thousand according to Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most
recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the survival of the control
organisms in the toxicity tests is 90% or greater.

(d)     A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (acute) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests for both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests. In either case the
reference toxicant test results must be submitted in the final report as well as on the Mississippi
Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form.

3.      The permittee shall conduct the first series of tests specified in Section 2 above within 90
days of the commencement of the discharge. The tests shall be conducted quarterly thereafter for
twelve (12) consecutive months, provided that the acute LC50 is greater than or equal to the
product of 3 times the IWC%. After the first year of testing, the frequency of monitoring will be
reduced to once per six months for the life of the permit. Sampling shall be timed to cover the
seasonal extremes of the year (hot- dry and cold-wet). The results of these acute toxicity tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board on the next quarterly
discharge monitoring report. Final acute toxicity test results shall be in report form as outlined in
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Fresh water and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. Along with this report, the permittee
must submit a completed Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent
Toxicity Testing Report Form within two weeks following test completion.

4.       If either toxicity test results in an LC50 value of less than the product of 3 times the
IWC%, the permittee shall initiate a second toxicity test within 2 weeks after the completion of
the first toxicity test using the organism(s) that failed. The LC50 determinations from these tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board within two weeks after
completion of the test.

(a)In the event that the results of any toxicity test reveals that the LC50 of the permittee's effluent
is less than the product of 3 times the IWC%, then this finding will constitute a violation of Part I
of this permit. In the event the permittee passes the second toxicity test, the permittee shall
resume testing in accordance with the testing schedule set forth in the permit. In the event the
permittee fails the second WET test, the permittee shall submit a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation
Plan (TREP) within 45 days following completion of the follow-up tests to reduce the toxicity of
the effluent to safe levels12. The first phase of the TREP shall include monitoring to characterize
the toxicity of the effluent.

(b)    In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).
12
     Safe levels will be determined by WPC-2.

                                                 112
III.   ACUTE WHOLE EFFLUENT TOXICITY MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters (current edition).
In accordance with such requirements, the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s)
only in accordance with the following conditions:

1.      The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.

2.      The permittee shall perform static, non-renewal, definitive (a control and five effluent
concentrations) toxicity tests at 25°C in accordance with Methods for Measuring the Acute
Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027)
or the most recent edition. Acute toxicity tests will be conducted on 24-hour composite samples
of effluent, and tests must be initiated within 36-hours of completion of the sampling period.

(a)    If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is
freshwater, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

       (1)     Pimephales promelas (< 24-hrs.of age) - 96 hour
       (2)     Ceriodaphnia dubia - 48 hour

(b)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is marine
or estuarine, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

       (1)     Menidia beryllina - 96 hour
       (2)     Americamysis - 48 hour

(c)      Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Methods for
Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water and Marine
Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing,
dilution water shall consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a
salinity of 20 parts per thousand according to Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of
Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-
600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the
survival of the control organisms in the toxicity tests is 90% or greater.

(d)     A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (acute) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests for both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests. In either case the

                                                113
reference toxicant test results must be submitted in the final report as well as on the Mississippi
Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form.

3.      The permittee shall conduct the first series of tests specified in part 1 above within
90 days of the issuance of the permit. The tests shall be conducted quarterly thereafter for twelve
(12) consecutive months. After the first year of testing, the frequency of monitoring will be
reduced to once per six months for the life of the permit. Sampling shall be timed to cover the
seasonal extremes of the year (hot- dry and cold-wet). The results of these acute toxicity tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board on the next quarterly
discharge monitoring report. Final acute toxicity test results shall be in report form as outlined in
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. Along with this report, the permittee
must submit a completed Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent
Toxicity Testing Report Form within two weeks following test completion.

4.     In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).

IV.    CHRONIC WHOLE EFFLUENT TOXICITY MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate and Coastal Waters, Section II.4, Minimum
Conditions Applicable to All Waters (current edition). In accordance with such requirements,
the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s) only in accordance with the following
conditions:

1.      The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.

2.      The permittee shall perform 7-day chronic, static renewal, definitive (a control and five
effluent concentrations) WET tests in accordance with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the
Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
89/001) or Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-87/028) or the most recent edition.

(a)      Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For fresh water tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Short-Term
Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water
Organisms (EPA/600/4-89/001) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing, dilution water shall
consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20 parts
per thousand according to Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents
and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms (EPA/600/4-87/028) or most recent



                                                114
edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the control organisms in the toxicity
tests meet the minimum EPA criteria for chronic tests.

(b)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving waters are fresh
water, the permittee shall conduct a Ceriodaphnia dubia Survival and Reproduction Test, and a
Pimephales promelas Larval Survival and Growth Test on serial dilutions of effluent to
determine if the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the
water affects the survival, growth, and reproduction of the test organisms. Static renewal tests
will be conducted on three 24- hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite
samples will be used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these
composite samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite
sample will be used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse
between sampling and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be
considered valid only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for
estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms,
(EPA/600/4-89/001), or the most recent edition, are met. All data shall be statistically analyzed
according to the referenced manual.

(c)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines that the receiving water is
estuarine, the permittee shall conduct a Menidia beryllina Larval Survival and Growth Test and a
Americamysis Survival, Growth, and Fecundity Test on serial dilutions of effluent to determine if
the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the water affects
the survival, growth, and fecundity of the test organisms. Static renewal tests will be conducted
on three 24-hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite samples will be
used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these composite
samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite sample will be
used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse between sampling
and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be considered valid
only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic
Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
87/028) or most recent edition are met. All test data shall be statistically analyzed according to
the referenced manual.

(d)     A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (chronic) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests with both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests results. In either
case, the reference toxicant test results must be submitted with the final report as well as on the
Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form
within two weeks of test completion. Final chronic toxicity test results shall be in report form as
outlined in Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine
Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition.

4.      These chronic toxicity tests shall be initiated within 90 days of the date of issuance of the
permit to evaluate wastewater toxicity. Such chronic toxicity tests shall be conducted once per
quarter for a period of one year following the effective date of the permit. After the first year of

                                                115
testing, the frequency of monitoring may be reduced to once per six months for the life of the
permit. Sampling shall be timed to cover the seasonal extremes of the year (hot-dry and cold-
wet).

5.     In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).




                                              116
                       NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form

                                 Mississippi Office of Pollution Control

* All blanks on this form are to be filled in. Blanks that are not used should be filled in with
"N/A" or a line drawn through the blank. Please print.

   Please attach the following items to this report form and indicate with an "X" in the box.
1. ALL CHAIN OF CUSTODY FORMS
2. All Reference Toxicant Data for each Organism used in Test and Current Control Charts for each
Organism.
3. All Raw Data (Bench Sheets) Pertaining to the Tests (i.e., all physical, chemical and biological
measurements)
4. All Result Calculations
5. Discharge Monitoring Reports (DMRs) when Applicable


Facility/Industry/Client Name:_____________________________________________________

NPDES Number:________________________________________________________________

County:_______________________________________________________________________

Name and Phone Number of Contract Laboratory:_____________________________________

Date(s) and Time(s) Test(s) Initiated:_____________________End:_______________________

Name(s) of Person(s) Conducting Test(s) (Printed):____________________________________

QA/QC Officer/Reviewer Signature:________________________________________________

Laboratory Report #:_____________________________________________________________

Sampler's Name (Print):__________________________________________________________

                                                    Samples
DATE AND        LAB        GRAB     24-H     ARRIVAL      TYPE OF       SAMPLE            *SAMPLE     SAMPLE
TIME            SAMPLE              COMP.    TEMP. °C     REFRIG.       DELIVR. BY:       AERATED     FILTERED
COLLECTED       #                                         USED IN
                                                          TRANS.




* If samples are aerated please describe in report.




                                                        117
                                           **Reference Toxicant Data

Name of Toxicant:______________________________________________________________

Dates of Test(s): ________________________________________________________________

Species and Age:________________________________________________________________

In-house or Commercially Obtained Test Organisms:___________________________________

LC50 or IC25:___________________________________________________________________
**Please attach all ref. tox. raw data for each test organism used.

                                       SUMMARY OF TEST CONDITIONS
                                              CERIODAPHNIA DUBIA               PIMEPHALES PROMELAS
Test Type: Chronic or Acute
Renewal or Non-renewal
Test Concentrations (% Effluent)
Age of Test Org.
Amount and Type of food
How often fed
Test Chamber Volume
Type of Chamber
# of Org./Chamber
# of reps.
Description of Control Water
Single, Multiple or Continuous Temp.
Readings



                                       Test Results (Acute and/or Chronic)
  TEST SPECIES            48-HOUR LC50        96-HOUR LC50     IC25 SURVIVAL     IC25 REPR. OR GROWTH




                                                      118
      EXHIBIT E to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2
ANTIDEGRADATION IMPLEMENTATION METHODOLOGY

                    State of Mississippi
          Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate,
              Interstate, and Coastal Waters
         Antidegradation Implementation Methods
                     January 28, 2010

                       Prepared by

      Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality

                Office of Pollution Control
                 Surface Water Division




                          MDEQ




                           119
                 ANTIDEGRADATION IMPLEMENTATION METHODS
                            Forms and Instructions
                              (January 28, 2010)

I.     Introduction

The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) State of Mississippi Water
Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters (WPC-2) provides:

“Antidegradation: The policy inherent in the standards shall be to protect water quality existing
at the time these water quality standards were adopted and to upgrade or enhance water quality
within the State of Mississippi. Waters whose existing quality is better than the established
standards will be maintained at high quality unless the Commission finds, after full satisfaction
of the intergovernmental coordination and public participation provisions of the State's
continuing planning process, that allowing lower water quality is necessary to accommodate
important economic or social development in the area in which the waters are located. In no
event, however, may degradation of water quality interfere with or become injurious to existing
instream water uses. Further, in no case will water quality be degraded below (or above) the
base levels set forth in these standards for the protection of the beneficial uses described herein.
In addition, the State will assure that there shall be achieved the highest statutory and regulatory
requirements for all new and existing point sources and all cost-effective and reasonable best
management practices for nonpoint source control. Where the Commission determines that high
quality waters constitute an Outstanding National Resource, such as waters of National and State
Parks and Wildlife Refuges and waters of exceptional recreational or ecological significance,
that water quality shall be maintained and protected. For the purposes of this rule, existing uses
are defined as those uses actually attained in the water body on or after November 28, 1975,
whether or not they are included in the Water Quality Criteria."

Further, the federal antidegradation policy (40 CFR Section 131.12(a)(2)) provides:

"Where the quality of the waters exceed levels necessary to support propagation of fish,
shellfish, and wildlife, and recreation in and on the water, that quality shall be maintained and
protected, unless the State finds, after full satisfaction of the intergovernmental coordination and
public participation provisions of the State's continuing planning process, that allowing lower
water quality is necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area
in which the waters are located."

Each state or tribe is required to identify methods for implementation of its antidegradation
policy (40 CFR Section 131.12(a)):

"The State shall develop and adopt a statewide antidegradation policy and identify the methods
for implementing such policy pursuant to this subpart."

On June 25, 2008, the State of Mississippi's antidegradation policy was determined by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 4, to be consistent with the requirements of
federal regulations.



                                                120
II.    Water Body Tiers

Antidegradation is generally considered in a tiered approach. Tier 1 waters are those waters in
which the existing water quality does not support designated uses. Tier 2 waters are those waters
in which the water quality meets or exceeds the mandatory minimum levels to support the Clean
Water Act (CWA) goal of propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife, and recreation in and on
such waters. Tier 3 waters are those high quality waters that constitute Outstanding National
Resource Waters (ONRWs). MDEQ will decide which tier applies for State waters based on a
review of applicable information as described below. All existing uses must be maintained and
protected in all waters of the State regardless of whether they are considered a Tier 1, 2, or 3
water.

All waters in Mississippi are considered to be Tier 2 waters unless one of the following
conditions is met:

(1)      the water is designated as an Outstanding National Resource Water (ONRW), in which
case, it is a Tier 3 water;
(2)      the water is identified on Mississippi’s current §303(d) list, in which case it is defined as
a Tier 1 water with respect to the pollutant(s) causing impairment; or
(3)      the water has been subject to an established final Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL),
in which case it is defined as a Tier 1 water with respect to the pollutant(s) addressed by the
TMDL.

Tier 1 Waters

Tier 1 waters are those water body segments that are known to be impaired by a pollutant. Such
waters have an established as final TMDL or are listed in the State’s most recently adopted
§303(d) list. For Tier 1 waters, the antidegradation policy is implemented through the State’s
NPDES Permit Issuance Process. New or expanding discharges are not allowed in Section
303(d) listed waters if there is an increase in pollutants proposed for which the water is listed,
unless there is a TMDL developed that can be attained due to available assimilative capacity
within the wasteload allocation as part of the TMDL. Tier 1 water bodies are pollutant specific,
and this designation does not relieve a permit applicant from the requirements of an
antidegradation report for this or other “non-listed” pollutants as required proposed to be
discharged.




                                                 121
Tier 2 Waters

Tier 2 waters are those water bodies that:

(1)    have been determined to have assimilative capacity based on assessment of water quality
data and/or water quality modeling tools; or

(2)    are assumed to have assimilative capacity because there are insufficient data or
information to conclude that there is no assimilative capacity.

An antidegradation report is required for all proposed new or expanding discharges into Tier 2
waters. The level of detail involved in an antidegradation review will generally be dependent
upon the State’s judgment of the potential impact on water quality from a proposed activity
considering factors such as the type of activity (e.g., covered by a general or individual permit)
and magnitude of the discharge (e.g., major or minor).

Tier 3 Waters

When the Commission determines that high quality waters constitute an Outstanding National
Resource, such as waters of National and State Parks and Wildlife Refuges and waters of
exceptional recreational or ecological significance, the water quality of such waters shall be
maintained and protected by adopting Tier 3 designation. Tier 3 waters are considered
Outstanding National Resource Waters (ONRW). In order to achieve this designation, the
stream must be nominated as a Tier 3 ONRW and adopted by the Mississippi Commission on
Environmental Quality (MCEQ). Any person may submit a nomination to the Commission
which will include the rationale and documentation citing the historical, recreational or
ecological significance of the water body. The submission must include documentation as
shown in Exhibit G. Upon receipt of the nomination, the Commission staff will review the water
body, assess any available data or information to determine the impairment status, identify the
current NPDES permits in the watershed, and make a recommendation to the Commission for
consideration. If adopted as a Tier 3 water, the water body will not be allowed to experience any
further permanent degradation.

III.   Applicability of Antidegradation Policy Review Methods

The methods outlined herein focus on how the State will implement the antidegradation policy
for discharges to surface waters. The methods include the following components:

(1)    A determination of the impact of the discharge upon state waters;
(2)    alternatives analysis;
(3)    socio-economic issues;
(4)    a preliminary State antidegradation decision;
(5)    public review/input; and
(6)    a final State decision.




                                               122
A report regarding compliance with the antidegradation policy shall be conducted for all new or
expanding wastewater discharges into Mississippi surface waters that require an NPDES permit.
NPDES Permit reissuances will not be subject to the report procedures provided there are no
proposed changes to the facility’s effluent which would result in increases in pollutant loadings.
General permit coverage will undergo an antidegradation review. MDEQ will conduct the
antidegradation review for each activity for which a Notice of Intent (NOI) to discharge is
received for coverage under a general permit. The procedures for general permits follow:

(1)      An application is received for coverage (NOI).
(2)      The NOI is posted on MDEQ’s website at
http://opc.deq.state.ms.us/report_gnp_notice.aspx. Typically, the notice is posted for at least a
10-day period prior to action on the NOI.
(3)      The permit manager uses the NOI application and other available data and information to
answer a list of questions that relate to a proposed project including alternatives analysis and
socio-economic issues.
(4)      The information in the completed project awareness checklist provides the basis for
MDEQ to complete its antidegradation review.
(5)      If, based on the results of the antidegradation review, MDEQ determines that the
applicant can receive coverage under a general permit, notice of coverage by a general permit is
posted on MDEQ’s website at: http://opc.deq.state.ms.us/report_gnp_issued.aspx.
(6)      If, based on the results of the antidegradation review, MDEQ determines that the
applicant cannot receive coverage; the applicant must apply for an individual NPDES permit and
fulfill the requirements of Section IV of this methodology.

IV Required Antidegradation Components

The antidegradation report requirements must be addressed as described in this section and
contained in the forms attached hereto. The Antidegradation Instruction Form along with the
Calculation of Total Annualized Project Costs worksheets should be incorporated into the
appropriate NPDES application forms.

These forms shall be completed by all individual NPDES permit applicants for new discharges or
existing discharges with proposed effluents that contain new or additional pollutants or an
increase in flow that results in an increase in pollutant loading. Antidegradation requires
documentation that discharge and treatment alternatives and socio-economic impacts have been
evaluated and considered. The applicant may utilize EPA’s “The Interim Economic Guidance
for Water Quality Standards Workbook” dated March, 1995, for guidance in completing the
report.

Project Information

The applicant should supply the required information from the Antidegradation Instruction Form
providing the specific information regarding the name and other pertinent details of the proposed
discharge. The location information and/or a map must be provided. The proposed effluent
discharge flow details should also be given in this section. MDEQ reserves the right to require




                                               123
completion of the remaining sections of the Antidegradation Instruction Form for any proposed
NPDES permit application.

Alternatives Analysis

An analysis of alternatives is required to ensure that the applicant has considered alternatives that
would reduce impacts to state surface waters. The analysis should include a description of each
alternative in terms of both technical and economic feasibility. Alternatives to be considered
should include (but are not limited to):

(1)    a centralized no discharge system;
(2)    connection to an existing wastewater treatment facility;
(3)    an alternative discharge point; and
(4)    product or raw material substitution.

Alternatives may also consider:
(5)     other treatment options which would reduce the predicted impact to the stream;
(6)     improved operation and maintenance of existing treatment operations;
(7)     seasonal or controlled discharge options to avoid critical conditions; and
(8)     pollution prevention, increased efficiency, water conservation, recycle or reuse
alternatives.

Socio-Economic Impacts Analysis

Socio-economic or environmental / public health issues may be considered as justifications for
lowering water quality. This analysis is not necessary if a non-degrading alternative is chosen
following the alternatives analysis.

Factors to be considered in making a determination include:

(1)    employment (increasing production and jobs, maintaining, or avoiding reduction in
employment);
(2)   improved community tax base; and
(3)   correction of an environmental or public health problem; and
(4)   providing a social benefit to the community.

The Interim Economic Guidance for Water Quality Standards Workbook, published by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, March 1995, may be used as a guide in preparing this
analysis.

Public Review / Input

Prior to issuance of an individual NPDES permit, the proposed permit is sent to public notice in
accordance with the Environmental Permits Division’s administrative procedures. The NPDES
permit public notice will state that an antidegradation report has been prepared for the project
and is available for public inspection. All applications for coverage under a general permit will



                                                124
consider available alternatives and socio-economic issues. Public notice of proposed general
permit coverage is accomplished by website notification.

Final Action

At the completion of the public review / input process, any comments received will be reviewed
and considered to determine if changes should be made to the proposed discharge permit.
Significant changes may require an update to the antidegradation report for the project and/or an
additional public notice.




                                              125
ANTIDEGRADATION INSTRUCTION FORM
FOR NEW/EXPANDING DISCHARGES TO TIER 2 WATERS
Individual Permits

Project Information

The information in this section is not required again if it has already been provided with
the NPDES permit application or request for coverage under a general permit.

      •   Name of project
      •   Location of project (map showing proposed discharge point and location of treatment
          facility)
      •   Proposed treatment type
      •   Proposed influent constituents
      •   Proposed design flow
      •   Name of discharge stream
      •   Latitude and Longitude of discharge point if available
      •   Contact information for permit applicant
      •   Is the applicant seeking coverage under a general permit for this discharge?

Alternatives Analysis

The demonstration should include, but not be limited to, consideration of the alternatives listed
below:

(1)       a centralized no discharge system;
(2)       connection to an existing wastewater treatment facility;
(3)       an alternative discharge point; and
(4)       product or raw material substitution.

Alternatives may also consider:
(5)     other treatment options which would reduce the predicted impact to the stream;
(6)     improved operation and maintenance of existing treatment operations;
(7)     seasonal or controlled discharge options to avoid critical conditions; and
(8)     pollution prevention, increased efficiency, water conservation, recycle or reuse
alternatives.


The applicant should consider if the alternative is technically feasible. If it is technically
feasible, then the applicant must consider if it is economically feasible. If the alternative is
economically feasible, then degradation of the stream may not occur. If the alternative is not
feasible, then the next alternative should be considered. Documentation is required for all
technical and economic feasibility considerations.



                                                 126
The applicant must complete the Calculation of Total Annualized Project Costs worksheet for
each technically feasible alternative considered. Then the Total Annualized Project Cost for
each alternative must be compared to the chosen alternative. Those alternatives that have a Total
Annualized Project Cost less than 110% of the chosen alternative are considered economically
feasible.

Social and Economic Impact Analysis

All applicants for a new or expanded discharge must demonstrate that the proposed discharge is
necessary for important economic or social development in the area. This section is not
applicable if a non-degrading alternative such as a no discharge system or connection to an
existing treatment facility has been selected.

Socio-economic or environmental / public health issues which would justify the proposed
discharge may include:

(1)    employment (increasing production and jobs, maintaining, or avoiding reduction in
       employment);
(2)    improved community tax base; and
(3)    correction of an environmental or public health problem; and
(4)    provide a social benefit to the community.

The applicant should estimate the number of new jobs (both direct and indirect jobs) created as a
result of the project. Documentation should also predict the effect of the new jobs on the local
and state tax base – i.e. tax revenues expected to be gained by local and state governments and/or
any other economic benefits.

The permit applicant should document any existing environmental or public health problem, as
well as the expected effect of the proposed project on the existing problem.

For example, a description of the environmental benefits from a proposed wastewater treatment
plant which will take failing septic tanks offline.

Others – Please list and describe.

MDEQ may require additional documentation and calculations or require consideration of
other alternatives as necessary to justify the proposed degradation.




                                               127
Calculation of Total Annualized Project Costs

This form must be completed for the chosen alternative. All figures presented must be supported
with documentation.

Capital Costs                                                            Chosen Alternative

Alternative     _________________________________________________________________

Capital Cost of Project (show a breakout of costs on a separate sheet)   $________________

Other One-Time Costs of Project
(Please List, if any):
_________________________________________________                        $________________

_________________________________________________                        $________________

_________________________________________________                        $________________

Total Capital Costs (Sum columns)                                        $________________

Interest Rate Used (expressed as decimal)      (i)_____________

Time Period of Financing (in years)            (n)_____________

Annualization Factor                        (af)____________
(or see Table of             i (1 + i) n
Annualization Factors)      (1 + i )n − 1

Annualized Capital Cost [(Total Capital Cost) x (af)]                    (acc)$__________

Operating and Maintenance Costs

List Annual Costs of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) (including but not limited to:
monitoring, inspection, permitting fees, waste disposal charges, repair, administration and
replacement.)

________________________________________________                         $________________

_________________________________________________                        $________________


Total Annual O & M Costs (Sum column)                                    $________________

Total Annual Cost of Project                                             $________________




                                                 128
Calculation of Total Annualized Project Costs For No Discharge Alternative

This form must be completed for the no discharge alternative considered. All figures presented
must be supported with documentation.

Capital Costs                                                       No Discharge Alternative

Alternative     __________________________________________________________________

Capital Cost of Project (show a breakout of costs on a separate sheet)     $_________________

Other One-Time Costs of Project
(Please List, if any):
_________________________________________________                          $_________________

_________________________________________________                          $_________________

_________________________________________________                          $_________________

Total Capital Costs (Sum columns)                                          $_________________

Interest Rate Used (expressed as decimal)       (i)_____________

Time Period of Financing (in years)             (n)_____________

Annualization Factor                        (af)____________
(or see Table of             i (1 + i) n
Annualization Factors)      (1 + i )n − 1


Annualized Capital Cost [(Total Capital Cost) x (af)]                      (acc)$__________

Operating and Maintenance Costs

List Annual Costs of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) (including but not limited to:
monitoring, inspection, permitting fees, waste disposal charges, repair, administration and
replacement.)

________________________________________________                           $________________

_________________________________________________                          $________________

Total Annual O & M Costs (Sum column)                                      $________________

Total Annual Cost of Project                                               $________________




                                                 129
                                            Table of Annualization Factors

Year                                                Interest Rate
       0.0050   0.0100   0.0150   0.0200   0.0250   0.0300     0.0350        0.0400   0.0450   0.0500   0.0550   0.0600
1      1.0050   1.0100   1.0150   1.0200   1.0250   1.0300     1.0350        1.0400   1.0450   1.0500   1.0550   1.0600
2      0.5038   0.5075   0.5113   0.5150   0.5188   0.5226     0.5264        0.5302   0.5340   0.5378   0.5416   0.5454
3      0.3367   0.3400   0.3434   0.3468   0.3501   0.3535     0.3569        0.3603   0.3638   0.3672   0.3707   0.3741
4      0.2531   0.2563   0.2594   0.2626   0.2658   0.2690     0.2723        0.2755   0.2787   0.2820   0.2853   0.2886
5      0.2030   0.2060   0.2091   0.2122   0.2152   0.2184     0.2215        0.2246   0.2278   0.2310   0.2342   0.2374
6      0.1696   0.1725   0.1755   0.1785   0.1815   0.1846     0.1877        0.1908   0.1939   0.1970   0.2002   0.2034
7      0.1457   0.1486   0.1516   0.1545   0.1575   0.1605     0.1635        0.1666   0.1697   0.1728   0.1760   0.1791
8      0.1278   0.1307   0.1336   0.1365   0.1395   0.1425     0.1455        0.1485   0.1516   0.1547   0.1579   0.1610
9      0.1139   0.1167   0.1196   0.1225   0.1255   0.1284     0.1314        0.1345   0.1376   0.1407   0.1438   0.1470
10     0.1028   0.1056   0.1084   0.1113   0.1143   0.1172     0.1202        0.1233   0.1264   0.1295   0.1327   0.1359
11     0.0937   0.0965   0.0993   0.1022   0.1051   0.1081     0.1111        0.1141   0.1172   0.1204   0.1236   0.1268
12     0.0861   0.0888   0.0917   0.0946   0.0975   0.1005     0.1035        0.1066   0.1097   0.1128   0.1160   0.1193
13     0.0796   0.0824   0.0852   0.0881   0.0910   0.0940     0.0971        0.1001   0.1033   0.1065   0.1097   0.1130
14     0.0741   0.0769   0.0797   0.0826   0.0855   0.0885     0.0916        0.0947   0.0978   0.1010   0.1043   0.1076
15     0.0694   0.0721   0.0749   0.0778   0.0808   0.0838     0.0868        0.0899   0.0931   0.0963   0.0996   0.1030
16     0.0652   0.0679   0.0708   0.0737   0.0766   0.0796     0.0827        0.0858   0.0890   0.0923   0.0956   0.0990
17     0.0615   0.0643   0.0671   0.0700   0.0729   0.0760     0.0790        0.0822   0.0854   0.0887   0.0920   0.0954
18     0.0582   0.0610   0.0638   0.0667   0.0697   0.0727     0.0758        0.0790   0.0822   0.0855   0.0889   0.0924
19     0.0553   0.0581   0.0609   0.0638   0.0668   0.0698     0.0729        0.0761   0.0794   0.0827   0.0862   0.0896
20     0.0527   0.0554   0.0582   0.0612   0.0641   0.0672     0.0704        0.0736   0.0769   0.0802   0.0837   0.0872

Year                                                Interest Rate
       0.0650   0.0700   0.0750   0.0800   0.0850   0.0900     0.0950        0.1000   0.1050   0.1100   0.1150   0.1200
1      1.0650   1.0700   1.0750   1.0800   1.0850   1.0900     1.0950        1.1000   1.1050   1.1100   1.1150   1.1200
2      0.5493   0.5531   0.5569   0.5608   0.5646   0.5685     0.5723        0.5762   0.5801   0.5839   0.5878   0.5917
3      0.3776   0.3811   0.3845   0.3880   0.3915   0.3951     0.3986        0.4021   0.4057   0.4092   0.4128   0.4163
4      0.2919   0.2952   0.2986   0.3019   0.3053   0.3087     0.3121        0.3155   0.3189   0.3223   0.3258   0.3292
5      0.2406   0.2439   0.2472   0.2505   0.2538   0.2571     0.2604        0.2638   0.2672   0.2706   0.2740   0.2774
6      0.2066   0.2098   0.2130   0.2163   0.2196   0.2229     0.2263        0.2296   0.2330   0.2364   0.2398   0.2432
7      0.1823   0.1856   0.1888   0.1921   0.1954   0.1987     0.2020        0.2054   0.2088   0.2122   0.2157   0.2191
8      0.1642   0.1675   0.1707   0.1740   0.1773   0.1807     0.1840        0.1874   0.1909   0.1943   0.1978   0.2013
9      0.1502   0.1535   0.1568   0.1601   0.1634   0.1668     0.1702        0.1736   0.1771   0.1806   0.1841   0.1877
10     0.1391   0.1424   0.1457   0.1490   0.1524   0.1558     0.1593        0.1627   0.1663   0.1698   0.1734   0.1770
11     0.1301   0.1334   0.1367   0.1401   0.1435   0.1469     0.1504        0.1540   0.1575   0.1611   0.1648   0.1684
12     0.1226   0.1259   0.1293   0.1327   0.1362   0.1397     0.1432        0.1468   0.1504   0.1540   0.1577   0.1614
13     0.1163   0.1197   0.1231   0.1265   0.1300   0.1336     0.1372        0.1408   0.1444   0.1482   0.1519   0.1557
14     0.1109   0.1143   0.1178   0.1213   0.1248   0.1284     0.1321        0.1357   0.1395   0.1432   0.1470   0.1509
15     0.1064   0.1098   0.1133   0.1168   0.1204   0.1241     0.1277        0.1315   0.1352   0.1391   0.1429   0.1468
16     0.1024   0.1059   0.1094   0.1130   0.1166   0.1203     0.1240        0.1278   0.1316   0.1355   0.1394   0.1434
17     0.0989   0.1024   0.1060   0.1096   0.1133   0.1170     0.1208        0.1247   0.1285   0.1325   0.1364   0.1405
18     0.0959   0.0994   0.1030   0.1067   0.1104   0.1142     0.1180        0.1219   0.1259   0.1298   0.1339   0.1379
19     0.0932   0.0968   0.1004   0.1041   0.1079   0.1117     0.1156        0.1195   0.1235   0.1276   0.1316   0.1358
20     0.0908   0.0944   0.0981   0.1019   0.1057   0.1095     0.1135        0.1175   0.1215   0.1256   0.1297   0.1339

                                                        130
EXHIBIT F to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - BIBLIOGRAPHY

Ambrose, Robert B., 1990. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load
Allocations, Book III: Estuaries, Part II: Application of Estuarine Waste Load Allocation
Models. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 823/R-92-003).

Ambrose, Robert B., and Martin, James L., 1990. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing
Waste Load Allocations, Book III: Estuaries, Part 1: Estuaries and Waste Load Allocation
Models. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 823/R-92-002).

Bowie, George L., 1985. Rates, Constants, and Kinetics Formulations in Surface Water Quality
Modeling, 2d Ed. USEPA, Athens, GA 30613. (EPA 600/3-85-040).

Brown, Linfield C., and Barnwell, Thomas O., 1987. The Enhanced Stream Water Quality
Models QUAL2E and QUAL2E-UNCAS: Documentation and User Manual. Environmental
Research Lab, Office of Research & Development, USEPA, Athens, GA 30613. (EPA/600/3-
87-007).

Buchanan, Thomas J., and Somers, William P., 1968. Techniques of Water-Resources
Investigations of the United States Geological Survey, Volume III, Stage Measurement at
Gaging Stations. U.S. Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

Buchanan, Thomas J., and Somers, William P., 1969. Techniques of Water -Resources
Investigations of the United States Geological Survey, Volume III, Discharge Measurements at
Gaging Stations. U.S. Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

Canter, Larry W., 1985. River Water Quality Monitoring. Lewis Publishers, Inc., 121 S. Main
St, Chelsea, MI 48118.

Carter, R. W., and Jacob Davidian, 1968. Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the
United States Geological Survey, Volume III, General Procedure for Gaging Streams. U.S.
Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

Chow, V.T., 1964. Handbook of Applied Hydrology, McGraw Hill, Inc., New York, N.Y.

Freedman, Paul L., 1992. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations,
Book III: Estuaries, Part IV: Critical Review of Coastal Embayment and Estuarine Waste Load
Allocation Modeling. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA-823-R-92-005).

Greenberg, Arnold E., 2005. Standard Methods: For the Examination of Water And Wastewater,
21st Ed. American Public Health Assoc., 1015 15th St. NW, Washington, DC 20005.

Hatcher, Kathryn J., 1986. Sediment Oxygen Demand.          Institute of Natural Resources,
University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30613.

                                            131
Hilsenhoff, W. L., 1988. Rapid field assessment of organic pollution with a family-level biotic
index. Journal of the North American Benthological Society, 7(1): 65-68.

Hubbard, E. F., and Kilpatrick, F.A., 1982. Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the
United States Geological Survey, Volume III, Measurement of Time of Travel and Dispersion in
Streams by Dye Tracing. U.S. Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

Jirka, Gerhard H., 1992. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations,
Book III: Estuaries, Part III: Use of Mixing Zone Models in Estuarine Waste Load Allocations.
USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 823-R-92-004).

Mancini, John L., 1983. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations,
Book IV: Lakes, Reservoirs, and Impoundments, Chapter 2: Eutrophication. USEPA,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440-4-84-019).

Mills, William B., 1986. Handbook: Stream Sampling for Waste Load Allocation Applications.
USEPA, Office of Research & Development, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 625/6-86/013).

Mills, W. B., 1985. Water Quality Assessment: A Screening Procedure for Toxic and
Conventional Pollutants in Surface and Ground Water-Part II (Revised 1985), Volume II.
Environmental Research Lab, USEPA, Office of Research & Development, Athens, GA 30613.
(EPA 600/6-85-002b).

MDEQ, 1991. Field Monitoring Standard Operating Procedures. MDEQ, OPC, Box 2261,
Jackson, MS 39225.

MDEQ, 2007. State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal
Waters. (WPC-2) MDEQ, Jackson, MS. 39225.

MS BPC, 1988. Laboratory Analysis of Fecal Coliform: Membrane Filter Technique. MDEQ,
OPC, Box 2261, Jackson, MS 39225.

NCPI, 1990. The Reaeration Expert System - Version 3.0. NCASI, Tufts University, Anderson
Hall, Medford, MA 02155.

Odum, Eugene P., 1971. Fundamentals of Ecology: 3rd Ed. W.B. Saunders Co., W. Washington
Square, Philadelphia, PA 19105.

Odum, Howard T., and Hoskin, Charles M., 1958. Comparative Studies on the Metabolism of
Marine Waters. University of Texas, Port Aransas, TX.

Plafkin, James L., 1989. Rapid Bioassessment Protocols for Use in Streams and Rivers: Benthic
Macroinvertebrates and Fish. USEPA, Assessment & Watershed Protection Div., 401 M St SW,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 444/4-89-001).

                                             132
Ravan, Jack E., 1984. Monitoring Strategy: Office of Water. USEPA, Office of Water, 401 M
St, Washington, DC 20560. (EPA 000/R-84-002).

Schnoor, Gerald L., 1987. Processes, Coefficients, and Models for Simulating Toxic Organics
and Heavy Metals in Surface Waters. Environmental Research Lab, Office of Research &
Development, USEPA, Athens, GA 30613. (EPA 600/3-87-015).

Telis, Pamela A., 1991. Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams.
U.S. Geological Survey, Suite 710 Federal Bldg, 100 W. Capital, Jackson, MS 38269. (USGS
Report 90-4087).

Telis, Pamela A., 1992. Techniques for Estimating 7-Day, 10-Year Low-Flow Characteristics
for Ungaged Sites on Streams in Mississippi. U.S. Geological Survey, Suite 710 Federal Bldg,
100 W. Capitol, Jackson, MS 39269. (USGS Report 91-4130).

Terrell, Charles R., and Perfetti, Dr. Patricia B., 1989. Water Quality Indicators Guide: Surface
Waters. USDA, Soil Conservation Service, Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013.

Tharpe, E. J., 1975. Low-Flow Characteristics of Mississippi Streams. U.S. Geological Survey,
Suite 710 Federal Bldg, 100 W. Capital, Jackson, MS 38269.

Thomann, Robert V., and Mueller, John A., 1987. Principles of Surface Water Quality Modeling
and Control. Harper & Rowe, New York.

Turner Designs, 1982. Fluorometric Facts, Flow Measurements. Turner Designs, 2247 Old
Middlefield Way, Mountain View, CA 94043-2489.

USEPA, 1978. Microbiological Methods for Monitoring the Environment, Water and Waste.
USEPA. (EPA 600/8-78-017).

USEPA, 1980. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations Simplified
Analytical Method for Determining NPDES Effluent Limitations for POTWs Discharging into
Low-Flow Streams. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-86-015).

USEPA, 1983. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book II:
Streams and Rivers, Chapter 1: Biochemical Oxygen Demand / Dissolved Oxygen. USEPA,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-84-020).

USEPA, 1983. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book II:
Streams and Rivers, Chapter 2: Nutrient / Eutrophication Impacts. USEPA, Washington, DC
20460. (EPA 440/4-84-021).

USEPA, 1983. Technical Support Manual: Waterbody Surveys and Assessments for Conducting
Use Attainability Analyses. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-86-037).

                                              133
USEPA, 1983. Technical Support Manual: Waterbody Surveys and Assessments for Conducting
Use Attainability Analyses, Volume II, Estuarine Systems. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460.
(EPA 440/4-84-038).

USEPA, 1984. Guidelines for Deriving Numerical Aquatic Site-Specific Water Quality Criteria
by Modifying National Criteria, USEPA, Office of Research and Development, Environmental
Research Labs.

USEPA, 1984. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book II:
Streams and Rivers, Chapter 3: Toxic Substances. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA
440/4-84-022).

USEPA, 1984. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book VII:
Permit Averaging Periods. USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-87-002).

USEPA, 1985. Guidance for State Water Monitoring and Wasteload Allocation Programs.
USEPA, Monitoring & Data Support Div., Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-85-031).

USEPA, 1985. Guidelines for Deriving Numerical National Water Quality Criteria for the
Protection of Aquatic Organisms and Their Uses. USEPA, Office of Research and
Development, Environmental Research Labs. (EPA 822/R-85-100).

USEPA, 1986. Bacteriological Ambient Water Quality Criteria for Marine and Fresh
Recreational Waters. Office of Water Regulations & Standards, Criteria Division, Washington,
DC. 20560. (EPA 440/5-84-002).

USEPA, 1986. Engineering Support Branch Standard Operating Procedures and Quality
Assurance Manual. USEPA, Region IV, Environmental Services Div., College Station Rd,
Athens, GA 30613.

USEPA, 1986. Quality Criteria for Water 1986. Office of Water Regulations & Standards,
EPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/5-86-001).

USEPA, 1986. Taxonomy of Ceriodaphnia (Crustacea: Cladocera) in U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency Cultures. (EPA 600/4-86-032).

USEPA, 1986. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book IV:
Lakes, Rivers, and Impoundments. Chapter 3: Toxic Substances Impact. USEPA, Washington,
DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-87-002).

USEPA, 1986. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book VI:
Design Conditions, Chapter 1: Stream Design Flow for Steady-State Modeling. USEPA,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 440/4-86-014).


                                            134
USEPA, 1986. Test Methods for Escherichia coli and Enterococci in Water by the Membrane
Filter Procedure. USEPA, Environmental Monitoring & Support Lab, Cincinnati, OH 45268.
(EPA 600/4-85-076).

USEPA, 1987. Guidelines for the Culture of Fathead Minnows Pimephales Promelas for Use in
Toxicity Tests. (EPA 600/3-87-001).

USEPA, 1987. Surface Water Monitoring: A Framework for Change. USEPA, Office of Water,
401 M St, Washington, DC 20560.

USEPA, 1988. Generalized Methodology for Conducting Industrial Toxicity Reduction
Evaluations (TREs). (EPA 600/2-88-070).

USEPA, 1988. Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Waste Load Allocations, Book VI:
Supplementary Stream Design (Temperature, pH, Alkalinity, and Hardness for Steady-State
Modeling). USEPA, Washington, DC 20460.

USEPA, 1988. Toxicity Reduction Evaluation Protocol for Municipal Wastewater Treatment
Plants. (EPA 600/2-88-062).

USEPA, 1989. EPA Environmental Biology Section Standard Operating Procedures and Quality
Assurance Manual, Volume II. USEPA, Environmental Services Div., College Station Rd,
Athens, GA 30613.

USEPA, 1990. Biological Criteria, USEPA Office of Water, (EPA 440/5-90-004).

USEPA, 1991. Environmental Compliance Branch Standard Operating Procedures and Quality
Assurance Manual. USEPA, Region IV, Environmental Services Div., College Station Rd,
Athens, GA 30613.

USEPA, 1991. Methods for Aquatic Toxicity Identification Evaluations, Phase I Toxicity
Characterization Procedures. (EPA/600/6-91-003).

USEPA, 1991. Technical Support Document for Water Quality-Based Toxics Control. Office of
Water Enforcement & Permits, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 505/2-90-001).

USEPA, 1992. Compendium of Watershed-Scale Models for TMDL Development. USEPA,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 841/R-94-002).

USEPA, 1992. Interim Guidance on Interpretation and Implementation of Aquatic Life Criteria
for Metals. Office of Science and Technology, Health and Ecological Criteria Div. (EPA 821/R-
92-009).

USEPA, 1992. Introduction to Water Quality - Based Toxics Control for the NPDES Program,
USEPA, Office of Water. (EPA 831/S-92-002).

                                            135
USEPA, 1992. Monitoring Guidance for the National Estuary Program. USEPA, Office of
Water, 401 M St, Washington, DC 20560. (EPA 842/B-92-004).

USEPA, 1992. Toxicity Identification Evaluation: Characterization of Chronically Toxic
Effluents, Phase I. (EPA 600/6-91-/005F).

USEPA, 1993. Methods for Aquatic Toxicity Identification Evaluations, Phase II Toxicity
Identification Procedures for Samples Exhibiting Acute and Chronic Toxicity. (EPA 600/R-92-
080).

USEPA, 1993. Methods for Aquatic Toxicity Identification Evaluations, Phase III Toxicity
Confirmation Procedures for Samples Exhibiting Acute and Chronic Toxicity. (EPA 600/R-92-
081).

USEPA, 1994. Interim Guidance on Determination and Use of Water Effect Ratios for Metals.
USEPA, Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 823-B-94-001).

USEPA, 1995. Interim Economic Guidance for Water Quality Standards. USEPA Office of
Water. (EPA 823/B-95-002).

USEPA, 2001. Streamlined Water-Effect Ratio Procedure for Discharge of Copper. USEPA,
Washington, DC 20460. (EPA 822-R-01-005).

USEPA, 2002. Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to
Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fifth Edition, (EPA 821/R-02-012).

USEPA, 2002. Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and
Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms, Fourth Edition. (EPA 821/R-02-013).

USEPA, 2002. Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and
Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms. (EPA 821/R-02-014).

USEPA, 2006. National Recommended Water Quality Criteria. USEPA Office of Science and
Technology.

Velz, Clarence J., 1984. Applied Stream Sanitation: 2nd Ed. John Wiley & Sons, New York.

Wetzel, Robert G., 1983. Limnology: 2nd Ed. Saunders College Pub., Chicago.

Whittemore, PhD, Raymond C., 1987. Ultimate Oxygen Demand (Biochemical), Volume NE3.
Tufts University, NE Region Center, Dept. of Civil Engineering, Tufts, Medford, MA 02155.




                                           136
Wilson, James F., 1968. Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the United States
Geological Survey, Volume III, Fluorometric Procedures for Dye Tracing. U.S. Printing Office,
Washington, DC 20402.

Wilson, James F., and Cobb, Ernest C., 1984. Fluorometric Procedures for Dye Tracing. USGS,
Open File Service, W. Distribution Center, Box 25425 Fed Center, Denver CO 90225.

The Department may utilize any document which is approved by the Department and/or EPA
and/or duly promulgated through the Federal Administrative Procedures Act, and/or is
scientifically defensible.




                                            137
                     EXHIBIT G to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2
             TIER 3 NOMINATION DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

The following information, documentation, and data shall be provided to the Commission by any
person nominating a water body for Tier 3 or ONRW status:

1)     A United States Geological Survey 7.5 minute topographic map or its equivalent as
approved by the Commission showing those surface waters to be nominated including a
description consisting of a river mile index with any existing and proposed discharge points;

2)     Existing uses and water quality data for the surface water for which the nomination is
proposed. If adequate data are unavailable, additional studies may be required by the
Commission;

3)     Descriptions of general land uses and specific land uses adjacent to the surface water for
which the nomination is proposed;

4)     The existing and designated uses of the water upstream and downstream of the proposed
water body;

5)    General physical characteristics of the surface water including width, depth, bottom
composition, and slope;

6)    The frequency of occasions when there is no natural flow in the surface water, and the
7Q10 and harmonic mean flow values for the surface water and adjacent surface waters;

7)      An assessment of the existing and potential aquatic life habitat in the surface water under
consideration and the adjacent upstream surface waters. The existing aquatic life shall be
documented including the occurrence of individuals or populations, indices of diversity and well-
being, and abundance of species of any unique native biota;

8)      A documented rationale as to why the water qualifies for the nomination; and the
rationale used to support the national significance of the water;

9)      A listing of the types of persons, businesses, and organizations likely to be impacted by
the change in Tier designation. Current users, downstream users, and potential future users of
the water body and the surrounding land are the types of persons, businesses and organizations
likely to be impacted by the change in designation. Those potentially impacted include cities,
townships, permit holders, environmental organizations, and recreational users.




                                               138
Subchapter 3: Water Quality Certification of Activities Requiring Federal Licenses or Permits


Rule 1.3.1 Background and General Requirements.

A.      Background. Section 401 of the Federal Act, 33 U. S. C. Section 1341, requires any
applicant for a Federal license or permit to conduct any activity which may result in any
discharge into the waters of the United States to provide the licensing or permitting agency a
certification from the State in which the discharge originates or will originate that any discharge
will comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 301, 302, 303, 306 and 307 of the Federal Act,
33 U. S. C. §§ 1311, 1312, 1313, 1316 and 1317. Miss. Code Ann. § 49-2-7 provides that the
Department shall be responsible for conserving, managing, developing and protecting the natural
resources of the State of Mississippi. In addition, Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-28 authorizes the
Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board to issue water quality certifications required by
Section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act.

B.     General Requirements of Section 401 Certification.

       (1)     These regulations establish procedures and policies for implementing State water
               quality certification requirements of Section 401 of the Federal Act, 33 U.S.C. §
               1341 ("§ (Section) 401 Certification"), which is incorporated herein and adopted
               by reference.

       (2)     Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-28(3) and § 49-17-28(3)(a), the Executive
               Director is authorized to make decisions on issuance, reissuance, denial,
               modification, and revocation of water quality certifications on projects regarding
               which the Department has received no written adverse comments. Additionally,
               the Permit Board may authorize the Executive Director to implement these
               regulations and to make decisions on issuance, reissuance, denial, modification,
               and revocation of water quality certifications for other projects, including projects
               regarding which the Department receives adverse written comments. The
               Executive Director may further delegate this authority to appropriate Department
               staff members, pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-13(a) and (c) and 49-17-
               29(3)(a). For purposes of Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-29(3)(a), the word “permit”
               in the phrase “ permit issuance, reissuance, denial, modification or revocation”
               and in the phrase “all other permits within the jurisdiction of the Permit Board,”
               includes water quality certification actions taken pursuant to these regulations.
               The term "Department" in Rule 1.3.2 through 1.3.4 means:

               (a)    In a case where the Permit Board has authorized the Executive Director or
                      Department staff to act on a certification, the Department acting through
                      or under the direction of the Executive Director or the Executive Director
                      (her/him)self; or



                                               139
      (b)    In a case where the Permit Board has not authorized the Executive
             Director to act on a certification, or where the Executive Director has
             determined that the action should be taken by the Permit Board, the Permit
             Board.

             In Rule 1.3.5 and 1.3.6, the terms "Department" and "Permit Board" are
             specific to those entities.

(3)   Any applicant for a federal license or permit to conduct any activity which during
      construction or operation may result in any discharge to waters of the United
      States shall first obtain a certification from the Department that any such
      discharge will comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 301, 302, 303, 306 and
      307 of the Federal Act (33 U. S. C. §§ 1311, 1312, 1313, 1316, and 1317).
      Section 401 provides that no federal license or permit shall be granted until such
      certification is obtained. Federal permits or licenses for which certification is
      required include, but are not limited to, the following:

      (a) individual, general or nationwide Federal permits issued pursuant to § 404 of
          the Federal Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344;

      (b) federal permits issued pursuant to § 10 of the Federal Rivers and Harbors Act,
          33 U.S.C. § 403;

      (c) permits or licenses issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 16
          U.S.C. §1791, et seq.;

      (d) permits or licenses issued by the United States Coast Guard, Bridge
          Administration Branch;

      (e) any other federal permit or license to conduct any activity which may result in
          any discharge to waters of the United States.

(4)   Certification action is not required with regard to permits issued under federal law
      for which the State has received authority from the Administrator to issue, such as
      NPDES permits required under Section 402 of the Federal Act.

(5)   The Department may issue, deny or revoke certifications for categories of
      activities or for activities specified in Federal nationwide or general dredge and
      fill permits pursuant to federal law or regulations.

(6)   Any certification issued shall state that any discharge shall comply with
      applicable provisions of §§ 301, 302, 303, 306 and 307 of the Federal Act (33 U.
      S. C. §§ 1311, 1312, 1313, 1316, and 1317) and all State laws and regulations
      promulgated pursuant to the aforementioned sections of the Federal Act.


                                      140
       (7)    Any certification issued shall set forth limitations, conditions, and/or monitoring
              requirements necessary to assure (a) maintenance of classified or existing water
              uses and standards and (b) compliance with other requirements of these
              regulations or other appropriate requirements of State law and/or regulations.
              Monitoring requirements may include, but are not limited to, chemical analysis of
              water, sediment or fill material, and bioassays to determine potential water quality
              impacts of dredged material in accordance with EPA approved methods and/or
              the methods set forth in this Chapter.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.3.2 Applications.

A.     The application for certification shall be the public notice issued by the Federal
       permitting or licensing agency. The date of receipt of the public notice will be
       considered the date of application for certification if the application is deemed complete
       by the Department. To be deemed complete by the Department, all applications for
       certification shall at a minimum contain the information that follows:

       (1)    the name, address, phone numbers, principal place of business of the applicant
              and, if applicable, the name and address of the agent for the applicant;

       (2)    a complete description of the proposed activity, including the location, adjacent
              water body(s), purpose and intent of the project, maps, drawings, and plans
              (detailed engineering plans and specifications are not required);

       (3)    a description of all proposed discharges and/or other activities associated with the
              proposed activity, including planned or proposed future development by the
              applicant;

       (4)    a description of the composition, source, and quantity of any material to be
              dredged or used as fill and a description of the area to be impacted;

       (5)    the method of dredging or filling and specific plans for disposal and control of
              dredge spoils; and

       (6)    the names and addresses of adjacent property owners.

              Potential applicants are encouraged to contact the Department prior to submitting
              an application.

B.     The Department may require the applicant to provide water quality monitoring data,
       water quality modeling results, or other information necessary to complete the
       certification review.


                                              141
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.3.3 Public Notice and Public Hearing.

A.     Public Notice. Public notice of all applications for § 401 certification is required. Public
       notice may be accomplished through either a joint public notice between the federal
       and/or state agency and the Department or a public notice by the applicant at his expense.

       (1)    Joint public notice procedures with federal or state agencies are normally used to
              facilitate processing.

       (2)    If a joint public notice procedure is not implemented, public notice shall be
              accomplished by publication by the applicant in a newspaper having general
              circulation in the area in which the activity is proposed or throughout the State.
              The Department shall provide the applicant with the format for publication.

       (3)    The public notice of the application for certification shall provide a reasonable
              period of time, normally at least 30 days from the date of notice, within which
              interested persons may submit to the Department their comments and information
              concerning the certification application.

B.     Public Hearing.

       (1)    Any person may request a public hearing during the comment period. Requests
              shall be in writing addressed to the Department and shall state the issues to be
              raised at the hearing.

       (2)    The Department shall hold a public hearing whenever the Department determines
              such a hearing may be useful in reaching a decision on an application for
              certification. The public hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the
              Department makes its determination, and notifies the applicant. The Department
              shall coordinate with other regulatory agencies and conduct joint public hearings
              when feasible. The decision of whether public hearings shall be held jointly or
              independently will be made on a case-by-case basis.

       (3)    All public hearings shall be reported verbatim by a court reporter. A copy of the
              transcript shall be made available for public inspection.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.3.4 Scope of Review for Application Decisions.

A.     Factors. The factors related to the construction and operations of the activity which must
       be addressed by the applicant and will be considered in determining certification action
       are as follows:

                                               142
     (1)    feasible alternatives to the activity;

     (2)    mitigation;

     (3)    initial and secondary impacts on all existing and all classified uses of the waters
            of the State;

     (4)    degree of compliance of the proposed activity with the State of Mississippi Water
            Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters;

     (5)    degree of physical, chemical, and biological impacts on waters of the State;

     (6)    the effect on circulation patterns and water movement on waters of the State;

     (7)    degree of alteration of the aquatic ecosystem;

     (8)    degree of consistency with approved water quality management plans adopted by
            the Commission;

     (9)    storm water management;

     (10)   compliance history of the applicant; and

     (11)   any other factors deemed to be necessary by the Department to protect water
            quality.

B.   Denial. After consideration of the factors in Rule 1.3.4.A, a decision to issue or deny
     certification shall be made. However, it is the policy of the Department to deny
     certification when any of the following determinations are made unless the Department is
     assured that appropriate measures will be taken to eliminate unreasonable degradation
     and irreparable harm to waters of the State.

     (1)    The proposed activity permanently alters the aquatic ecosystem such that water
            quality criteria are violated and/or it no longer supports its existing or classified
            uses. An example is the channelization of streams.

     (2)    There is a feasible alternative to the activity which reduces adverse consequences
            on water quality and classified or existing uses of waters of the State.

     (3)    The proposed activity adversely impacts waters containing State or federally
            recognized threatened or endangered species.




                                              143
     (4)    The proposed activity adversely impacts a special or unique aquatic habitat, such
            as National or State Wild and Scenic Rivers and/or State Outstanding Resource
            Waters.

     (5)    The proposed activity in conjunction with other activities may result in adverse
            cumulative impacts.

     (6)    Nonpoint source/storm water management practices necessary to protect water
            quality have not been proposed.

     (7)    Denial of wastewater permits and/or approvals by the State with regard to the
            proposed activities.

     (8)    The proposed activity results in significant environmental impacts which may
            adversely impact water quality.

C.   Criteria. The Department has developed a number of criteria which the applicant must
     substantially satisfy when the proposed activity involves any of the items addressed
     below.

     (1)    Excavated Canals. These canals generally have flow and circulation less than that
            of the parent body of water and can become traps for organic material, nutrients
            and pollutants, resulting in a decline in water quality. Due to this potential for
            water quality degradation, the Department discourages canals. If no feasible
            alternatives are available, the Department has formulated a set of design and
            construction criteria to minimize the anticipated adverse water quality impacts.
            These criteria must be substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to
            be considered. The criteria with regard to canals is attached hereto as Exhibit A
            and incorporated herein by reference.

     (2)    Marinas. Numerous construction, development and operation activities at a
            marina can adversely impact water quality. In order to prevent potential adverse
            water quality impacts, the Department has formulated a set of criteria for marina
            development. These criteria must be substantially satisfied in order for
            certification issuance to be considered. The criteria with regard to marinas is
            attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.

     (3)    Sand and Gravel Mining Within or Adjacent to Streams. Potential physical
            effects of excavations adjacent to streams and sand/gravel mining within stream
            banks include, but are not limited to, stream channel modifications, such as
            alteration of flow patterns, sediment transport, increased headcutting and
            channelization. These effects may adversely impact water quality by causing
            increased turbidity, reduced light penetration, resuspension of pollutants,
            increased water temperatures, and decreased dissolved oxygen. All sand and
            gravel mining activities which require a Section 401 Water Quality Certification

                                            144
shall be evaluated in accordance with Rule 1.3.4.A and B. In addition, the
Department shall consider the following in evaluating sand and gravel mining
within or adjacent to streams.

(a)   Excavations Adjacent to Streams. To prevent adverse water quality
      impacts resulting from excavations adjacent to streams, the Department
      shall require a buffer zone between the mining activity and adjacent water
      bodies. A buffer zone (natural or undisturbed greenbelt on the perimeter
      of a land disturbing activity) shall be measured as the distance between the
      edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of the
      stream. Mining activity includes, but is not limited to, extraction
      operations, stockpiling of overburden or sand and gravel, gravel washing
      operations and sedimentation ponds. The purpose of the buffer zone is to
      prevent nonpoint source impacts and channel and hydraulic modifications.
      Channel and hydrologic modifications occur when the water body
      captures a mining pit during high water. The width of the buffer zone
      shall be based on the stream size. The buffer zone requirements for
      excavations adjacent to streams are as follow:

      (1)    Intermittent Streams. Mining activities adjacent to intermittent
             streams shall normally have a 50-foot buffer zone. Intermittent
             streams will generally be indicated by a broken blue line on the
             latest version of the United States Department of the Interior
             Geological Survey Quadrangle Map (Scale 1:24,000, 7.5 minute
             series). The applicant may file a written request with the
             Department to reroute an intermittent stream, either temporarily or
             permanently, to avoid the mining activity. The Department shall
             approve the applicant's request only if the applicant can
             demonstrate that no significant adverse water quality impacts will
             result from the rerouting. In the event the Department approves
             the rerouting of an intermittent stream, appropriate erosion and
             siltation controls shall be implemented. Slopes shall normally be
             graded to 3 to 1 (horizontal to vertical) or flatter and seeded with a
             native species of grass to prevent erosion. The Department may
             require a different slope, on a case-by-case basis, as long as the
             slope is protective of the integrity of the stream bank and water
             quality.

      (2)    Perennial Streams. Mining activities adjacent to perennial streams
             shall normally have a 150-foot buffer zone. Perennial streams will
             generally be indicated by a solid blue line on the latest version of
             the United States Department of the Interior Geological Survey
             Quadrangle Map (Scale 1:24,000, 7.5 minute series). When a
             perennial stream is also classified as a navigable waterway, the
             requirements regarding navigable waterways shall be applied.

                              145
                          (3)      Navigable Waterways. Mining activities adjacent to navigable
                                   waterways shall normally have a 300-foot buffer zone. Navigable
                                   waterways are defined and designated by the U. S. Army Corps of
                                   Engineers pursuant to Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act.

                                   The Department may require a different buffer zone, on a case by
                                   case basis, as long as the buffer zone is protective of water quality.
                                   In determining whether a different buffer zone is appropriate, the
                                   Department may consider factors including, but not limited to, the
                                   stability of the stream banks and the existing uses of the stream and
                                   adjacent areas.

                (b)       Sand/Gravel Mining within Stream Banks. The two types of sand/gravel
                          mining within stream banks include sand/gravel bar mining in-the-dry and
                          sand/gravel mining in-the-wet13. To prevent adverse water quality
                          impacts, the Department has formulated a set of criteria for sand/gravel
                          bar mining in-the-dry. These criteria are attached hereto as Exhibit C and
                          incorporated herein by reference. Except as otherwise provided in these
                          regulations, sand/gravel mining in-the-wet may be allowed if the applicant
                          can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that the water
                          quality impacts associated with the proposed activity are minor. In
                          assessing the impacts on water quality, the Department shall consider
                          these activities on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the factors set
                          forth in Rule 1.3.4 .A and B.

        (4)     Development Requiring Storm Water Management. Nonpoint source pollution is a
                significant obstacle to preserving and improving the quality of our state's
                waterways. In order to prevent adverse water quality impacts, the Department has
                formulated a set of criteria for storm water management. These criteria must be
                substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to be considered. The
                criteria with regard to storm water management is attached hereto as Exhibit D and
                incorporated herein by reference. These storm water runoff criteria are separate
                from any Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) required under any
                required storm water permit.

        (5)     Certain Existing Subdivisions on the Mississippi Gulf Coast originally platted in
                lands which, because of the passage of the Federal Act and related laws and/or
                regulations, are presently unsuitable for development.



13
    "Sand/gravel bar mining in-the-dry" is mining in such a manner that no equipment or dredged material is in
contact with flowing water, that the soil/water or groundwater interface is not touched by the equipment and that
infiltration in the mining site is not pumped into the stream. "Sand/gravel mining in-the-wet" is mining in such a
manner that equipment and dredged material may come in contact with water.
                                                      146
             Several coastal subdivisions were platted prior to the passage of a number of
             pertinent regulatory laws, including but not limited to, Sections 401 and 404 of the
             Federal Act. These subdivisions typically have waterfront access to estuarine
             waters by man-made canals, have inadequate sewage treatment, and require filling
             of productive salt marsh. Current law and regulatory policy would not allow the
             platting and/or development of such subdivisions due to adverse environmental
             impacts. However, in an attempt to allow residential development to proceed in
             existing platted and partially developed subdivisions, while addressing water
             quality concerns, the Department has formulated a set of criteria that must be
             substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to be considered. The
             criteria with regard to residential development in such subdivisions is attached
             hereto as Exhibit E and incorporated herein by reference.

             Notwithstanding the criteria set forth above, the Department may develop criteria
             for other proposed activities which may have an adverse impact on water quality.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.3.5 Enforcement of Certification Decisions and Conditions

A.     Any certification shall set forth any effluent limitations, other limitations, and monitoring
       requirements necessary to assure that any applicant for a Federal license or permit will
       comply with any applicable effluent limitations and other limitations under 33 U. S. C. §§
       1311 or 1312, standard of performance under 33 U. S. C. § 1316 or prohibition, effluent
       standard, or pretreatment standard under 33 U. S. C. § 1317, and with any other
       appropriate requirement of State law set forth in such certification. A certification
       condition becomes a condition of the Federal license or permit. For purposes of Miss.
       Code Ann. § 49-17-43, a violation of a certification condition is deemed a violation of a
       permit issued by the Permit Board.

B.     Certification conditions are subject to enforcement proceedings available to the federal
       agency issuing the permit or license. Other proceedings under State law, including
       modification and/or revocation and/or suspension of certification and enforcement
       actions pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-43, may also be used to correct or prevent
       adverse water quality impacts resulting from construction or operation of activities for
       which certification has been issued.

C.     The Department may conduct inspections for determining compliance with certification
       conditions.

D.     Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to limit the authority of any department or
       agency pursuant to any other provision of law to require compliance with any applicable
       water quality requirements.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

                                               147
Rule 1.3.6 Review and Appeals.

A.     Review of Certification Denial through Informal Review and Formal Hearings.

       (1)   Prior to the denial of an application for certification, the Department shall issue a
             notice of intent to deny certification to the applicant. Upon receipt of the notice of
             intent to deny, the applicant is encouraged immediately to contact the Department
             for further discussions regarding the application for certification.

       (2)   Within thirty days after the date the Department denies and/or revokes
             certification, an applicant may file a written request for an informal review with
             the Department. The Department shall fix the time and place of such informal
             review and shall notify the applicant thereof.

       (3)   Within thirty days after (1) the date the Department denies certification or (2) the
             date of the informal review in which the Department makes a decision to continue
             to deny certification, the applicant may file a written request for a formal hearing
             before the Permit Board. The request shall set forth grounds for the hearing
             request and be made in accordance with Miss. Code Ann § 49-17-29(4)(b).

       (4)   If an initial decision to deny the application is made by the Permit Board instead of
             by the Department, the applicant may request a formal hearing before the Permit
             Board pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-29(b).

B.     Review of Other Certification Actions. Any interested party aggrieved by an action of
       the Department or the Permit Board concerning a water quality certification may request
       a formal hearing before the Permit Board within thirty days after the date the Permit
       Board takes action, as recorded in the minutes of the Permit Board, pursuant to Miss.
       Code Ann. § 49-17-29(b). "As recorded in the minutes of the Permit Board" means the
       date of the Permit Board meeting at which the action concerned is taken by the permit
       board.

C.     Appeals of Certification Action. Following the formal hearing, the final action of the
       Permit Board upon such matters shall be conclusive unless the applicant perfects an
       appeal to the appropriate chancery court within twenty days of the Permit Board's action,
       as specified by Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-29(4)(c) and (5).

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                              148
                     EXHIBIT A to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3
        CRITERIA FOR THE SITING AND DESIGN OF EXCAVATED CANALS

I.     Criteria for Canal Design and Siting

(a)     Canals shall not be constructed or excavated in wetlands, creeks or natural drainage
ways.
(b)     Canals should all have two or more connections to the parent body of water to allow
greater flow through the system.
(c)     Canals shall not be box cut. Slopes of canal banks shall be one vertical to three
horizontal or flatter to promote colonization by littoral vegetation, which provides nutrient
uptake, habitat and bank stabilization. Any bulkheading shall be done above ordinary high
water.
(d)     Canals shall be no deeper than -4 to -5 feet normal water level due to problems with
incomplete mixing, poor reaeration, stratification, and depressed dissolved oxygen associated
with excessive depths.
(e)     Excavation resulting in ridges or depressions within the canal shall be avoided due to
limitations on water exchange.
(f)     Where feasible, canal projects shall be located on the run of a river rather than in a pool
and backwater segment.
(g)     Canals shall be designed to maximize wind-induced mixing and other natural forms of
reaeration. For example, the longest dimension of the canal should be oriented with prevailing
winds. Complex geometric designs shall be avoided and keyhole boat slips shall not be placed
off of the canal. The minimum bottom width of a canal shall be 100 feet in order to allow for
reaeration.
(h)     Where feasible, designs shall have an enlarged surface area (a pool or embayment) which
is shallower than the canal at the landward terminus. This design results in better water quality
due to the enhanced effects of wind reaeration in the pool and in creased flow because of the
storage area in the pool.

II.    Wastewater Treatment

A central sewage collection and treatment system is the preferred method of wastewater
treatment. Individual home disposal systems shall only be considered after a determination is
made that other treatment methods are not economically feasible and State Department of Health
approval shall then be required. Wastewater treatment approval from either the Department or
the State Department of Health must be obtained prior to the issuance of a § 401 Certification.

The minimum requirements for wastewater treatment approvals shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:

(a)    no effluent, treated or untreated, shall be discharged directly into the canal,
(b)    depending on the soil type, a minimum of 150 feet from a septic tank absorption field to
any water body shall be required,


                                               149
(c)     the bottom of a septic tank absorption field shall be at least five feet above the impervious
layer or groundwater, and
(d)     the bottom of a septic tank absorption field shall be above the 10-year flood plain.

III.   Storm Water Management

Storm water runoff from any project site shall be directed away from the canals to prevent
discharge of water-borne contaminants, bacteria, nutrients, oils, greases, sediments, etc.




                                                150
                      EXHIBIT B to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3
                FRESHWATER AND COASTAL MARINA GUIDELINES

I.     Siting Criteria

A.     Marinas shall be located in areas that eliminate or minimize the loss of wetland
vegetation.

B.     Marinas shall not be sited in open shellfish harvesting waters.

C.     Marina design shall not disrupt normal water circulation patterns or restrict tidal flow in
adjacent water bodies.

D.     Marina basins shall provide for water circulation and be designed to accommodate tidal
flushing by incorporating flow through breakwaters or similar structures.

E.      Marina basins excavated from uplands shall be designed to optimize tidal flushing and
internal circulation.

1.     The basin should be rectangular and have a length to width ratio between 0.5 and 2.0.

2.     Corners in the basin interior should be rounded.

3.      The basin should have a symmetric entrance(s) with maximum width and minimum
length.

4.      The basin shall not be greater in depth than the entrance channel which shall be no deeper
than the controlling navigational depth.

5.     Basin and channel depths shall gradually increase toward open water.

II.    Sewage Treatment Guidelines

A.     No persons shall live on boats moored at the marina unless the boats are equipped with a
Type III (non-discharging) marine sanitation device (MSD).

B.     A wastewater pumpout facility shall be provided for the following:

1.     marinas that are located within one tidal cycle of open shellfish harvesting waters,

2.     marinas that berth more than twenty-five (25) boats,

3.     marinas that berth any boats used in a live-aboard status,

4.     marinas that berth a majority of commercial boats,

                                               151
5.     marinas that are in close proximity to a public water supply intake, or

6.     marinas that are in close proximity to a swimming area.

C.     Marinas utilizing wastewater pumpout facilities shall prominently display a sign at the
marina showing the location of the nearest pumpout facility as well as other appropriate waste
disposal information.

D.     The pumpout facility shall be tied into a collection and treatment system that has the
approval of the Department or State Department of Health.

E.     All marinas shall observe compliance with a "locked head" policy for all docked vessels
with Type I and II MSDS and the notification of this policy to marina users shall be initiated
upon completion of the project.

III.   Storm Water Management

The applicability of these criteria will be determined by the Department on a case-by-case basis.
If storm water runoff management is necessary to protect water quality, criteria shall be applied
as follows:

A.     Approximately the first half inch (0.5) of storm water runoff from impervious surfaces
and boat maintenance areas shall be retained. Runoff shall be routed through grassed swales,
wetlands, retention and detention ponds and other systems that decrease run off velocity,
increase infiltration and allow suspended solids to settle and remove pollutants in the water
column.

B.      Surface runoff from the construction, operation and/or maintenance of any service facility
associated with the marina, especially boat maintenance areas, shall not discharge directly into
water bodies with limited flushing and pollutant assimilation potential (i.e., marina basin,
entrance channels). When storm water outfalls are necessary, they shall be located to discharge
into areas with high flushing rates.

C.      Porous surfaces such as crushed stone or shell shall be used wherever possible
(particularly in parking areas).

D.      Clearing shall be minimized and vegetated buffers such as marsh or natural vegetation
shall be created and/or retained on the site between land disturbance activities and water areas.

E.     Erosion and sediment controls shall be installed prior to commencement of upland
construction.




                                               152
IV.   Fueling Facilities

A.      Fuel storage tanks shall be located onshore above ground unless the tanks meet the
federal requirements for underground storage tanks in 40 C.F.R. 280.

B.     Containment dikes shall be constructed around above ground storage tanks. The diked
area shall be able to contain:

1.    the volume of the tank plus a ten-year, 24-hour rainfall event, or
2.    150% of the volume of the tank.




                                              153
                        EXHIBIT C to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3
                    SAND AND GRAVEL BAR MINING IN-THE-DRY

1.     The only vehicles/equipment on the sandbar shall be loading equipment and off-road
hauling equipment. All highway vehicles shall remain on the access road.

2.     The stream banks shall remain sloped and intact. Any disturbance shall be repaired.

3.    Vegetation on the stream bank shall remain undisturbed except for a minimum area
(normally less than 20 feet in width) necessary for ingress and egress to the site.

4.     The stream bottom shall remain intact.

5.      The mining activity shall be conducted in the dry. A natural undisturbed area of at least
15 feet in width shall be left between the mining activity and the stream flow. No equipment
shall be allowed to operate in the undisturbed area.

6.     Measures shall be taken to prevent erosion and sedimentation.

7.     In no event shall a sand bar adjacent to a previously mined sand bar be mined until the
previously mined sand bar has substantially replenished to pre-mining conditions. Additionally,
sand bars less than one river mile apart shall not be mined concurrently.

8.      No mining activity shall be conducted at sharply angled bendways (90° or more change
in direction) unless the applicant has demonstrated to the Department that there is no significant
potential of bisecting the point bar and altering the existing flow pattern.

9.     No mining activity shall be conducted on mid-channel sand bars.

10.     Vegetation and debris disturbed during the mining activity shall be removed to an upland
location and placed in such a manner as to prevent re-entry into the stream.

11.     Mined material shall not be stored or stockpiled within the banks of the stream, except for
a limited quantity for daily operation.

12.    No rubbish, trash, oil, lubricating material, or other pollutants shall be stored within the
banks of the stream or be placed in a location where they are likely to cause pollution of any
waters of the State.

13.     When work is completed in an area, normal physical characteristics of the work area shall
be restored, to the extent practicable, without causing additional disturbance. The site shall be
graded to smooth contours while maintaining the integrity of the undisturbed areas and the
stream bank.



                                                154
14.    The Department may require additional conditions and limitations necessary to protect
water quality.




                                            155
EXHIBIT D to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - STORM WATER RUNOFF PLAN

1.     Appropriate installation of erosion and sediment controls shall be required during the
construction phase.

2.      Approximately the first half inch (0.5) of storm water runoff from impervious surfaces
(ex. parking lots) shall be temporarily ponded on site and treated through infiltration, settling and
evapotranspiration.

3.      Grassed/sanded areas and grassed waterways shall be incorporated into the drainage /
landscape design to provide maximum opportunity for infiltration and filtration of storm water
runoff.

4.     Buffer zones shall be maintained on the project perimeter where possible to provide
treatment of overland flow before leaving site (minimum 15 feet).

5.     The Department may include additional requirements necessary to protect water quality.




                                                156
EXHIBIT E to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 - CRITERIA FOR CERTAIN EXISTING
COASTAL SUBDIVISIONS ORIGINALLY PLATTED IN LANDS WHICH, BECAUSE
OF THE PASSAGE OF THE FEDERAL ACT AND RELATED LAWS AND/OR
REGULATIONS, ARE PRESENTLY UNSUITABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT

1.     House fill shall be limited to one foot beyond the "drip line" around the house or 1,500
square feet, whichever is smaller.

2.     Driveway fill shall not exceed 500 square feet. If surface drainage will be impaired,
appropriate culverts must be provided.

3.     Bulkheads, if allowed, shall be constructed no further water-ward than mean high tide.

4.     State Department of Health approval shall be required on all individual home disposal
systems.

5.     Fill material must be confined / stabilized to prevent intrusion into adjoining waters.

6.      The lot must be directly accessible by an existing improved road or street along which at
least one dwelling has been constructed.




                                               157
Part 6: Chapter 2: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Regulations for
Water Quality Criteria For Intrastate, Interstate, And Coastal Waters

                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

Rule 2.1 General Conditions

Rule 2.2 Minimum Condition Applicable to All Waters

Rule 2.3 Specific Water Quality Criteria

Rule 2.4 Designated Uses In State Waters

Rule 2.1 General Conditions:

A.     Antidegradation: The policy inherent in the standards shall be to protect water quality
       existing at the time these water quality standards were adopted and to upgrade or enhance
       water quality within the State of Mississippi. Waters whose existing quality is better than
       the established standards will be maintained at high quality unless the Commission finds,
       after full satisfaction of the intergovernmental coordination and public participation
       provisions of the State's continuing planning process, that allowing lower water quality is
       necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area in
       which the waters are located. In no event, however, may degradation of water quality
       interfere with or become injurious to existing instream water uses. Further, in no case
       will water quality be degraded below (or above) the base levels set forth in these
       standards for the protection of the beneficial uses described herein. In addition, the State
       will assure that there shall be achieved the highest statutory and regulatory requirements
       for all new and existing point sources and all cost-effective and reasonable best
       management practices for nonpoint source control. Where the Commission determines
       that high quality waters constitute an outstanding national resource, such as waters of
       National State Parks, Wildlife Refuges, and waters of exceptional recreational or
       ecological significance, that water quality shall be maintained and protected. For the
       purposes of this rule, existing uses are defined as those uses actually attained in the water
       body on or after November 28, 1975, whether or not they are included in the Water
       Quality Criteria.

B.     Sampling and Assessment: The limiting values of water quality herein described shall be
       measured by the Commission in waters under consideration as determined by good
       environmental engineering and scientific practice and after consultation with affected
       parties. Samples shall be taken from points so distributed over the seasons of the year,
       time of day, and area and depth of the waters being studied as to permit a realistic
       assessment of water quality. All sampling must be conducted in accordance with the
       MDEQ-approved Quality Management Plan (QMP), Quality Assurance Project Plan
       (QAPP), or its equivalent.


                                               158
     Samples shall be analyzed in accordance with methodology specified in 40 CFR 136 and
     with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
     Wastewater or other methods acceptable to the Commission.

C.   Designated Use Attainability: Certain waters of the State may not fall within desired or
     prescribed limitations as outlined. In such instances the Commission may authorize
     exceptions to these limits, under the following conditions:

     (1)    the designated use is not attainable because of natural background conditions; or

     (2)    the designated use is not attainable because of irretrievable man-induced
     conditions; or

     (3)      the application of effluent limitations for existing point sources is more stringent
     than those required pursuant to Section 301(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Federal Water
     Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, in order to attain the designated use, would
     result in substantial and widespread adverse economic and social impact.

     In no case shall it be permissible to deposit or introduce materials into waters of the State
     that will cause impairment of the reasonable or legitimate use of said waters.

D.   Natural Conditions: Natural conditions are defined as background water quality
     conditions due only to non-anthropogenic sources. The criteria herein apply specifically
     with regard to substances attributed to sources (discharges, nonpoint sources, or instream
     activities) as opposed to natural phenomena. Waters may naturally have characteristics
     outside the limits established by these criteria. Therefore, naturally occurring conditions
     that fail to meet criteria should not be interpreted as violations of these criteria.

E.   Criteria: In view of the fact that industry is continuing to produce new materials whose
     characteristics and effects are unknown at this time or for which incomplete national
     criteria have been established, for the purposes of setting water quality standards or
     permit limits on a case-by-case basis, such materials shall be evaluated on their merits as
     information becomes available to the Commission. Sources of information shall include,
     but not be limited to, the latest edition of Quality Criteria for Water, prepared by the
     Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Federal Clean Water
     Act.

F.   Applicable Flow: All criteria contained herein shall apply to all stages of stream flow
     greater than or equal to the 7-day, 10-year minimum flow (7Q10) in unregulated, natural
     streams, and the legally guaranteed minimum flow in regulated streams, unless otherwise
     provided in these regulations. This requirement shall not be interpreted to permit any
     unusual waste discharges during periods of lower flow. Notwithstanding the above, a
     stream flow equal to the 7-day, 2-year minimum flow (7Q2) in unregulated natural
     streams shall be utilized in establishing permit limitations for storm water permits. In
     cases in which either (1) the data are indefinite or inconclusive, or (2) the 7-day, 2-year

                                             159
     minimum flow and/or the 7-day, 10-year minimum flow are inappropriate because of the
     hydrology of the area, other appropriate State and federal agencies will be consulted in
     establishing the applicable stream flow.

G.   Mississippi River: The Mississippi River is classified for Fish and Wildlife, but with the
     following additions to the criteria stated herein:

        Mineral Constituents: Not to exceed the following concentrations at any time:

        From Mississippi-Tennessee border to Vicksburg

        Chlorides                                  60 mg/l
        Sulfates                                  150 mg/l
        TDS                                       425 mg/l

        From Vicksburg south to the Mississippi-Louisiana border

        Chlorides                                  75 mg/l
        Sulfates                                  120 mg/l
        TDS                                       400 mg/l

H.   Mixing Zones: It is recognized that limited areas of mixing are sometimes unavoidable;
     however, mixing zones shall not be used as a substitute for waste treatment. Mixing
     zones constitute an area whereby physical mixing of a wastewater effluent with a
     receiving water body occurs. Application of mixing zones shall be made on a case-by-
     case basis and shall only occur in cases involving large surface water bodies in which a
     long distance or large area is required for the wastewater to completely mix with the
     receiving water body.

     The location of a mixing zone shall not significantly alter the designated uses of the
     receiving water outside its established boundary. Adequate zones of passage for the
     migration and free movement of fish and other aquatic biota shall be maintained.
     Toxicity and human health concerns within the mixing zone shall be addressed as
     specified in the Environmental Protection Agency Technical Support Document for
     Water Quality-Based Toxics Control (EPA-505/2-90-001, March 1991) and amendments
     thereof. Under no circumstances shall mixing zones overlap or cover tributaries, nursery
     locations, locations of threatened or endangered species, or other ecologically sensitive
     areas.

I.   Coastal Recreational Waters: Coastal Recreational Waters are marine and estuarine
     waters that are suitable for recreational purposes, including such water contact activities
     as swimming, wading, and water skiing. Coastal recreational waters do not include
     inland waters upstream of the mouth of a river or a stream having a natural connection to
     the open sea. Water quality monitoring for bacteria content is conducted on these waters
     to protect the health of bathers. Water contact is discouraged on Mississippi’s public

                                            160
        access bathing beaches along the shoreline of Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock Counties
        when enterococci exceed 104 colonies per 100 ml. When enterococci counts         exceed
        104 per 100 ml at the public access beaches, water contact advisories are issued by
        Mississippi’s Beach Monitoring Task Force.

J.      Definitions:

     (1) Acute criterion or Criteria Maximum Concentration (CMC) is the highest concentration
         of a pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for a short period of time (1-hour
         average) without deleterious effects. (40 CFR 131.36)

     (2) Best management practice (BMP) means a structural or nonstructural management-based
         practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source inputs to receiving
         waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.

     (3) Bioconcentration Factor (BCF) is defined as the ratio (in L/kg-tissue) of the concentration
         of a substance in tissue of an aquatic organism to its concentration in the ambient water,
         in situations where the organism is exposed through the water only and the ratio does not
         change substantially over time. (EPA-822-B-00-004)

     (4) Biological integrity is defined as the ability of a system to support and maintain a
         balanced, integrated, and adaptive community of organisms having a composition,
         diversity, and functional organization comparable to that of natural habitats of the region.

     (5) Cancer Potency Factor (CPF) is a measure of the cancer-causing potency of a substance
         estimated by the upper 95 percent confidence limit of the slope of a straight line
         calculated by the Linearized Multistage Model according to the U.S. Environmental
         Protection Agency Guidelines (FR 51(185): 339992-34003, and FR 45(231 Part V);
         79318-79379).

     (6) Chronic Criterion or Criteria Continuous Concentration (CCC) is the highest
         concentration of a pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for an extended period
         of time (4 days) without deleterious effects. (40 CFR 131.36)

     (7) Clean techniques refers to an integrated system of sample collection and laboratory
         analytical procedures designed to detect concentrations of trace metals below criteria
         levels and eliminate or minimize inadvertent sample contamination that can occur during
         traditional sampling practices.

     (8) Composite sampling is a technique whereby multiple temporally or spatially discrete
         media or tissue samples are combined, thoroughly homogenized, and treated as a single
         sample.




                                                 161
(9)   E. coli (Escherichia coli) is a common inhabitant of the intestinal tract of warm-blooded
      animals, and its presence in water samples is an indication of fecal pollution and the
      possible presence of enteric pathogens.

(10) Enteric pathogens are a species of bacteria can be highly pathogenic when they enter and
     colonize the human digestive tract.

(11) Grab samples are samples where the entire sample is collected in one uninterrupted
     interval.

(12) Mean Annual Flow is the total of daily mean flows for the full period of record divided
     by the total days for the full period of record.

(13) Membrane Filtration (MF) is a method of quantitative or qualitative analysis of
     bacterial or particulate matter in a water sample filtered through a membrane capable of
     retaining bacteria.

(14) Most probable number (MPN) is the most probable number of coliform-group
     organisms per unit volume of sample water.

(15) Point source is a stationary location or fixed facility from which pollutants are
     discharged or emitted. Also, any single identifiable source of pollution, e.g., a pipe,
     ditch, or ship.

(16) 7Q10 is the average streamflow rate over seven consecutive days that may be expected
     to be reached as an annual minimum no more frequently than one year in ten years.

(17) 7Q2 is the average streamflow rate over seven consecutive days that may be expected to
     be reached as an annual minimum no more frequently than one year in two years.

(18) Stratification is the formation of layers of water within a water body that are of different
     densities. The density difference may be caused by variations of temperature, salinity,
     or concentrations of other dissolved substances within the water at different depths.

(19) Threshold odor number is the number of times a sample needs to be diluted with clean
     water in order to reach the level that smell is not detectable.

(20) Toxic substance means any substance or combination of substances (including disease-
     causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or
     assimilation into any organism, whether directly from the environment or indirectly by
     ingestion through food chains, has the potential to cause death, disease, behavioral
     abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological malfunctions (including
     malfunctions or suppression in reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such
     organisms or their offspring.


                                             162
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.



Rule 2.2 Minimum Conditions Applicable to All Waters:

A.      Narrative Standards

        (1)     Waters shall be free from substances attributable to municipal, industrial,
        agricultural, or other discharges that will settle to form putrescent or otherwise
        objectionable sludge deposits.

        (2)     Waters shall be free from floating debris, oil, scum, and other floating materials
        attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural, or other discharges in amounts
        sufficient to be unsightly or deleterious.

        (3) Waters shall be free from materials attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural,
        or other discharges producing color, odor, taste, total suspended or dissolved solids,
        sediment, turbidity, or other conditions in such degree as to create a nuisance, render the
        waters injurious to public health, recreation, or to aquatic life and wildlife, or adversely
        affect the palatability of fish, aesthetic quality, or impair the waters for any designated
        use. Except as prohibited in Rule 2.1.H. above, the turbidity outside the limits of a 750-
        foot mixing zone shall not exceed the background turbidity at the time of discharge by
        more than 50 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). Exemptions to the turbidity
        standard may be granted under the following circumstances:

               (a)     in cases of emergency to protect the public health and welfare

               (b)     for environmental restoration projects which will result in reasonable and
                       temporary deviations and which have been reviewed and approved by the
                       Department of Environmental Quality.

        (4)     Waters shall be free from substances attributable to municipal, industrial,
        agricultural, or other discharges in concentrations or combinations that are toxic or
        harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life. Specific requirements for toxicity are found
        in Rule 2.2.F.

        (5)    Municipal wastes, industrial wastes, or other wastes shall receive effective
        treatment or control in accordance with Section 301, 306, and 307 of the Federal Clean
        Water Act. A degree of treatment greater than defined in these sections may be required
        when necessary to protect legitimate water uses.

     B. Water Body Classifications and Designated Uses: The State of Mississippi water body
        classifications and corresponding U.S. EPA associated designated uses for water quality
        assessment purposes recognized by the State of Mississippi are as follows:

                                                163
Table 1. Mississippi Water Body Classifications and Designated Uses
       MS Water Body Classification         U.S. EPA Associated Designated Use
       Public Water Supply                  Drinking Water Supply
       Recreation                           Primary Contact Recreation
       Shellfish Harvesting                 Shellfish Consumption
                                            Aquatic Life Use
       Fish and Wildlife                    Fish Consumption
                                            Secondary Contact Recreation

      A water body classified as Public Water Supply, Recreation, or Shellfish Harvesting shall
      meet not only the criteria to support its respective classification, but also shall meet the
      criteria to support the Fish and Wildlife classification.

C.    Dissolved Oxygen: Dissolved oxygen concentrations shall be maintained at a daily
      average of not less than 5.0 mg/l with an instantaneous minimum of not less than 4.0
      mg/l.

      When possible, samples should be taken from ambient sites according to the following
      guidelines:

             For waters bodies that are not stratified, samples should be taken:

                     At mid-depth if the total water column depth is 10 feet or less.
                     At 5 feet from the water surface if the total water column depth is greater
                     than 10 feet.

             For waters that are stratified, samples should be taken:

                     At mid-depth of the epilimnion if the epilimnion depth is 10 feet or less.
                     At 5 feet from the water surface if the epilimnion depth is greater than 10
                     feet.

D.    pH: The normal pH of the waters shall be 6.0 to 9.0. The discharge of waters or
      wastewaters should not cause the pH to vary more than 1.0 unit within this range, nor be
      less than 6.0, nor be greater than 9.0. Variations may be allowed on a case-by-case basis
      if the Commission determines that there will be no detrimental effect on the water body’s
      designated uses as a result of the greater pH change. In black water streams and in those
      watersheds with highly acidic soils, the pH may be lower than 6.0 due to natural
      conditions.
                                              164
E.   Temperature: The maximum water temperature increase above natural temperatures shall
     not exceed 5°F (2.8°C) in streams, lakes, and reservoirs nor shall he maximum water
     temperature exceed 90F (32.2C), except that in the Tennessee River the temperature
     shall not exceed 86F (30C). In lakes and reservoirs, there shall be no withdrawals
     from or discharge of heated waters to the hypolimnion unless it can be shown that such
     discharge will be beneficial to water quality.

     In all waters the normal daily and seasonal temperature variations that were present
     before the addition of artificial heat shall be maintained. The maximum water
     temperature shall not exceed 90F (32.2C) in coastal or estuarine waters. The discharge
     of any heated waste into any coastal or estuarine waters shall not raise temperatures more
     than 4F (2.2C) above natural background temperatures during the months of October
     through May nor more than 1.5F (0.8C) above natural background temperature during
     the months of June through September.

     There shall be no thermal block to the migration of aquatic organisms. Requirements for
     zones of passage as referenced in Rule 2.1.H. shall apply. The general requirements of
     Rule 2.1.B. state that samples should be taken from points so distributed over the seasons
     of the year, time of day, and area and depth of the waters being studies as to permit a
     realistic assessment of water quality. Therefore, the temperature shall be measured
     during the environmentally critical period. In addition, temperature shall be measured at
     a depth of 5 feet in waters 10 feet or greater in depth; and for those waters less than 10
     feet in depth, temperature criteria will be applied at mid-depth.

     In those specific cases where natural conditions elevate the temperatures in excess of the
     limits expressed herein, Rule 2.2.E. shall apply on a case-by-case basis. The discharge of
     any heated waters into a stream, lake, or reservoir shall not raise temperatures more than
     5°F(2.8°C) above natural condition temperatures. The discharge of any heated waste into
     any coastal or estuarine waters shall not raise temperatures more than 4F (2.2C) above
     natural condition temperatures during the months of October through May nor more than
     1.5F (0.8C) above natural condition temperatures during the months of June through
     September. This will also be considered on a case-by-case basis requiring evidence that
     the aquatic life of the water body will not be adversely impacted by the elevated
     temperatures.

F.   Toxic Substances:

     (1)    Aquatic Life and Human Health Standards

            (a)     Aquatic Life - The concentration of toxic substances in State waters shall
                    not result in chronic or acute toxicity or impairment of the uses of aquatic
                    life. Toxicity concentrations in State waters in excess of these values
                    shown in Table 2 will be assessed to determine chronic or acute toxicity,
                    and/or the impairment of the uses of aquatic life. Chronic and/or acute
                                            165
             toxicity will be determined in accordance with the Water Quality
             Standards Handbook: Second Edition (EPA-823-B-94-005a, August
             1994) and Technical Support Document for Water Quality-Based Toxics
             Control (EPA-505/2-90-001, March 1991). Regardless of the results of
             chronic or acute toxicity bioassay surveys, the concentrations of toxic
             substances shall not exceed the chronic or acute values, except as provided
             for in Rules 2.2.F.5(a) and 2.2.F.5(b).

      (b)    Human Health - The concentration of toxic substances shall not exceed the
             level necessary to protect human health through exposure routes of fish
             (and shellfish) tissue consumption, water consumption, or other routes
             identified as appropriate for the water body.

(2)   Numeric criteria for all waters are established herein for certain toxic pollutants
      for which the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published national
      criteria for the protection of aquatic life and human health pursuant to Section
      304(a) of the Federal Clean Water Act in addition to chlorine and ammonia. The
      pollutants are listed in Table 2 and are expressed as the dissolved phase of the
      parameter.

(3)   Ammonia toxicity shall be evaluated according to EPA guidelines published in
      1999 Update of Ambient Water Quality Criteria for Ammonia; EPA document
      number EPA-822-R-99-014 or Ambient Water Quality Criteria for Ammonia
      (Saltwater) - 1989; EPA document number 440/5-88-004. This material related to
      ammonia toxicity is hereby incorporated by reference including any subsequent
      amendments and editions.

(4)   Application of Numerical Criteria:

      (a)    When evaluating human health effects all waters must comply with the
             Organisms Only criteria except for waters classified as Public Water
             Supply and all stream segments within 50 stream miles upstream of a
             drinking water intake. Stream segments that are classified as Public Water
             Supply or are within 50 miles upstream of a drinking water intake shall
             comply with the Water and Organisms criteria.

      (b)    When applying acute or chronic toxicity or human health criteria the
             following stream flows shall be used:

             Acute Toxicity - 7Q10
             Chronic Toxicity - 7Q10
             Human Health - Mean Annual Flow

      (c)    Criteria for certain metals may be modified on a site-specific basis when a
             water effect ratio (WER) is conducted in accordance with Rule 2.6.C.2.a.

                                      166
                 of Mississippi’s Wastewater Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge
                 Elimination System (NPDES) Permits, Underground Injection Control
                 (UIC) Permits, State Permits, Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations

                 and Water Quality Certification, Title 11, Part 6, Chapter 1. In these
                 instances, the criterion for the specific metal in the affected water body
                 shall be equal to the criterion concentrations calculated using the
                 following equations:


                          CMC = WER * Acute and CCC = WER * Chronic


                 Where:           CC = Criteria Continuous Concentration
                                  CMC = Criteria Maximum Concentration
                                  WER = Water Effects Ratio for a Specific Pollutant
                                  Acute = Acute Criterion from Table 2
                                  Chronic = Chronic Criterion from Table 2

      When a WER has not been conducted, the criterion listed in Table 2 of this regulation
      shall apply because the value of the WER is presumed to equal one in the absence of
      data to indicate otherwise.

(5)      Discharge Specific Criteria:

         (a)     Existing Discharges

                 (1)      The Commission may establish discharger specific alternative
                          criteria for existing discharges if all of the following conditions are
                          satisfied:

                          (i)     Discharge existed prior to December 1, 1988.

                          (ii)    Discharger performs acute and/or chronic bioassays and
                                  instream biological assessments and other evaluations as
                                  deemed appropriate by the Commission.

                          (iii)   The designated use of the waters is maintained.

                 (2)      All discharger specific alternative criteria will be subject to
                          Mississippi public participation requirements for revisions to water
                          quality standards and will be subject to review by the U. S.
                          Environmental Protection Agency.

         (b)     New Source Discharges

                                           167
            (1)    The Commission may establish discharger specific criteria for new
                   source discharges if the discharger can demonstrate that
                   established Water Quality Criteria are based on conditions not
                   applicable to Mississippi such as, but not limited to, the use of
                   species not indigenous to Mississippi.

            (2)    All discharger specific alternative criteria will be subject to
                   Mississippi public participation requirements for revisions to water
                   quality standards and will be subject to review by the U. S.
                   Environmental Protection Agency.

(6)   Toxic and Human Health Parameters for which no Numeric Criteria have been
      Established:

      (a)   For those toxic and human health parameters for which no numeric criteria
            have been established, the Commission shall determine limitations using
            available references which shall include, but not be limited to, Quality
            Criteria for Water (Section 304(a)), Federal regulations under Section 307
            of the Clean Water Act, and Federal regulations under Section 1412 of the
            Public Health Service Act as amended by the Safe Drinking Act (Pub. 93-
            523).

      (b)   The not to be exceeded value for criteria published in 1980 or the one hour
            average value for criteria published in 1985 or later shall be used as an
            acute toxicity number for calculating effluent limitations, establishing
            Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs), or reviewing ambient water
            quality data.

      (c)   The 24-hour average for criteria published in 1980 or the 4-day average
            for criteria published in 1985 or later shall be used as a chronic toxicity
            number for calculating effluent limitations, establishing TMDLs, or
            reviewing ambient water quality data.

      (d)   If metals concentrations for criteria are hardness-dependent, the chronic
            and acute concentrations shall be based on 25 mg/l hardness if the ambient
            hardness is less than or equal to 25 mg/l. Concentrations shall be based on
            the actual mixed stream hardness.

      (e)   If separate criteria are given for fresh and salt waters, they shall be applied
            as appropriate.

      (f)   For non-carcinogens, these concentrations will be determined using a
            Reference Dose (RfD) as published by the U. S. Environmental Protection
            Agency pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Act as

                                     168
amended unless a more recent RfD is issued by the U. S. Environmental
Protection Agency as listed in the Integrated Risk Information System
(IRIS) file, in which case the more recent value will be used. Water
quality standards or criteria used to calculate water quality-based effluent
limitations (and for all other purposes of water quality criteria under
Section 303(c) of the Clean Water Act) to protect human health through
the different exposure routes are determined as follows:

(1)    Fish tissue consumption:


       WQC = (RfD) x Body Weight / (FCR x BCF)


       where: WQC = water quality criterion
       RfD = reference dose
       FCR = fish consumption rate (17.5 gm/person-day)
       BCF = bioconcentration factor

BCF values are based on U. S. Environmental Protection Agency
publications pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Clean Water Act. FCR
values are average consumption rates for a 70 kg adult for a lifetime of the
population; alternative FCR values may be used when it is considered
necessary to protect localized populations which may be consuming fish at
a higher rate.

(2)    Water consumption and fish tissue consumption:


       WQC = (RfD) x Body Weight / (WCR + (FCR x BCF))


       where: WQC = water quality criterion
       RfD = reference dose
       FCR = fish consumption rate (17.5 gm/person-day)
       BCF = bioconcentration factor
       WCR = water consumption rate (assumed to be 2 liters/day for
       adults)

The equations listed in this subparagraph will be used to develop water
criteria or standards on a case-by-case basis for toxic substances that are
not presently included in the water quality standards. Alternative FCR
values may be used when it is considered necessary to protect localized
populations that may be consuming fish at a higher rate.


                        169
(g)   For carcinogens, the concentrations of toxic substances will not result in
      unacceptable health risk and will be based on a Cancer Potency Factor
      (CPF). An unacceptable health risk for cancer will be considered to be
      more than one additional case of cancer per one million people exposed
      (10-6 risk level). Water quality standards or criteria used to calculate
      water quality-based effluent limitations (and for all other purposes of
      water quality criteria under Section 303(c) of the Clean Water Act) to
      protect human health through the different exposure routes are determined
      as follows:

      (1)    Fish tissue consumption:


             WQC = (Risk) x Body Weight / (CPF x (FCR x BCF))


             where: WQC = water quality criterion
             Risk = risk factor (10)
             CPF = cancer potency factor
             FCR = fish consumption rate (17.5 gm/person-day)
             BCF = bioconcentration factor

      BCF values are based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
      publications pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Clean Water Act. FCR
      values are average consumption rates for a 70 kg adult for a lifetime of the
      population; alternative FCR values may be used when it is considered
      necessary to protect localized populations which may be consuming fish at
      a higher rate.

      (2)    Water consumption (including a correction for fish consumption):


             WQC = Risk x Body Weight / (CPF x (WCR + (FCR x BCF)))


             where: WQC = water quality criterion
             Risk = risk factor (10)
             CPF = cancer potency factor
             FCR = fish consumption rate (17.5 gm/person-day)
             BCF = bioconcentration factor
             WCR = water consumption rate (assumed to be 2 liters/day for
             adults)

      The equations listed in this subparagraph will be used to develop water
      criteria or standards on a case-by-case basis for toxic substances that are

                              170
not presently included in the water quality standards. Alternative FCR
values may be used when it is considered necessary to protect localized
populations that may be consuming fish at a higher rate.




                       171
                                         TABLE 2 Notes

a   The CMC = 1/[(f1/CMC1) + (f2/CMC2)] where f1 and f2 are the fractions of total selenium
    that are treated as selenite and selenate, respectively, and CMC1 and CMC2 are 185.9 µg/l
    and 12.83 µg/l. The value in the table is calculated assuming a worst case scenario in
    which all selenium is present as selenate.
b   Hardness dependent parameter. Criteria are indicated at hardness of 50 mg/l as CaCO3.
    Equations for criteria calculation of hardness dependent parameters can be found in Quality
    Criteria for Water. The equation is applicable for instream hardness ranges from 25 mg/l
    to 400 mg/l. If instream hardness is less than 25 mg/l, then a hardness value of 25 mg/l
    should be used to calculate the criteria. If instream hardness is greater than 400 mg/l, then
    a hardness of 400 mg/l should be used to calculate the criteria.
c   Criteria for pentachlorophenol are based on a pH dependent equation as found in Quality
    Criteria for Water. Values listed are for a pH of 7.0 s.u.
d   Site specific criteria for Mississippi Sound.
e   Parameter subject to water effects ratio equations where:
         CMC = WER * Acute
         CCC = WER * Chronic
f   Ammonia criteria are dependent on pH, temperature, and/or salinity. See Section II.10.C.

g   Expressed as µg free cyanide (as CN)/L.

h   Refers to the inorganic form only.

i   Applies to the sum of  and  isomers.

j   Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) registry numbers, which provide a unique identification
    for each chemical.

k   This criterion applies to total PCBs (e.g., the sum of all congener or all isomer or homolog
    or Aroclor analyses).




                                              172
                                                          TABLE 2
                                             Numeric Criteria for All Waters (µg/l)


                                                         Fresh Water                Salt Water             Human Health
 CAS j               Parameter                    Acute         Chronic      Acute         Chronic     Organisms    Water &
                                                                                                          Only     Organisms
 309002    Aldrin                                  3.0                        1.3                       0.000050    0.000049
                                                     f                f         f                f
7664417    Ammonia
7440382    Arsenic (III), Total Dissolved         340 e           150 e        69                36
7440382    Arsenic, Total Dissolved                                                                       24h        0.078h
7440439    Cadmium, Total Dissolved              1.03 b,e        0.15 b,e      40             8.8         168           5
  57749    Chlordane                               2.4           0.0043       0.09           0.004      0.00081     0.00080
7782505    Chlorine                                19              11          13             7.5
18540299   Chromium (Hex), Total                   16 e           11 e       1100                50      1470         98
           Dissolved
16065831   Chromium (III), Total Dissolved        323 b,e        42 b,e                                 140468         100
 7440508   Copper, Total Dissolved                7.0 b,e        5.0 b,e       4.8            3.1        1000         1300
   57125   Cyanide                                22.0 g         5.2 g        1.0 g          1.0 g        140          140
   50293   4,4 DDT                                  1.1          0.001        0.13           0.001      0.00022     0.00022
   60571   Dieldrin                                0.24          0.056        0.71          0.0019     0.000054    0.000052
 1746016   2,3,7,8 TCDD (Dioxin)                                                                       51 x 10-9   50 x 10 -9
  959988   alpha-Endosulfan                       0.22 i         0.056 i     0.034 i        0.0087 i       89          62j
33213659   beta-Endosulfan                        0.22 i         0.056 i     0.034 i        0.0087 i       89j          62
 1031078   Endosulfan Sulfate                                                                              89j         62j
   72208   Endrin                                 0.086           0.036      0.037          0.0023       0.060       0.059
   76448   Heptachlor                              0.52          0.0038      0.053          0.0036     0.000079    00.00079


                                                                173
                                               Fresh Water            Salt Water           Human Health
 CAS j               Parameter             Acute      Chronic      Acute     Chronic   Organisms    Water &
                                                                                         Only      Organisms
  58899   gamma-BHC (Lindane)              0.95          0.08      0.16                   1.8        0.98
7439921   Lead, Total Dissolved            30 b,e      1.18 b,e    210          8.1                   15
7439976   Mercury (II), Total Dissolved    2.1e         0.012       1.8        0.025
7439976   Mercury                                                                        0.153       0.151
                                               b,e           b,e
7440020   Nickel, Total Dissolved          260          29          75          8.3       4600        610
 108952   Phenol                             300         102       300          58      860000       10000
  87865   Pentachlorophenol                 8.7 c       6.7 c      13 c        7.9 c       3.0        0.27
          Total PCB                         0.02k      0.014k      1.0k        0.03k   0.000064k   0.000064k
7782492   Selenium, Total Dissolved       11.8 a,e      4.6 e      290 e        71 e      4200        170
7440224   Silver, Total Dissolved          0.98 b,f                 1.9                               100
8001352   Toxaphene                         0.73       0.0002      0.21       0.0002    0.00028     0.00028
7440666   Zinc, Total Dissolved             65 b,e      65 b,e      90          81       26,000      7,400




                                                      174
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-9, 49-2-1, et seq., and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 2.3 Specific Water Quality Criteria:

A.      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY CLASSIFICATION:

Waters in this classification are a source of raw water supply for drinking and food processing
purposes. The water treatment process shall be approved by the Mississippi State Department of
Health. The raw water supply shall be such that after the approved treatment process, it will satisfy
the regulations established pursuant to Section 1412 of the Public Health Service Act as amended
by the Safe Drinking Water Act (Pub. L. 93-523). Information regarding surface water intakes for
Public Water Supply is provided in Table 3.


     Table 3. Mississippi Surface Water Intakes for Public Water Supply
 Water Body                         Name                        Location              Status
 Bonita Reservoir                   City of Meridian            Lauderdale County Inactive
 Long Creek Reservoir               City of Meridian            Lauderdale County Inactive
                                    Columbus Light and
 Luxapallila Creek                                              Lowndes County        Inactive
                                    Water
                                    Pat Harrison Waterway
 Okatibbee Reservoir                                            Lauderdale County Inactive
                                    District
                                    Jackson County Port
 Pascagoula River                                               Jackson County        Active
                                    Authority
 Pickwick Lake                      Short Coleman Park          Tishomingo
                                                                                      Inactive
 (Yellow Creek Embayment)           Water Association           County
 Ross Barnett Reservoir
                                    City of Jackson             Hinds County          Active
 Pearl River
                                    City of Corinth Gas and     Tishomingo
 Tenn-Tom Waterway                                                                    Active
                                    Water Department            County
                                    NE MS Regional Water
 Tombigbee River                                                Itawamba County       Active
                                    Supply District


Waters that meet the Public Water Supply criteria shall also be suitable for secondary contact
recreation. Secondary contact recreation is defined as incidental contact with the water during
activities such as wading, fishing, and boating, that are not likely to result in full body immersion.
In considering the acceptability of a proposed site for disposal of bacteria latent wastewater in or
near waters with the public water supply classification, the Permit Board shall consider the relative
proximity of the discharge to water supply intakes.




                                                 175
     (1)    Bacteria: Culturable e.coli should not exceed a geometric mean of 126 per 100 ml
     over a 30-day period, nor should the samples examined during a 30-day period exceed 410
     per 100 ml more than 10% of the time. There should be a minimum of 5 samples taken over
     a 30-day period with no less than 12 hours between individual samples.



     (2)    Chlorides (Cl): There shall be no substances added which will cause the chloride
            content to exceed 230 mg/l in freshwater streams.

     (3)    Specific Conductance: There shall be no substances added to increase the
            conductivity above 500 micromhos/cm for freshwater streams.

     (4)    Dissolved Solids: There shall be no substances added to the waters that will cause
            the dissolved solids to exceed 500 mg/l for freshwater streams.

     (5)    Threshold Odor: There shall be no substances added which will cause the
            threshold odor number to exceed 24 (at 60C) as a daily average.

     (6)    Radioactive Substances: There shall be no radioactive substances added to the
            waters which will cause the gross beta activity (in the known absence of
            Strontium-90 and alpha emitters) to exceed 1000 picocuries per liter at any time.

     (7)    Specific Chemical Constituents: In addition to the provisions in Section II.4. and
            10., the following concentrations (dissolved) shall not be exceeded at any time:

                    Constituent                            Concentration (mg/l)
                    Barium                                       2.0
                    Fluoride                                     2.0
                    Lead                                         0.015
                    Nitrate (as N)                              10.0

B.   SHELLFISH HARVESTING CLASSIFICATION

     Waters in this classification are for propagation and harvesting shellfish for sale or use as a
     food product. These waters shall meet the requirements set forth in the latest edition of the
     National Shellfish Sanitation Program, Manual of Operations, Part I, Sanitation of
     Shellfish Growing Areas, as published by the U. S. Public Health Service. Waters that meet
     the Shellfish Harvesting Area Criteria shall also be suitable for recreational purposes. In
     considering the acceptability of a proposed site for disposal of bacteria latent wastewater in
     or near waters with this classification, the Permit Board shall consider the relative
     proximity of the discharge to shellfish harvesting beds.

     (1)    Bacteria: The median fecal coliform MPN (Most Probable Number) of the water
            shall not exceed 14 per 100 ml, and not more than 10% of the samples shall
            ordinarily exceed an MPN of 43 per 100 ml in those portions or areas most
            probably exposed to fecal contamination during most unfavorable hydrographic
            and pollutive conditions.
                                              176
C.   RECREATION CLASSIFICATION:

     Waters in this classification are to be suitable for recreational purposes, including such
     water contact activities as swimming and water skiing. In considering the acceptability of
     a proposed site for disposal of bacteria latent wastewater in or near waters with this
     classification, the Permit Board shall consider the relative proximity of the discharge to
     areas of actual water contact activity.

     (1)    Bacteria: Culturable e.coli should not exceed a geometric mean of 126 per 100 ml,
            nor should the samples examined during a 30-day period exceed 410 per 100 ml
            more than 10% of the time. There should be a minimum of 5 samples taken over a
            30-day period with no less than 12 hours between individual samples.

            For both marine and estuarine coastal recreational waters, Enterococci should not
            exceed a 90-day geometric mean of 35 per 100 ml, nor should the samples examined
            during a 90-day period exceed 130 per 100 ml more than 10% of the time. Coastal
            recreational waters do not include inland waters upstream of the mouth of a river or
            a stream having a natural connection to the open sea.

     (2)    Specific Conductance: There shall be no substances added to increase the
            conductivity above 1000 micromhos/cm for freshwater streams.

     (3)    Dissolved Solids: There shall be no substances added to the water to cause the
            dissolved solids to exceed 750 mg/l as a monthly average value, nor exceed 1500
            mg/l at any time for freshwater streams.

D.   FISH AND WILDLIFE CLASSIFICATION:

     Waters in this classification are intended for fishing and for propagation of fish, aquatic life,
     and wildlife. Waters that meet the Fish and Wildlife Criteria shall also be suitable for
     secondary contact recreation. Secondary contact recreation is defined as incidental contact
     with the water during activities such as wading, fishing, and boating, that are not likely to
     result in full body immersion.

     (1)    Bacteria: Culturable e.coli should not exceed a geometric mean of 126 per 100 ml
            over a 30-day period, nor should the samples examined during a 30-day period
            exceed 410 per 100 ml more than 10% of the time. There should be a minimum of 5
            samples taken over a 30-day period with no less than 12 hours between individual
            samples.


     (2)    Specific Conductance: There shall be no substances added to increase the
            conductivity above 1000 micromhos/cm for freshwater streams.

     (3)    Dissolved Solids: There shall be no substances added to the waters to cause the
            dissolved solids to exceed 750 mg/l as a monthly average value, nor exceed 1500
            mg/l at any time for freshwater streams.
                                               177
E.   EPHEMERAL STREAM CLASSIFICATION:

     Waters in this classification do not support a fisheries resource and are not usable for
     human consumption or aquatic life. Ephemeral streams normally are natural watercourses,
     including natural watercourses that have been modified by channelization or a manmade
     drainage ditch, that without the contribution of point source discharges, flow only in direct
     response to precipitation or irrigation return-water discharge in the immediate vicinity and
     whose channels are normally above the groundwater table. Physical conditions related to
     the natural features of the water body, such as the lack of a proper substrate, cover, flow,
     depth, pools, riffles, and the like, unrelated to water quality, preclude attainment of aquatic
     life protection uses. These streams may contain a transient population of aquatic life during
     the portion of the year when there is suitable habitat for fish survival. Normally, aquatic
     habitat in these streams is not adequate to support a reproductive cycle for fish and other
     aquatic life. Wetlands are excluded from this classification.

     Waters in this classification shall be protective of wildlife and humans that may come in
     contact with the waters. Waters contained in ephemeral streams shall also allow
     maintenance of the standards applicable to all downstream waters.


     (1)    Provisions A, B, C, and E of Rule 2.2 (Minimum Conditions Applicable to All
            Waters: Narrative Standards) are applicable except as they relate to fish and other
            aquatic life. All aspects of provisions 2.2.A.4) and 2.2.F. concerning toxicity will
            apply to ephemeral streams, except for domestic or compatible domestic wastewater
            discharges which will be required to meet toxicity requirements in downstream
            waters not classified as ephemeral. Alternative methods may be utilized to
            determine the potential toxic effect of ammonia. Acutely toxic conditions are
            prohibited under any circumstances in waters in this classification.

     (2)    Dissolved Oxygen: The dissolved oxygen shall be maintained at an appropriate level
            to avoid nuisance conditions.

     (3)    Bacteria: The Permit Board may assign bacterial criteria where the probability of a
            public health hazard or other circumstances so warrant.

     (4)    Fisheries resource is defined as any water body which has a viable gamefish
            population as documented by the Mississippi Department of Wildlife Fisheries and
            Parks or has sufficient flow or physical characteristics to support the fishing use
            during times other than periods of flow after precipitation events or irrigation return
            water discharge.

     (5)    "Not usable for human consumption or aquatic life" means that sufficient flow or
            physical characteristics are not available to support these uses.

     (6)    "Flow only in response to precipitation or irrigation return water" means that
            without the influence of point source discharges the stream will be dry unless there
            has been recent rainfall or a discharge of irrigation return water.
                                              178
       (7)    "Protective of wildlife and humans that may come in contact with the waters" means
              that toxic pollutants shall not be discharged in concentrations that will endanger
              wildlife or humans.

       (8)    "Nuisance conditions" means objectionable odors or aesthetic conditions that may
              generate complaints from the public.

Recommendations for assignment of the Ephemeral Stream classification shall be made to the
Commission on Environmental Quality by the Permit Board after appropriate demonstration of
physical and hydrological data. The Ephemeral Stream classification shall not be assigned where
environmental circumstances are such that a nuisance or hazardous condition would result or public
health is likely to be threatened. Alternate discharge points shall be investigated before the
Ephemeral Stream classification is considered.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-9, 49-2-1, et seq., and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                               179
 Rule 2.4 Water Body Classifications in State Waters:

 All of the State waters not specifically listed below shall be classified as Fish and Wildlife. State
 waters carrying other classifications are:

                                      Coastal Streams Basin
            Waters                                Location                           Classification
Back Bay of Biloxi            From Popps Ferry Bridge to Biloxi Bay                    Recreation
Bangs Lake                    From headwaters to the Mississippi Sound            Shellfish Harvesting
Bayou Cumbest                 From headwaters to the Mississippi Sound            Shellfish Harvesting
Big Lake                      From Bernard Bayou to the Popps Ferry Bridge             Recreation
                              From Headwaters (US Hwy 90 Bridge) to the           Shellfish Harvesting
Biloxi Bay
                              Mississippi Sound                                        Recreation
                                                                                  Shellfish Harvesting
Buoy Beef                     Mississippi Sound
                                                                                       Recreation
Davis Bayou                   From headwaters to the Biloxi Bay                   Shellfish Harvesting
Graveline Bay                 From headwaters to Graveline Bayou                  Shellfish Harvesting
Graveline Bayou               From Graveline Bay to the Mississippi Sound         Shellfish Harvesting
                              From confluence of Bacon Bayou and
Jourdan River                                                                          Recreation
                              Catahoula Creek to the St. Louis Bay
Kittiwake Reed                                                                    Shellfish Harvesting
                              Mississippi Sound
(Long Beach Reef)                                                                      Recreation
Mallini Bayou                 From St. Louis Bay to St. Louis Bay                 Shellfish Harvesting
Mississippi Sound             Contiguous to Mississippi Coastline                      Recreation
Old Fort Bayou                From Bayou Talla to Biloxi Bay                           Recreation
Pass Christian Reef                                                               Shellfish Harvesting
                              Mississippi Sound
(off Henderson Point)                                                                  Recreation
                                                                                  Shellfish Harvesting
Pass Marianne Reef            Mississippi Sound
                                                                                       Recreation
                                                                                  Shellfish Harvesting
Pelican Key Reef              Mississippi Sound
                                                                                       Recreation
                                                                                  Shellfish Harvesting
Point Clear Shell Plant       Mississippi Sound
                                                                                       Recreation
St. Joe Reef                                                                      Shellfish Harvesting
                              Mississippi Sound
(St. Joseph’s Point Reef)                                                              Recreation
                                                                                  Shellfish Harvesting
St. Louis Bay                 Harrison and Hancock Counties
                                                                                       Recreation




                                                   180
                               Coastal Streams Basin
           Waters                           Location                     Classification
                                                                       Shellfish Harvesting
St. Stanislaus Reef     Mississippi Sound
                                                                            Recreation
Tchoutacabouffa River   From headwaters to the Back Bay of Biloxi          Recreation
                                                                       Shellfish Harvesting
Telegraph Reef          Mississippi Sound
                                                                            Recreation
                        From North Gulfport Eighth Grade to Bernard
Turkey Creek                                                               Recreation
                        Bayou

Tuxachanie Creek        From headwaters to the Tchoutacabouffa River       Recreation
                                                                       Shellfish Harvesting
Waveland Reef           Mississippi Sound
                                                                            Recreation
Wolf River              From MS Hwy 26 to the St. Louis Bay                Recreation




                                             181
182
                     North Independent Streams Basin
            Waters                           Location   Classification
Horn Lake                    DeSoto County               Recreation




                                    183
184
                                                    Pascagoula River Basin
               Waters                                                    Location                                           Classification
Archusa Reservoir                           Clarke County                                                                     Recreation
                                            From headwaters in Perry and Forrest Counties to
Beaverdam Creek                                                                                                               Recreation
                                            Black Creek
Black Creek                                 From Hwy 11 to the Pascagoula River                                               Recreation
Bonita Reservoir                            Lauderdale County                                                          Public Water Supply
Bowie Creek                                 From MS Hwy 589 to the Bowie River                                                Recreation
Bowie River                                 From Bowie Creek to Interstate 59                                                 Recreation
Chickasawhay River                          From Stonewall to MS Hwy 84                                                       Recreation
Chunky River                                From US Hwy 80 to the Chickasawhay River                                          Recreation
Clarke State Park (Ivy Lake)                Clarke County                                                                     Recreation
Dry Creek Lake Site #3                      Covington County                                                                  Recreation
Escatawpa River                             From River Mile 10 to the Pascagoula River                                   Fish and Wildlife14
Flint Creek Reservoir                       Stone County                                                                      Recreation
Lake Bogue Homa                             Jones County                                                                      Recreation
Lake Claude Bennett                         Jasper County                                                                     Recreation
Lake Geiger                                 Forrest County                                                                    Recreation
Lake Marathon                               Smith County                                                                      Recreation
Lake Mike Conner                            Covington County                                                                  Recreation
Lake Perry                                  Perry County                                                                      Recreation
Lake Ross Barnett                           Smith County                                                                      Recreation
Lake Shongela                               Smith County                                                                      Recreation
Lakeland Park Lake                          Wayne County                                                                      Recreation
Leaf River                                  From Hwy 42 to the Chickasawhay River                                             Recreation
Long Creek Reservoir                        Lauderdale County                                                          Public Water Supply
                                                                                                                       Public Water Supply
Okatibbee Reservoir                         Lauderdale County
                                                                                                                            Recreation
Okatoma Creek                               From Seminary (MS Hwy 590) to the Bowie River                                     Recreation
                                            From 5 miles north of Cumbest Bluff to
Pascagoula River                                                                                                       Public Water Supply
                                            Cumbest Bluff
                                            From 6 miles north of MS Hwy 26 (George
Pascagoula River                                                                                                              Recreation
                                            County) to Smear Bayou (Jackson County)
Red Creek                                   From US Hwy 49 to Big Black Creek                                                 Recreation
Turkey Creek Reservoir                      Greene County                                                                     Recreation


14
   The following dissolved oxygen standard is applicable for this segment: dissolved oxygen concentrations shall not be less than a daily average of
3.7 mg/l from May 1 through October 31. Additional information regarding the derivation and implementation of this criterion can be found in the
report titled A Site-Specific Dissolved Oxygen Criterion for the Escatawpa River: Criteria Derivation and Implementation.
                                                                       185
186
                                        Pearl River Basin
          Waters                                 Location                       Classification
Ross Barnett Reservoir        Madison and Rankin Counties                         Recreation

Ross Barnett Reservoir        From River Bend to the Reservoir Dam            Public Water Supply

Bogue Chitto River            From MS Hwy 570 to the MS/LA State Line             Recreation
Lake Columbia                 Marion County                                       Recreation
Lake Dixie Springs            Pike County                                         Recreation
Magees Creek                  From US Hwy 98 to the Bogue Chitto River            Recreation
                              From Barnett Reservoir to the City of Jackson
Pearl River                                                                   Public Water Supply
                              Water Intake
Pearl River (including Ross   From Hwy 16 near Edinburg to the Mississippi
                                                                                  Recreation
Barnett Reservoir)            Sound
Strong River                  From US Hwy 49 to the Pearl River                   Recreation
Shadow Lake
                              Scott County                                        Recreation
(Roosevelt State Park)
Legion Lake                   Simpson County                                      Recreation
                              From Lake POTW ( MS0025194) to Warrior
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                            Ephemeral
                              Branch




                                                 187
188
                              South Independent Streams Basin
            Waters                                  Location                Classification
Bayou Pierre                     From headwaters to the Mississippi River    Recreation
Clear Springs Lake               Franklin County                             Recreation
East Fork Amite River            From MS Hwy 584 to the MS/LA State Line     Recreation
Homochitto River                 From US Hwy 84 to US Hwy 98                 Recreation
Little Bayou Pierre              From headwaters to Bayou Pierre             Recreation
Percy Quinn State Park Lake      Pike County                                 Recreation
West Fork Amite River            From MS Hwy 24 to the MS/LA State Line      Recreation




                                                   189
Tennessee River Basin
         190
         Waters                                 Location                     Classification

Bear Creek                 From MS/AL State Line to the MS/AL State Line       Recreation

Pickwick Lake (including                                                   Public Water Supply
                           Tishomingo County
Yellow Creek Embayment)                                                         Recreation
                                                                           Public Water Supply
Tennessee River            From MS/AL State Line to the MS/TN State Line
                                                                                Recreation
                                                                           Public Water Supply
Tenn-Tom Waterway          From Pickwick Lake to Little Yellow Creek
                                                                                Recreation




                                               191
192
                                 Tombigbee River Basin
             Waters                                Location                   Classification
Aberdeen Lake                    From Mile 355.5 to Mile 364.3
                                                                                Recreation
(Tenn-Tom Waterway)              (Normal Pool Elevation 190.0)
Bay Springs Lake                 From Mile 410.0 to Mile 419.0
                                                                                Recreation
(Tenn-Tom Waterway)              (Normal Pool Elevation 414.0)
Canal Section Pool “C”           From Mile 389.0 to Mile 396.4
                                                                                Recreation
(Tenn-Tom Waterway)              (Normal Pool Elevation 270.0)
Chiwapa Reservoir                Pontotoc County                                Recreation
Choctaw Lake                     Choctaw County                                 Recreation
Columbus Lake                    From Mile 332.9 to Mile 355.5
                                                                                Recreation
(Tenn-Tom Waterway)              (Normal Pool Elevation 163.0)
Davis Lake                       Chickasaw County                               Recreation
                                 From Natchez Trace Parkway to the
Donivan Creek                                                               Public Water Supply
                                 Tombigbee River
Lake Lamar                       Lee County                                     Recreation
Lake Lowndes                     Lowndes County                                 Recreation
Lake Monroe                      Monroe County                                  Recreation
Lake Tom Bailey                  Lauderdale County                              Recreation
                                                                            Public Water Supply
Luxapallila Creek                From the MS/AL State Line to Hwy 50
                                                                                 Recreation
Oktibbeha County Lake            Oktibbeha County                               Recreation
                                 From Montgomery Lock Dam to Hwy 25
Tenn-Tom Waterway                                                           Public Water Supply
                                 near Fulton
                                 From Natchez Trace Parkway to the
Twentymile Creek                                                            Public Water Supply
                                 Tombigbee River
Tombigbee River                  From Boat Ramp Road to Hwy 78              Public Water Supply
Tombigbee State Park Reservoir   Lee County                                     Recreation
                                 From the MS/AL State Line to Luxapallila
Yellow Creek                                                                Public Water Supply
                                 Creek




                                              193
194
                                   Yazoo River Basin
            Waters                                  Location                      Classification
Arkabutla Reservoir         DeSoto and Tate Counties                               Recreation
                            From Delta City Utility District (MS0038164) to the
Canal #12                                                                          Ephemeral
                            Big Sunflower River
Chewalla Reservoir          Marshall County                                        Recreation
Drainage Ditch #3           From Rosedale POTW (MS0020630) to Lane Bayou           Ephemeral
Enid Reservoir              Panola, Lafayette, and Yalobusha Counties              Recreation
Grenada Reservoir           Grenada County                                         Recreation
Lake Dumas                  Tippah County                                          Recreation
Lake Washington             Washington County                                      Recreation
Little Tallahatchie River   From Sardis Reservoir to US Hwy 51                     Recreation
Moon Lake                   Coahoma County                                         Recreation
Sardis Reservoir            Panola and Lafayette Counties                          Recreation
Straight Bayou              From Louise POTW (MS0044512) to Unnamed
                                                                                   Ephemeral
Drainage Main Ditch “A”     Tributary of Silver Creek
Tillatoba Lake              Yalobusha County                                       Recreation
                            From Anguilla POTW (MS0020541) to the Big
Unnamed Drainage Canal                                                             Ephemeral
                            Sunflower River
Unnamed Drainage Ditch      From Arcola POTW (MS0037311) to Black Bayou            Ephemeral
Unnamed Drainage Ditch      From Beulah POTW (MS0042285) to Leban Bayou            Ephemeral
                            From Crenshaw POTW (MS0026930) to David
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                             Ephemeral
                            Bayou
Unnamed Drainage Ditch      From Farm Fresh Catfish POTW (MS0039535) to
                                                                                   Ephemeral
(Hollandale)                Black Bayou
Unnamed Drainage Ditch      From Farrell to POTW (MS0045187) Overcup Slough        Ephemeral
Unnamed Drainage Ditch      From Lambert POTW (MS0020231) to Muddy Bayou           Ephemeral




                                              195
                              Yazoo River Basin Continued
            Waters                                   Location                   Classification
                                  From Leland POTW (MS0020761)to Black
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Bayou
                                  From Lurand Utility District (MS0045080)to
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  the Big Sunflower River
                                  From Rolling Fork POTW (East Lagoon)
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  (MS0025585) to the Little Sunflower River
                                  From Rolling Fork POTW (West Lagoon)
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  (MS0025593) to Indian Bayou
                                  From Ruleville POTW (MS0024945) to the
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Quiver River
                                  From Shaw POTW (MS0024953) to Porter
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Bayou
                                  From Shelby POTW (MS0025089) to Mound
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Bayou
                                  From Simmons Farm Raised Catfish (Yazoo
Unnamed Drainage Ditch            County) (MS0039403) to Unnamed Tributary of    Ephemeral
                                  Lake George
                                  From Sledge POTW (MS0021016) to David
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Bayou
                                  From Tunica POTW (MS0042323) Unnamed
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  Tributary of White Oak Bayou
                                  From Winstonville POTW (MS0026450 to the
Unnamed Drainage Ditch                                                           Ephemeral
                                  ephemeral ditch west of Winstonville
Wall Doxey State Park Reservoir
                                  Marshall County                                Recreation
(Spring Lake)




                                             196
197
Source Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-9, 49-17-17, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


 Part 6, Chapter 3: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Regulations for the
 Certification of Municipal and Domestic Wastewater Facility Operators
 (Amended August 24, 2017)

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


 Rule 3.1 General

 Rule 3.2 Definitions

 Rule 3.3 Classification of Wastewater Facilities

 Rule 3.4 Certification Requirements

 Rule 3.5 Operator Responsibilities

 Rule 3.6 Renewal of Certificates

 Rule 3.7 Revocation or Suspension of Certificates

 Rule 3.8 Enforcement and Appeals


 Rule 3.1 General

 A.     These regulations are promulgated under the authority provided by Miss. Code Ann.
        Section 21-27-207.

 B.     Miss. Code Ann. Section 21-27-211 requi re s t h a t begi nni ng on Jul y 1, 1 9 8 7,
        al l municipal and domestic wastewater treatment plants be operated by persons who are
        certified as qualified to operate such facilities.

 C.     Certificates shall be valid for three (3) years, unless revoked or invalidated for cause.

 D.     In the event of temporary loss of an operator, notice shall be immediately given to the
        Department and the continued operation of such facility without a certified operator may
        proceed on an interim basis for a period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days,
        except for good cause shown upon petition to the Department.




                                                 198
E.     These regulations do not pertain to a wastewater treatment facility treating wastewater
       generated solely by an industry and owned and operated by said industry.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 3.2 Definitions.

A.     "Association" means the Mississippi Water and Pollution Control Operator's Association.

B.     "Certificate," the certification of competency issued by the Department stating that the
       operator has met the requirements for the specified operator classification.

C.     "Commission," the Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality.

D.     "Community water system" means any water system serving piped water for human
       consumption to fifteen (15) or more individual service connections used year-round by
       consumers or regularly serving twenty-five (25) or more individual consumers year-
       round, including, but not by way of limitation, any collection, pretreatment, treatment,
       storage and/or distribution facilities or equipment used primarily as part of, or in
       connection with, such system, regardless of whether or not such components are under
       the ownership or control of the operator of such system.

E.     "Department," the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.

F.     "Experience," means direct observation of and/or participation in the operation and
       maintenance of a wastewater facility, including, but not limited to, process control
       activities, facility maintenance, record keeping and NPDES monitoring activities.
       Experience requirements must be in accordance with the facility minimum visitation
       schedule as outlined in Section 5, Operator Responsibilities.

G.     "Operator," the person who directly supervises and is personally responsible for the daily
       operation and maintenance of a wastewater facility, community water system or
       commercial nonhazardous solid waste management landfill.

H.     "Person," the state or other agency or institution thereof, any municipality, political
       subdivision, public or private corporation, individual, partnership, association or other
       entity, and includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality,
       political subdivision, or public or private corporation, or the United States or any officer
       or employee thereof.

I.     "Pollution," the contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical or biological
       properties of any waters of the state, including change in temperature, taste, color,
       turbidity, or odor of the waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive
       or other substance or heat into any waters of the State.

J.     "Professional Reference," a certified operator (other than a relative or a subordinate) who
       is familiar with the applicant's experience working in a wastewater facility.

                                               199
K.        "Wastewater Facilities," the pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains,
          treatment plants, lagoons or any other structure, device, appurtenance or facility, whether
          operated individually or in any combination, used for collecting, treating and/or disposing
          of municipal or domestic wastewater, by either surface or underground methods, which is
          required to have a permit under the provisions of Miss. Code Ann. Section 49-17-29.

L.        "Waters of the state," the waters within the jurisdiction of this state, including all streams,
          lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs,
          irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
          surface and underground, natural or artificial, situated wholly or partly within or
          bordering upon the state, and such coastal waters as are within the jurisdiction of the
          state, except lakes, ponds or other surface waters which are wholly landlocked and
          privately owned.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 3.3 Classification of Wastewater Facilities.

     A.         Wastewater facilities shall be classified in accordance with criteria outlined below.
                The facility operator must be certified at a level equivalent to or higher than the facility
                classification.

          CLASS            FACILITY DESIGN                  CAPACITY

          I-C              Collection only (voluntary)      up to 1,000,000 GPD (1.0 MGD)

          II-C             Collection only (voluntary)      greater than 1,000,000 GPD (1.0 MGD)

          I                Waste Stabilization Lagoon All
                           Septic Tank-Sand
                           Filter

          II               Aerated Lagoon                   All
                           Trickling Filter                 less than 300,000 GPD (0.3 MGD)
                           Activated                        less than 100,000 GPD (0.1 MGD)
                           Sludge
          III              Trickling Filter                 300,000 to 3,000,000 GPD (0.3 to 3.0
                           Activated Sludge                 MGD)
                                                            100,000 to 2,000,000 GPD (0.1 to 2.0
          IV               Trickling Filter                 greater
                                                            MGD) than 3,000,000 GPD (3.0 MGD)
                           Activated Sludge                 greater than 2,000,000 GPD (2.0 MGD)


 B.       Special cases which do not fall within the guidelines shall be considered on an individual
          basis and classified by the Department.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 3.4 Certification Requirements.
                                                      200
A.   Operator Qualifications for Certification

     (1)    Class IV

            (a)     The applicant must have at least a bachelor's degree in engineering,
                    biological sciences, mathematics, chemistry, or physics from an
                    accredited college or university, at least one (1) year of experience in a
                    Class IV wastewater facility, pass the required written examination and
                    submit two (2) professional references, or

            (b)     The applicant must be a graduate of an accredited high school, or
                    equivalent (GED) have at least six (6) years experience in a Class IV
                    or Class III wastewater facility, of which one (1) year must be in a
                    Class IV plant, pass the required examination and submit two (2)
                    professional references.

            (c)    No individual shall be allowed to sit for a Class III or Class IV
                   examination without proof of having taken and passed a Class II
                   examination.

     (2)    Class III

            (a)     The applicant must have graduated from an accredited high school, or
                    equivalent (GED), have at least three (3) years of experience in a Class
                    IV, III, or II wastewater facility, of which one (1) year must be in a Class
                    IV
                    or Class III plant, pass the required written examination and submit two
                    (2) professional references, or

            (b)     The applicant must have a minimum of six (6) years experience in a
                    Class IV, III, or II wastewater facility, of which one (1) year must be in
                    a Class IV or Class III plant, pass the required written examination and
                    submit
                    two (2) professional references.

            (c)    No individual shall be allowed to sit for a Class III or Class IV
                   examination without proof of having taken and passed a Class II
                   examination.

     (3)    Class II

            (a)     The applicant must have graduated from an accredited high school, or
                    equivalent (GED), have at least one (1) year of experience in a Class
                    IV, III, or II wastewater facility, pass the required written examination
                    and submit one (1) professional reference, or



                                            201
        (b)       The applicant must have a minimum of three (3) years experience in a
                  wastewater facility, of which one (1) year must be in a Class IV, III, or
                  II plant, pass the required written examination and submit one (1)
                  professional reference.

 (4)    Class I

                  The applicant must have at least one (1) year of experience in a
                  wastewater facility, pass the required written examination and submit
                  one (1) professional reference.

(5)    Class I-C

                  The applicant must have at least one (1) year experience working in a
                  collection system, pass the required written examination and submit
                  one (1) professional reference.

 (6)    Class II-C

        (a)       The applicant must have graduated from an accredited high school, or
                  equivalent (GED), have at least two (2) years experience working in a
                  collection system, of which one (1) year must be in a Class II-C
                  system, pass the required written examination and submit two (2)
                  professional references, or

        (b)       The applicant must have four (4) years experience working in a
                  collection system, one (1) year of which must be in a Class II-C system,
                  pass the required written examination and submit two (2) professional
                  references.

 (7)    Operators who have completed college courses, short courses, correspondence
        courses, etc., may be given credit for any deficiency in their experience and/or
        education, except that such courses cannot be substituted for one (1) year of
        wastewater facility experience. The Department shall award credit for
        experience using the following criteria:

        (a)       Eight (8) weeks of classroom instruction in the operation and
                  maintenance of wastewater treatment facilities will be equivalent to one
                  (1) year experience.

        (b)       Four (4) weeks of Department or Association sponsored classroom
                  instruction in the operation and maintenance of wastewater
                  treatment facilities will be equivalent to one (1) year experience.

        (c)       Each year of college completed in engineering, biological sciences,
                  mathematics, chemistry, or physics will be considered the equivalent


                                          202
                    of two (2) years experience. Thirty (30) semester hours are equal to
                    one (1) year of college.

             (d)    Special education, training, or experience which does not fall within
                    these guidelines shall be considered in individual cases by the
                    Department.

B.   General Qualifications for Certification

             (a)   One year of the required experience must be earned under the supervision of
                   a certified operator who holds a valid non-restricted certificate issued by the
                   Department at a class equivalent to or higher than that for which
                   certification is being requested. The year of supervision must be in a system
                   of a class equivalent to or higher than the class certificate being requested.
                   The supervising operator must sign a certification statement verifying the
                   successful completion of the required period of supervision.

             (b)   To be eligible to serve as the certified operator for a wastewater facility, an
                   operator’s principal residence must be no more than fifty (50) miles from
                   the system. Under special circumstances, an operator may apply to the
                   Department in writing for a waiver of the 50 mile requirement.

C.   Professional References

     References must be obtained from Certified operator(s) of the same Classification as
     that which is being requested or higher, who are familiar with the applicant's
     experience working in a wastewater facility. The references must be provided on
     professional reference forms provided by the Department. These forms must be
     submitted with the certification application.

D.   Application

     (1)    An operator desiring to be certified shall file an application with the
            Department on a form provided by the Department.

     (2)     The Department shall review applications and supporting documents and
             experience of the applicant, determine the eligibility of the applicant, and
             issue certificates when the applicant meets the requirements of the
             Municipal and Domestic Water and Wastewater System and Nonhazardous
             Solid Waste Management Facilities Operator's Certification
             Act of 1992 and these regulations.

     (3)     The Commission may deny an application if the Commission determines
             that the applicant has not complied with all of the provisions of these
             regulations and with all other applicable Federal, State and local statutes and
             regulations or has submitted inaccurate or false information in the
             application, or has submitted incomplete application forms after being

                                                203
            notified in writing by the Department that the application is incomplete. The
            Commission shall make determinations regarding issuance or denial of the
            certificate based upon the information contained in the application, the
            applicant's actions during any prior term of certification, and any other
            pertinent information that is available to the Commission.

E.   Examinations

     (1)    The Department shall prepare written examinations to be used in
            determining knowledge, ability, and judgment of the operators.

     (2)    Examinations shall be held at places and times set by the Department.

     (3)    A fee, to be set by the Commission, will be charged for the examination.

     (4)    An individual who passes an examination must be certified within three
            years following the date the examination was taken. Otherwise, the
            individual will be required to take another written examination in order to be
            certified.

     (5)    An individual who fails to pass an examination may repeat the examination
            at the next regularly scheduled examination.

     (6)    Examination papers will not be returned to the operator.

     (7)    An individual who fails to pass an examination may review his paper by
            submitting a written request to the Department within thirty (30) days
            following notification of the examination grade.

     (8)    To be eligible to take a written examination, an individual must demonstrate
            to the Department that he/she has attended a Department sponsored
            wastewater operator short course for the appropriate classification or other
            equivalent Department approved course at DEQ’s discretion within the
            previous 12 months.

F.   Reciprocity

     (1)   Certificates may be issued, without examination, in a comparable classification to
           an operator who holds a valid certification by exam from any state, territory, or
           possession of the United States that has entered into a reciprocity agreement with
           the Department.

     (2)   Applicants for certification through reciprocity must meet the education and
           experience requirements for the class certificate requested as previously
           described.

G.   Certification Fees

                                           204
       (1)    A fee to be set by the Commission shall be charged for certification
              and renewal in any classification and must accompany the application
              for certification or renewal.

       (2)    Fees from applicants who are not certified will be returned.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.5 Operator Responsibilities.

A.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities must personally visit said
       facilities at a sufficient frequency and duration to perform such tasks as may be
       required by the permit and to ensure proper operation and management of said
       wastewater facilities. Unless otherwise stated in the facility's permit or an order of the
       Commission, certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities shall visit the
       facilities, as a minimum, according to the following schedule:

              Class I Facility               One (1) day per week
              Class II Facility              Two (2) days per
              week Class III Facility        Three (3) days per
              week Class IV Facility         Five (5) days per
              week

B.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities shall be thoroughly familiar with
       all monitoring and reporting requirements mandated by the facility's permit and shall
       ensure said facility complies with these requirements.

C.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities must maintain
       written documentation of each facility visit. Documentation of facility visits shall be
       made available to the Department upon request.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.6 Renewal of Certificates

A.     Subject to the provisions of Rule 3.5.B., certificates may be renewed without
       examination, however, in order to be eligible for certificate renewal, a
       certification renewal application should be filed prior to the expiration of the
       existing certificate. The application must be accompanied by the renewal fee and
       also proof of completing the continuing education requirements found in the
       below paragraph C. Additionally, an operator, if practicing, must have
       demonstrated competency. Certified operators who file renewal applications
       more than sixty (60) days after the expiration of their certificate will be required
       to pass the written exam in order to be eligible for certification.


                                              205
B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 3.5.A., any wastewater facility operator
     who holds a restricted certificate (i.e., valid only for a particular facility and/or
     class of facilities) may obtain a renewal certificate with identical restrictions
     provided that all conditions of paragraph A. are satisfied.

C.   Continuing education

     (1)     Operators must receive thirty six (36) hours of related continuing
             education during the three (3) year period for which their certification
             is valid. A minimum of eighteen (18) of this thirty six (36) hours must
             be satisfied by attending Department sponsored training.

     (2)     Certified collection system operators must receive eighteen (18) hours of
             related continuing education during the three (3) year period that their
             certification is valid.

     (3)     Operators who have been certified for three (3) consecutive three (3) year
             periods, must receive twenty four (24) hours of continuing education during the
             fourth and subsequent three (3) year periods for which their certificate is valid.
             A minimum of twelve (12) hours must be satisfied by attending Department
             sponsored training, or Association sponsored Short Courses.

     (4)     Exceptions to the twenty four (24) hours of Department sponsored training
             requirement may be considered by the Department in individual cases, such
             as operators who possess valid Mississippi Certificates and are employed and
             reside outside the state of Mississippi, provided they submit proof of
             attendance of equivalent training.

     (5)     Continuing education credit will be given as follows:

             (a)     Attending one (1) day of Department sponsored training will be
                     equivalent to six (6) hours of continuing education.

             (b)     Attending one (1) Association sponsored week long wastewater
                     treatment short course will be equivalent to thirty two (32) hours of
                     Department sponsored continuing education.

             (c)     Association sponsored wastewater continuing education short courses
                     will be evaluated, upon request, based on technical content, and
                     Department sponsored continuing education credit will be awarded for
                     actual hours attended.
             (d)     Certified Operators who serve as instructors/presenters at
                     Association sponsored training sessions shall receive two (2) hours
                     of continuing education for each hour of actual presentation time.

             (e)     Attending one (1) Association monthly District meeting will be
                     equivalent of to one (1) hour of continuing education. Association

                                             206
                      District meetings and/or training sessions held other than on a monthly
                      basis, will be evaluated, upon request, based on technical content, and
                      continuing education credit will be awarded for actual hours attended.

              (f)     Association annual conferences will be evaluated, upon request, based
                      on technical content, and Department sponsored continuing education
                      credit will be awarded for actual hours attended.

              (g)     Organizations that provide technical training, including, but not limited
                      to, the Mississippi Water Environment Association and the Mississippi
                      Rural Water Association may request Department approval of training
                      for continuing education credit. The Department shall consider requests
                      for Department sponsored continuing education credit for training in
                      which
                      the Department staff actively participate in the continuing
                      education curriculum development, presentation and evaluation.

              (h)     Special schools, experience, training, correspondence courses, and/or
                      other education and/or experiences may be approved at the discretion
                      of the Department.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.7 Revocation or Suspension of Certificates.

A.     The Commission may revoke or suspend the certificate of an operator, following
       a hearing before the Commission, when it is found that the operator:

       (1)    has practiced fraud or deception,

       (2)    fails to use reasonable care, judgment, and/or apply knowledge in
              the performance of duties,

       (3)    is incompetent or unable to properly perform duties,

       (4)    knowingly submits false or inaccurate information for issuance or renewal of
              a certificate under these regulations,

       (5)    willfully fails to comply with the conditions of the certificate issued by the
              Commission, or

        (6)   violates any provision of these regulations, the Municipal and Domestic Water
              and Wastewater System and Nonhazardous Solid Waste Management Facilities
              Operator's Certification Act of 1992, or any applicable Rule, regulation or
              written order of the Commission.

                                              207
B.     In the event the Commission suspends the certificate of an operator, the Commission
       may, as a part of the suspension, require the operator to comply with all applicable
       laws and regulations, to obtain additional continuing education and/or to complete
       other actions as required by the Commission. Failure to comply with the terms of the
       suspension may result in revocation of the operator's certificate.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.8 Enforcement and Appeals.

Enforcement and appeals shall be in accordance with the Municipal and Domestic Water
and Wastewater System and Nonhazardous Solid Waste Management Facilities Operator's
Certification Act of 1992.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                             208
Part 6, Chapter 4: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality State Revolving
Fund Loan Program Regulations (Effective for Projects Funded Prior to 10/1/2000)

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS
______________________________

Rule 4.1 Introductory Provisions

Rule 4.2 Program Requirements

Rule 4.3 Project Requirements

APPENDICES
      A.    Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs
      B.    Allowances for Facilities Planning, Design and Construction Phase Services
      C.    SRF National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Compliance Procedures
      D.    Procurement Requirements for SRF Loan Recipients
      E.    SRF MBE/WBE Requirements
      F.    Debarment and Suspension
      G.    SRF Disputes Procedures
      H.    Cross-Cutting Federal Laws
      I.    Waste, Fraud, and Abuse
      J.    SRF Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Procedures
      K.    Intergovernmental Review Process
      L.    SRF Procurement Protest Procedures
      M.    Related State Laws and Regulations
      N.    Buffer Zone Requirements
___________________________




Rule 4.1 Introductory Provisions.

A.     Scope of Regulations. These regulations, adopted pursuant to Section 49-17-61,
       Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, shall govern the Mississippi Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Fund Program. These regulations may be superceded by the SRF loan
       agreement when approved by the Department staff and when not in conflict with any
       state or federal law or executive order.

B.     Effective Date of Regulations. These regulations are effective December 1, 1999. These
       regulations shall also apply to loan agreements executed prior to this date unless the loan
       recipient requests that the previously effective regulations apply.



                                               209
C.   Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, shall have the
     following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

     (1)    Act - The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et
            seq., including any future amendments.

     (2)    Alternative Technology - Proven wastewater treatment processes and techniques
            which provide for the reclaiming and reuse of water, productively recycle
            wastewater constituents or otherwise eliminate the discharge of pollutants, or
            recover energy. Specifically, alternative technology includes land application of
            effluent and sludge; aquifer recharge; aquaculture; direct reuse (non-potable);
            horticulture; revegetation of disturbed land; containment ponds; sludge
            composting and drying prior to land application; self-sustaining incineration;
            methane recovery; individual and onsite systems; and small diameter pressure and
            vacuum sewers and small diameter gravity sewers carrying partially or fully
            treated wastewater.

     (3)    Authorized Representative - The signatory agent of the applicant authorized and
            directed by the applicant's governing body to make application for assistance and
            to sign documents required to undertake and complete the project, on behalf of the
            applicant. The signatory agent must be a member of, or an employee of, the
            applicant's governing body, and may not be under a separate contract with the
            applicant at any time during the execution of the project.

     (4)    Best Practicable Waste Treatment Technologies - The cost-effective technology
            that can treat wastewater, combined sewer overflows and nonexcessive infiltration
            and inflow in publicly owned or individual wastewater treatment works to meet
            the applicable provisions of federal and state effluent limitations, groundwater
            protection, or other applicable standards.

     (5)    Binding Commitment - A legal obligation, enforceable under State law,
            specifying the terms and schedules under which assistance is provided.

     (6)    Building - The erection, acquisition, alteration, remodeling, improvement or
            extension of treatment works.

     (7)    Capitalization Grant - Federal grant assistance awarded to the State for the
            establishment of the State Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund.

     (8)    Change Order - The documents issued by the loan recipient, upon
            recommendation of the consulting engineer, authorizing a change, alteration, or
            variance in previously approved engineering plans, specifications, and contract
            documents, including but not limited to, additions or deletions of work to be
            performed pursuant to the contract or a change in costs or time for work
            performed pursuant to the contract.



                                           210
(9)    Collector Sewer - The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment
       system, which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters directly from
       facilities which convey wastewater from individual systems, or from private
       property.

(10)   Commission - The Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality or its
       successors.

(11)   Construction - Any one or more of the following: erection, building, acquisition,
       alteration, remodeling, improvement or extension of treatment works.

(12)   Construction Fund - A dedicated source of funds, created and maintained by the
       applicant in a separate account at an official depository, or a designated
       depository approved by the Department staff, used solely for the purposes of
       construction and other allowable costs of a project funded by the Commission.

(13)   Consulting Engineer - The engineer or engineering firm retained by the loan
       recipient to provide professional engineering services during the planning, design,
       and/or construction of a project.

(14)   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis - An analysis performed to determine which waste
       treatment management system or component part will result in the minimum total
       monetary (resources) costs over time, without overriding nonmonetary
       considerations, to meet federal, state, and local requirements and objectives.

(15)   Department - The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality and staff.

(16)   Effluent Limitation - Any restriction established by the Department or the EPA
       administrator on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical,
       biological and other constituents which are discharged from a point source into
       waters of the State.

(17)   Eligible Applicant - A public waste treatment or collection management agency
       or any city, town, county, district, or other public body created by or pursuant to
       state law which has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater, industrial
       wastewater, wastewater sludges resulting from the treatment of such wastewater,
       stormwater, or nonpoint sources of pollution, has the authority under State and
       Federal law to receive SRF loan assistance, and has the ability to comply with this
       regulation and the requirements of the SRF loan agreement.

(18)   Enforceable Requirements of the Act - Those conditions and limitations of
       permits issued pursuant to the Act, Sections 402 and 404, which, if violated, could
       result in issuance of a compliance order or initiation of a civil or criminal action
       under the Act, Section 309. Where a permit has not been issued, but issuance is
       anticipated, the term means any requirement which will be in the permit when
       issued.


                                       211
(19)   Environmental Determination - A finding by the Department regarding the
       potential environmental impacts of a proposed project and describing what
       mitigative measures, if any, the applicant will be required to implement as a
       condition of financial assistance.

(20)   Environmental Information Document - A written analysis prepared by the
       applicant describing the potential environmental impacts of a proposed project,
       sufficient in scope to enable the Department staff to make an environmental
       assessment to allow an environmental determination to be made by the
       Department.

(21)   Environmental Review - The process whereby an evaluation is undertaken by the
       Department, consistent with the National Environmental Policy Act and other
       federal, state, and local laws and requirements, to determine whether a proposed
       project may have significant impacts on the environment.

(22)   EPA - The Environmental Protection Agency.

(23)   EPA Administrator - The chief officer of the Environmental Protection Agency
       appointed by the President of the United States.

(24)   Estuary Management Plan - A plan for the conservation and management of an
       estuary of national significance as described in Section 320 of the Act.

(25)   Executive Director - The executive director of the Mississippi Department of
       Environmental Quality, or his designee.

(26)   Facilities Planning - Those necessary plans and studies which directly relate to
       treatment works needed to comply with enforceable requirements of the Act and
       other eligible treatment works, and which consist of a systematic evaluation of
       alternatives that are feasible in light of the unique demographic, topographic,
       hydrologic and institutional characteristics of the area and will demonstrate the
       selected alternative is cost-effective, practical to implement and environmentally
       sound.

(27)   Financial Assistance - Loans by the Commission from the Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Fund.

(28)   Fund - The State Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, created pursuant to
       Section 49-17-61, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended.

(29)   Infiltration - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
       sewer service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such
       means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does
       not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.



                                      212
(30)   Inflow - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from
       sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area
       drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections
       between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm
       waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. Inflow does not include,
       and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(31)   Innovative Technology - Developed wastewater treatment processes and
       techniques which have not been fully proven under the circumstances of their
       contemplated use and which represent a significant advancement over the state of
       the art in terms of significant reduction in life cycle cost or significant
       environmental benefits through the reclaiming and reuse of water, otherwise
       eliminating the discharge of pollutants, utilizing recycling techniques such as land
       treatment, more efficient use of energy and resources, improved or new methods
       of waste treatment management for combined municipal and industrial systems,
       or the confined disposal of pollutants so that they will not migrate to cause water
       or other environmental pollution.

(32)   Intended Use Plan - A plan identifying the intended uses of the amount of funds
       available in the SRF for each fiscal year as described in Section 606(c) of the Act.

(33)   Interceptor Sewer - A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:

       (a)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed
              collector sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or
              another interceptor or pump station.

       (b)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the
              wastes to an adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance
              to a treatment plant.

       (c)    To transport wastewater from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (d)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated
              wastewater for transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to
              a treatment plant.

(34)   Nonpoint Source Pollution Plan - A plan for managing nonpoint source pollution
       as described in Section 319 of the Act.

(35)   Permit, Waste Discharge Permit - The authority granted by the Mississippi
       Environmental Quality Permit Board to discharge treated wastewater into or
       adjacent to waters of the state.


                                       213
(36)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents - The engineering description of
       the project including engineering drawings, maps, technical specifications, design
       reports and construction contract documents in sufficient detail as required by the
       Department staff, to allow contractors to bid on and construct the work.

(37)   Point Source - Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including but
       not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure,
       container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other
       floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does
       not include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated
       agriculture.

(38)   Priority List - A list of projects for which SRF assistance has been requested, and
       which displays projects that are both fundable during the current fiscal year and
       are planned for possible future funding, consistent with the current Priority
       System.

(39)   Priority System - The method of ranking projects for which SRF funding
       assistance has been requested, in order of priorities established by the
       Commission.

(40)   Project - The scope of work for which assistance is awarded under the SRF.

(41)   Project Completion - The date of the final construction inspection as performed
       by the Department.

(42)   Project Performance Standards - The performance and operational requirements
       applicable to a project including, but not limited to, the enforceable requirements
       of the Act and the specifications, which the project is planned to meet.

(43)   Refinancing - To provide SRF assistance for a project or project portion where the
       debt obligation was incurred and construction began prior to the date of the SRF
       loan award.

(44)   Regional Facility - Wastewater collection and treatment facilities, which
       incorporate multiple service areas into an area wide service facility, thereby
       reducing the number of required facilities, or any system which serves an area that
       is other than a single county, city, special district, or other political subdivision of
       the state, the specified size of which is determined by any one or combination of
       population, number of governmental entities served, and/or service capacity.

(45)   Service Line - A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with minor
       quantities of infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from
       residences, public buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.

(46)   State Allotment - The sum allocated to the State of Mississippi for a federal fiscal
       year, from funds appropriated by Congress pursuant to the Act.

                                         214
       (47)   SRF - The State Revolving Fund.

       (48)   Treatment Works - Any devices and systems which are used in the storage,
              treatment, recycling, and reclamation of waste or which are necessary to recycle
              or reuse water at the most economical cost over the estimated life of the works,
              including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
              pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions,
              improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; elements essential
              to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear
              well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an
              integral part of, or used in connection with, the treatment process (including land
              used for the storage of treated water in land treatment systems prior to land
              application) or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
              treatment; and any plant, disposal field, lagoon, canal, incinerator or other
              facilities installed for the purpose of treating, neutralizing or stabilizing
              wastewater or nonpoint source pollution or facilities to provide for the collection,
              control and disposal of wastewater or nonpoint source pollution.

       (49)   Value Engineering - A specialized cost control technique which uses a systematic
              and creative approach to identify and focus on unnecessarily high cost in a project
              in order to arrive at a cost saving without sacrificing the purpose, reliability or
              efficiency of the project.

       (50)   Water Quality Management Plan - A plan prepared and updated annually by the
              State and approved by the Environmental Protection Agency which determines
              the nature, extent, and cause of water quality problems in various areas of the
              State and identifies cost-effective and locally acceptable facility and nonpoint
              measures to meet and maintain water quality standards.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-61 through 49-17-70, 49-17-81 through 89, 49-2-1, et seq.
and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 4.2 Program Requirements

A.     Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
       must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Rule 4.1.C.(17) of this
       regulation, as determined by the Department.

B.     Obligation Period. Federal funds allotted to the State shall be available for obligation for
       a period of one year after the close of the federal fiscal year for which the funds are
       authorized.

C.     Reserves. The Commission shall reserve a percentage of the State's Title VI SRF
       allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the fund and for planning under
       Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state law.


                                               215
D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission shall provide
     for public comment and review to consider adoption of the annual intended use plan, the
     priority list, and the priority system. After adoption by the Commission, modifications to
     these documents may be adopted by the Commission as provided for in the Intended Use
     Plan without further public comment and review.

E.   Types of Assistance. The fund may be used for the following purposes, subject to that
     established in the Intended Use Plan for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans on the condition that:

            (a)     Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                    exceed 20 years.

            (b)     Monthly principal and interest payments will commence as further
                    described in Rule 4.3.H. of this regulation, and all loans will be fully
                    amortized not later than 20 years after project completion.

            (c)     The recipient of a loan will establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                    repayment of loans.

            (d)     The fund will be credited with all payments of principal and interest on all
                    loans.

     (2)    To refinance the debt obligation of eligible applicants at or below market rates
            when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or after
            March 7, 1985; and where such projects have complied with all applicable Title II
            requirements of the Act, crosscutting federal laws and executive orders, and this
            regulation. The prospective loan recipient agrees that by pursuing such a
            refinancing arrangement, he does so at his own risk, and thereby relieves the
            Commission, the Department, and the Department staff of all responsibility and
            liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
            such funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)    As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
            revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
            of such bonds will be deposited in the fund, and provided such authority is
            established in state law.

     (4)    For the reasonable costs of administering the fund and conducting activities under
            Title VI of the Act.

     (5)    To earn interest on fund accounts.

F.   State Capitalization Grant Application. After the Commission adopts the Intended Use
     Plan, including the Priority System and Priority List, the Executive Director or his


                                            216
     designee shall submit these items with an application for the capitalization grant for that
     fiscal year to EPA.

G.   Federal Title II Requirements. All projects which receive loan assistance from the fund
     and which will be constructed in whole or in part before fiscal year 1995 with funds
     directly made available by capitalization grants must meet the Title II requirements under
     Sections 201(b), 201(g)(1), 201(g)(2), 201(g)(3), 201(g)(5), 201(g)(6), 201(n)(1), 201(o),
     204(a)(1), 204(a)(2), 204(b)(1), 204(d)(2), 211, 218, 511(c)(1) and 513 of the Act.
     Current EPA regulations promulgated under these sections of the Act will apply, except
     as noted below. These requirements will be superceded by any subsequent federal law or
     regulation if so specified by that law or regulation. The Department may establish state
     procedures accepted by EPA. In applying these EPA regulations, the word "Department"
     shall be substituted for the word "EPA" or "Regional Administrator" and the words "loan
     recipient" shall be substituted for the word "grantee". A summary of these Title II
     requirements and the applicable regulations is as follows:

     (1)    (Section 201(b), which requires that projects apply best practicable waste
            treatment technology (see 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(7): Definition of BPWTT; 40 CFR
            35.2030(b)(2): Facilities Planning);

     (2)    Section 201(g)(1), which limits assistance to projects for secondary treatment,
            advanced treatment or any cost-effective alternative, new interceptors and
            appurtenances, and infiltration-inflow correction. This section retains the
            Governor's discretionary set-aside by which a State can use up to 20 percent of its
            allotment for other projects within the definition of treatment works in Section
            212(2), and for certain non-point source control and groundwater protection
            purposes, as defined in section 319 of the Act (40 CFR 35.2015(b)(2)(ii-iv): State
            Priority System and Project Priority List);

     (3)    Section 201(g)(2), which requires that alternative technologies be considered in
            project design (40 CFR 53.2030: Facilities Planning);

     (4)    Section 201(g)(3), which requires that applicants show that the related sewer
            collection system is not subject to excessive infiltration or inflow (40 CFR
            35.2030(b)(4): Facilities Planning; 40 CFR 35.2120: Infiltration/Inflow);

     (5)    Section 201(g)(5), which requires that applicants study innovative and alternative
            treatment technologies and take into account opportunities to construct revenue
            producing facilities and to make more efficient uses of energy and resources (40
            CFR 35.2030: Facilities Planning);

     (6)    Section 201(g)(6), which requires that the applicant analyze potential recreation
            and open space opportunities in the planning of the proposed facility (40 CFR
            35.2030(b)(5): Facilities Planning);

     (7)    Section 201(n)(1), which provides that funds under Section 205 may be used for
            water quality problems due to discharges of combined sewer overflows, which are

                                             217
       not otherwise eligible, if such discharges are a major priority in a State (40 CFR
       35.2015(b)(2)(iv): State Priority Systems--categories of need and 35.2024(a):
       Combined Sewer Overflows);

(8)    Section 201(o), which calls on the Administrator ("State" under a capitalization
       grant) to encourage and assist communities in the development of capital
       financing plans;

(9)    Section 204(a)(1) and (2), which require that treatment works projects be included
       in plans developed under Sections 208 and 303(e) (40 CFR 35.2102: Water
       Quality management Plans);

(10)   Section 204(b)(1), which requires that communities develop user charge systems
       and have the legal, institutional, managerial and financial capability to construct,
       operate, and maintain the treatment works (40 CFR 35.2208: Adoption of Sewer
       Use Ordinance and User Charge System; 35.2130: Sewer Use Ordinance;
       35.2140: User Charge System; 35.2214: Grantee Responsibilities; 35.2122:
       Approval of User Charge System and proposed Sewer Use Ordinance; 35.2110:
       Access to Individual Systems; and 35.2206(a):

(11)   Section 204(d)(2), which requires that, one year after the date of completion of
       construction and initiation of operation the owner/operator of the treatment works
       must certify that the facility meets design specifications and effluent limitations
       included in its permit (40 CFR 35.2218(c), (d), (e)(1) and (e)(2): Project
       Performance); except that the provisions of 40 CFR 35.2032(c) will not apply;

(12)   Section 211, Federal regulation concerning collection systems (40 CFR 35.2116)
       do not apply, and are replaced by the following:

       (a)    SRF assistance may be provided for sewage collection systems, provided
              such assistance

              (1)     is for replacement or major rehabilitation of an existing collection
                      system and is necessary to the total integrity and performance of
                      the waste treatment works servicing such a community, or


              (2)    is for a new collection system in an existing community with
                     sufficient existing or planned capacity to adequately treat such
                     collected sewage and is consistent with Section 201 of the Act. For
                     the purposes of this regulation, the term "existing community"
                     means those residences, public buildings, and businesses that are
                     correctly documented as existing in the approved SRF facilities
                     plan. If assistance is awarded, the loan recipient must cause the
                     existing buildings to be connected to the collection system within
                     the time specified in the loan agreement;


                                       218
     (13)    Section 218, which assures that treatment systems are cost-effective and requires
            that projects of over $10 million include a value-engineering review (40 CFR
            35.2030(b)(3): Cost Effectiveness, Facilities Planning, and 35.2114:Value
            Engineering); except that the provisions of Rule 4.3.B.(2) of this regulation
            supercede these federal regulations where applicable;

     (14)   Section 511(c)(1), which applies the National Environmental Policy Act to
            projects receiving Title II grants (40 CFR 35.2113: Environmental Review). The
            state environmental review requirements, which comply with this federal law,
            are discussed in greater detail in Appendix C;

     (15)   Section 513, which applies Davis-Bacon labor wage provisions to treatment
            works construction (see 29 CFR Part 5). Wages paid for the construction of
            treatment works must conform to the prevailing wage rates established for the
            locality by the U.S. Department of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act (Section
            513, applies 40 U.S.C. 276, et seq.).

H.   Intended Use Plan. Each fiscal year for which funds are available in the SRF, the
     Commission shall establish an intended use plan which shall be subjected to public
     comment and review prior to adoption by the Commission. The intended use plan will
     include the following items:

     (1)    A description of both the short and long term goals and objectives of the fund.

     (2)    A list of projects for construction of treatment works which are included on the
            fundable portion of the Priority List and a list of activities eligible for assistance
            under Sections 319 and 320 of the Act. The list of projects will include the
            following items:

            (a)    Name of the recipient.

            (b)    Facility description.

            (c)    Project treatment/use categories.

            (d)    Treatment requirements.

            (e)    Terms of financial assistance.

     (3)    Assurances for meeting the requirements of Section 602(b) of the Act:

            (a)    The Department will enter into binding commitments equal to at least
                   120% of the capitalization grant payments within one year after the receipt
                   of the grant payment.

            (b)    All funds will be expended in an expeditious manner.


                                             219
            (c)    All capitalization grant funds will first be used toward compliance with
                   the enforceable requirements of the Act, including the municipal
                   compliance deadline of July 1, 1988, in accordance with EPA guidance.

            (d)    All projects funded with funds directly made available by capitalization
                   grants will meet the Federal Title II requirements as described in Rule
                   4.2.G. of this regulation.

     (4)    The Priority System which describes the method of ranking projects, the method
            for distribution of funds, and project action deadlines which all fundable projects
            must meet or be subject to bypass from the priority list.

I.   SRF Financing. The SRF has been established to provide low interest loans to assist and
     encourage communities to construct wastewater treatment and collection facilities
     required to improve water quality and public health. Types of assistance are itemized in
     Rule 4.2.E. of this regulation. Basic SRF financing requirements are as follows:

     (1)    All eligible applicants requesting SRF assistance shall meet the following
            requirements in order to receive such assistance.

            (a)    The applicant's project must be on the fundable portion of the current
                   year's Priority List.

            (b)    The applicant must enter into legal and binding commitments with the
                   Commission and the State Tax Commission to secure financing.

            (c)    Terms of any SRF assistance will be as established in the Intended Use
                   Plan for the projects to be funded in each fiscal year, and will be further
                   established in the SRF loan agreement and repayment agreement.

            (d)    The applicant must complete an application, and must secure approvals of
                   all documents required by the Department.

            (e)    The applicant must comply with the requirements of the Water Quality
                   Act of 1987 and all applicable state laws, requirements and regulations.

            (f)    The applicant must establish a dedicated source of funds for repayment of
                   the loan.

            (g)    The applicant must not be in violation of, or delinquent on, any provision
                   of a previously awarded SRF loan agreement and repayment agreement.

     (2)    Payments from the fund to the loan recipient shall be made no more often than
            monthly, generally as construction is progressing.         Except for program
            administration expenses, funds will not be disbursed from the construction fund
            without first entering into a legal and binding commitment with the Commission.
            Project payments are further described in Rule 4.3.G.

                                            220
J.     Responsibility. The applicant (or loan recipient) is responsible for the proper planning,
       design, construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal
       integrity of the project. The Department's approval of any document does not relieve the
       applicant (or loan recipient) or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities.
       Department approval of any document is for administrative purposes only and does not
       establish or convey any such liability or responsibility.

K.     Other Approvals. The applicant (or loan recipient) shall obtain approval of all necessary
       documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
       in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-61 through 49-17-70, 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et
seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 4.3 Project Requirements. Until such time as the State satisfies the Title II funding
limitations described in Rule 4.2.G. of this regulation, all wastewater projects (as described in
Section 212 of the Act) funded by the SRF must comply with the Title II requirements of Rule
4.2.G. and the crosscutting requirements in Appendix H. In addition, the following project
requirements also apply:

A.     Facilities Planning.

       (1)     Preplanning Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer
               shall request and attend a preplanning conference with the Department staff as
               early in the planning process as practical. During the conference the staff will
               provide information, advice, instruction, and guidance on the scope of work and
               level of effort needed to define eligible projects, in order to ensure that the
               applicant expeditiously complies with the facilities planning requirements dictated
               by the Act and State regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared by or under
               the responsible supervision of a professional engineer, registered under
               Mississippi law.

       (2)     Contents of Facilities Plan. All facilities plans must contain that described in the
               Department's guidance for SRF facilities plans, including all updates, and as may
               be required by Department staff pursuant to review of the facilities plan. The
               facilities plan must also be prepared in accordance with Appendices A, B, C, H, I,
               K, M, and N of this regulation. Should an applicant desire to omit or modify a
               portion of the facilities plan as required by the Department's guidance for SRF
               facilities plans, approval by the Department staff must be obtained prior to
               completion and submission of the facilities plan. The facilities plan must also
               include a financial capability analysis in accordance with Department guidance.
               The facilities plan must bear the seal of the registered professional engineer
               responsible for preparation of this document.

       (3)     Environmental Review Process. Prior to approval of the facilities plan, the
               Department staff will complete the appropriate portions of the environmental

                                                221
           review procedure described in Appendix C of this regulation, based upon the
           evaluation of environmental impacts of the selected alternative as described in the
           facilities plan.

     (4)   Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department staff will approve the facilities plan
           after completing the appropriate environmental review procedure and after
           determining that all facilities planning requirements have been met and are
           approvable.

B.   Engineering Design.

     (1)   Predesign Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer shall
           request and attend a predesign conference with Department staff as early in the
           design process as practical. all plans, specifications and contract documents must
           be prepared by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer
           registered under Mississippi law.

     (2)   Value Engineering.

           (a)    Applicability. The applicant shall conduct value engineering during the
                  design of the project, if he estimated cost of building the treatment works
                  is more than $5 million. Value engineering for projects of less than $5
                  million may be conducted at the discretion of the applicant. Applicants
                  who conduct value engineering may receive an additional design
                  allowance, as described in Appendix B, as a part of the loan award.

           (b)    Guidance. The applicant shall utilize the Department's guidance on the
                  scope and performance of the value engineering analysis.

     (3)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.

           (a)    General Requirements. The applicant shall prepare plans, specifications
                  and contract documents on all appropriate elements of the project. These
                  documents shall conform to Department requirements, to Appendices A,
                  C, D, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, and N of this regulation, and to the technical
                  requirements of the Departmental document, "State of Mississippi
                  Requirements for the Design of Municipal Wastewater Treatment
                  Facilities," or its successor. Other recognized engineering publications
                  may be used for unit processes or technologies not described in the
                  "Requirements."

                  Plans, specifications, and contract documents must also conform to such
                  contract language, conditions, and forms as may be required by
                  Department staff. The plans and specifications shall incorporate the
                  accepted recommendations of any value engineering performed in
                  accordance with this regulation. The plans, specifications, and contract


                                           222
      documents must bear the seal of the registered professional engineer
      responsible for preparation of these documents.

(b)   Contents. The plans, specifications, and contract documents shall contain
      the following:

      (1)    Provisions assuring compliance with these regulations and all
             relevant federal and state laws.

      (2)    Forms by which the bid bond, performance bond and payment
             bonds will be provided.

      (3)    Until such time as the State satisfies the Title II funding limitations
             described in Rule 4.2.G. of this regulation, provisions requiring the
             successful contractor and subcontractors to pay all laborers and
             mechanics employed on the project not less than the prevailing
             wage rates, as determined by the United States Secretary of Labor,
             in accordance with the federal Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276, et
             seq.).

      (4)    A contractor's assurance form to be executed by the contractor
             which shall warrant compliance by the contractor with all
             applicable federal laws and regulations and all law of the State of
             Mississippi and all regulations and published policies of the
             Commission.

      (5)    If determined to be necessary by the applicant, provisions
             providing for the applicant to retain a certain percentage of the
             progress payments otherwise due to the contractor until the
             building of the project is substantially complete, in accordance
             with state law.

      (6)    Provisions requiring the contractor to obtain and maintain the
             appropriate insurance coverage.

      (7)    Provisions giving authorized representatives of the Department
             access to all such construction activities, books, records,
             documents and other evidence of the contractor for the purpose of
             inspection, audit and copying during normal business and/or
             working hours.

      (8)    Provisions for compliance with the MBE/WBE requirements as
             described in Appendix E of this regulation.

      (9)    Those conditions, specifications and other provisions provided by
             or required by the Department staff.


                              223
           (c)    Related Submittals. The following documents, if applicable to the project,
                  must also be submitted prior to, or along with the plans, specifications,
                  and contract documents; or at other times may be required by the Priority
                  System:

                  (1)     A completed NPDES permit application.

                  (2)     A completed Section 404 and/or Section 10 permit application, or
                          a letter from the Corps of Engineers which states that such permits
                          are not needed.

                  (3)     A completed solid waste disposal permit application.

                  (4)     Approved archaeological/cultural resource surveys, or a letter from
                          the Mississippi Department of Archives and History which states
                          that such surveys are not needed.

                  (5)     Approved vegetative/wildlife surveys, or a letter from the
                          Mississippi Natural Heritage Program which states that such
                          surveys are not needed.

     (4)   Approval of Plans and Specifications.

           (a)    Department Approval. The Department staff will approve the plans,
                  specifications, and contract documents upon determining that these
                  documents:

                  (1)     Conform to the requirements listed in this regulation;

                  (2)     Are consistent with all relevant federal and state laws;

                  (3)     Pass a biddability, operability, and constructability review by the
                          Department staff;

                  (4)     Are consistent with the facilities planning documents and
                          environmental determinations required by this regulation; and

                  (5)     Are otherwise approvable pursuant to review by the Department
                          staff.

C.   Application for SRF Loan.

     (1)   Preapplication Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer
           shall request and attend a preapplication conference with Department staff as
           early in the application process as practical.



                                           224
(2)   Contents of Application. All documents listed below must be complete and
      approvable when submitted to the Department staff.

      An original and one copy of the SRF loan application shall be submitted to the
      Department staff. Only forms provided by the Department staff may be used, and
      they must not be altered. The SRF loan application may request assistance only
      for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendices A and B of this
      regulation, and may include a construction contingency, as determined by the
      Department staff, in the project budget. The application amount shall include any
      administration fee charged to the loan recipient by the Department, as established
      in the Intended Use Plan under which the project is funded. A complete
      application shall conform to this regulation, including all Appendices, and shall
      include the following:

      (a)    A completed SRF loan application form.

      (b)    A draft user charge system and ordinance. The user charge system shall
             be designed to produce adequate revenues required for operation,
             maintenance, replacement, retirement of existing debt and repayments of
             the State Revolving Fund Loan for the project and shall identify the
             dedicated source of funds, the basis of payment, and user charges for each
             user class.

      (c)    A draft sewer use ordinance. The sewer use ordinance shall prohibit new
             connections of inflow sources, shall require that new sewers and
             connections are properly designed and constructed, shall prohibit
             combined sewers, shall prohibit the introduction of toxics or other
             pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety or
             physical integrity of the treatment works, cause violation of effluent or
             water quality limitations, or preclude the selection of the most cost
             effective alternative for wastewater treatment and sludge disposal.

      (d)    A complete procurement package for all eligible engineering, inspection,
             architectural, administrative and legal services included in the SRF loan
             application. Procurement packages for the facilities planning and
             engineering design are not to be submitted. All procurement actions
             related to the SRF Loan project shall comply with state law and Appendix
             D of this regulation, and a certification from the applicant to this effect
             shall be included in all procurement packages.

      (e)    (1)    For all loan ineligible real property and easements (including
                    power and other utilities), completion of the appropriate
                    requirements of the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and
                    Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, and certification forms
                    from both the loan applicant and the Title Counsel which indicate
                    that all such loan ineligible real property and easements for the


                                     225
             entire project have been secured by at least one of the following
             actions:

             (a)     Clear title

             (b)     Execution by both parties of a bonafide option to purchase
                     or lease.

             (c)     Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in court.

             Prior to loan award, clear title certification forms from both the
             loan applicant and the Title Counsel must be submitted for all loan
             ineligible real property and easements (including poser and other
             utilities).

      (2)    For all loan eligible real property, such as for land treatment
             projects, completion of the appropriate requirements of the federal
             Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
             Policies Act, and a written request to the Department staff for
             approval of the purchase price of all such loan eligible real
             property. Prior to loan award, the applicant must secure approval
             of the purchase price by the Department staff and must submit and
             executed bonafide option to purchase.

(f)   A statement of the amount of all necessary local funds for the project and
      a certification form from the loan applicant which states that all local
      funds necessary for the project have been secured, or will be secured
      within 90 days after loan award, and a statement to this effect from the
      funding source. If local funds will be raised by a local bond issue, a
      certified copy of the authorizing resolution and an approvable bond
      issuance schedule may be submitted in lieu of a statement from a funding
      source.

(g)   A completed financial capability analysis using the most recent design
      level cost estimates in Rule 4.3.C.(2)(l).

(h)   Completion of the intergovernmental review process as described in
      Appendix K of this regulation, and the final comment letter from the State
      Clearinghouse, and all other intergovernmental review agency comments
      received.

(i)   A certification form from the loan applicant and the loan applicant's legal
      counsel, stating that (1) the loan applicant has authority under federal and
      state laws and regulations to receive SRF loan assistance, to collect user
      charges through an approved user charge system, to enforce the user
      charge system and sewer use ordinance, to repay the loan under the terms
      of the loan agreement, to comply with all other terms of the loan

                               226
                  agreement, to own, operate, maintain and replace the facilities to be
                  constructed with SRF loan funds, and that (2) there are no restrictions
                  under federal or state laws or regulations regarding indebtedness which
                  may prevent the loan applicant from executing the SRF loan agreement
                  and implementing the project.

           (j)    A certified copy of a resolution by the loan applicant's governing body
                  which (1) authorizes the submission of the application, and (2) designates
                  an authorized representative or office for executing the application and to
                  be the authorized representative on the project.

           (k)    A copy of all actual or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
                  project. Such agreements must be executed by all appropriate parties and
                  must be approved by Department staff prior to loan award.

           (l)    A copy of the bid forms from the plans and specifications filled out with
                  the consulting engineer's cost estimates. The construction costs shown on
                  the application must match those on the bid forms.

           (m)    A certification regarding debarment, suspension and other responsibility
                  matters, in accordance with Appendix F of this regulation.

           (n)    All other forms, documents, and supporting information required by the
                  Department staff.

D.   Award of SRF Loan

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department staff that (a) all applicable requirements
           of this regulation and applicable state and federal laws have been met, (b) all
           applicable documents have been approved, (c) all applicable permits have been
           issued or will be issued, (d) the project is on the fundable portion of the current
           year priority list and has not been bypassed by the Commission, and (e) funds are
           available for the amount of the SRF loan application, the Executive Director, or
           his designee, shall execute and transmit an SRF loan offer (includes an offer
           letter, loan agreement and initial repayment agreement) to the loan recipient. In
           addition to the estimated allowable project costs as described in Appendices A
           and B of this regulation, the loan offer may include a construction contingency, as
           determined by the Department staff, in the project budget. This contingency may
           be reduced after receipt of construction bids as described in Rule 4.3.D.5. below.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the SRF loan offer, the loan recipient must completely execute
           and return it to the Department staff, along with a certified copy of a resolution by
           the loan recipient's governing body authorizing acceptance of the loan offer,
           within the timeframe established in the SRF loan offer. The loan offer becomes
           void if not executed and returned within the timeframe specified, unless extended
           by the Executive Director or his designee.


                                           227
     (3)   Upon return of the executed SRF loan offer to the Department staff, any
           administration fee established in the loan agreement will be processed accordingly
           and such fee will be paid to an appropriate Department administration fund.

     (4)   Upon return of the executed SRF loan offer to the Department staff, the loan
           recipient must then advertise the project for construction bids within the
           timeframe established in the loan agreement. All procurement actions by the loan
           recipient must comply with state law and Appendix D of this regulation.

     (5)   Upon receipt of construction bids, the loan recipient must then submit (a) the
           completed MBE/WBE documentation as required by Appendix E of this
           regulation, (b) the completed bid package, and (c) a completed loan agreement
           amendment request (to reflect as-bid construction costs, a construction
           contingency as determined by the Department staff, and final allowances) to the
           Department staff within the timeframes established in the loan agreement.

     (6)   Upon receipt of the completed MBE/WBE documentation, bid package and
           completed loan agreement amendment request from the loan recipient, the
           Department staff will review these documents, determine whether any request for
           an increased loan amount is justified, eligible, and that funds are available and,
           after determining that all documents are approvable, will transmit to the loan
           recipient an authority to award the construction contracts and an amended SRF
           loan offer, which includes in the project budget (a) the approved as-bid amounts
           for construction, (b) the final allowance amounts for facilities planning,
           engineering design, and construction phase services in accordance with Appendix
           B of this regulation, and (c) a construction contingency as determined by the
           Department staff. After execution of the amended SRF loan offer, the SRF loan
           amount may not be increased except for funding of a subsequent segment of a
           segmented project as identified in the Intended Use Plan for a later fiscal year.
           Any increased project costs in excess of the amended SRF loan amount must be
           paid by the loan recipient from sources other than SRF loan funds.

E.   Construction Phase

     (1)   Awarding Construction Contracts and Preconstruction Conference. Upon receipt
           of the authority to award the construction contracts and issue the notice to
           proceed, the loan recipient must do so and must transmit a copy of the executed
           construction contracts and the notice to proceed to the Department staff within the
           timeframe specified in the loan agreement.

           The loan recipient shall be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
           procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in advertising for bids and
           awarding the construction contracts. The plans, specifications, and executed
           contract documents shall not vary from those approved by the Department staff.

           The loan recipient shall arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and shall
           allow attendance and participation by the Department staff.

                                           228
(2)   Observation During Construction. During all times that construction work is
      being performed, the loan recipient shall provide for full-time observation of the
      project by the consulting engineer and shall require the consulting engineer's
      assurance that the work is being performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance
      with the SRF loan agreement and the approved plans, specifications and contract
      documents, approved change orders, and in accordance with sound engineering
      principles and building practices. Less than full-time observation may be allowed
      when properly justified and approved by the Department staff.

      The Department staff is authorized to observe the building of any project at any
      time in order to assure that plans, specifications and contract documents are being
      followed and that the project is being built in accordance with sound engineering
      principles and building practices. A representative may be stationed at the
      building site by the Department staff to report on the manner and progress of the
      building or to report conditions relating to the equipment or materials furnished
      and the compliance by the contractor with approved plans, specifications and
      contract documents for the project. Such observation shall not subject the
      Department to any action for damages of other liability. Such observation will
      not release the contractor from any requirements of the contract documents or the
      consulting engineer from determining compliance with the requirements of the
      contract documents or the loan recipient rom insuring compliance with the terms
      of the loan agreement.

      The contractor, consulting engineer and loan recipient shall furnish the
      Department staff with every reasonable facility for determining whether the work
      as performed is in accordance with the requirement and intent of the plans,
      specifications and contract documents. The Department staff is authorized to
      review and require submission of daily logs, record drawings, field notes, and any
      other document prepared by any party in relation to the SRF project.

(3)   Observation of Materials and Equipment. The Department staff is also authorized
      to observe all equipment and materials furnished, including observation of the
      preparation or manufacture of the equipment and materials to be used.

(4)   Construction Deficiencies

      (a)    In the event construction procedures, materials or equipment are
             determined by the Department staff to be substandard, otherwise
             unsatisfactory, and/or not in conformity with approved plans and
             specifications, the Department staff may order the loan recipient to take
             such action through the consulting engineer in the manner provided for in
             the construction contract to correct any such deficiency.

      (b)    The Department staff may immediately begin withholding SRF loan
             payments should such substandard or unsatisfactory construction work,
             materials, or equipment become evident and may require the loan recipient

                                      229
             to repay any previously paid amounts related to such work, within 30 days
             of such notification. Interest may be charged on such delinquent
             repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at the rate established in
             Rule 4.3.G(6) of this regulation. Alternatively, the Department staff may
             withhold such amounts from subsequent payment requests.

      (c)    In those instances of dispute between the loan recipient or consulting
             engineer and the Department staff as to whether material or equipment
             furnished or work performed conforms with the terms of the construction
             contract, the Executive Director or his designee may order the loan
             recipient to reject unsatisfactory construction work, materials or
             equipment and/or initiate other action provided for in the construction
             contract, including suspension of work where necessary, until all disputed
             issues are resolved in accordance with the terms.

      (d)    In addition to normal testing procedures required of the loan recipient,
             should questions arise concerning the construction work, materials or
             equipment, the Department staff may require the loan recipient to perform
             reasonable additional tests of construction materials, equipment or
             processes which the Department staff determines to be necessary during
             the construction of the project. All tests, whether for the Department staff
             or the consulting engineer, shall conform to current American Water
             Works Association, American Association of State Highway and
             Transportation Officials, or American Society of Testing and Materials
             published procedures, or similar criteria. The Department staff shall
             specify which tests are applicable, if not described in the approved plans,
             specifications, and contract documents. Samples for testing shall be
             furnished free of cost, if so requested, to the Department staff upon request
             on the construction site.

(5)   Change Orders. The loan recipient, consulting engineer and construction
      contractor shall comply with the EPA publication Management of Construction
      Change Orders. If after the construction contract has been executed it becomes
      apparent that changes in such plans, specifications or contract documents are
      necessary or appropriate, a proposed change order and justification shall be
      submitted to the Department staff for approval, well in advance of the
      construction change when possible. Approval of change orders may be secured
      from the Department either before or after such work is initiated, at the discretion
      of the loan recipient. The Department staff may identify eligible costs and may
      approve the change order to the previously approved engineering plans,
      specifications and contract documents including but not limited to additions or
      deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract. Such change order
      shall not change, vary or alter the basic purpose or effect of a project, shall be
      technically adequate, the costs shall be justified and reasonable, and
      eligible/ineligible costs shall be appropriately separated.



                                      230
      All requests for change order approvals shall contain (a) sufficient information
      and justification, (b) applicable plans or drawings, (c) construction contractor's
      cost breakdowns, (d) the consulting engineer's analysis of the cost breakdown,
      and (e) a memorandum of negotiations to enable the Department staff to review
      the change order. Engineering computations and sketches shall also be included
      if necessary to justify the change.

      Justification for contract time extensions included in a change order shall be
      prepared but need not be submitted to the Department unless the total time
      extensions for the contract exceed 25% of the original contract time, in which
      case justification for all time extensions shall be submitted to the Department for
      review and approval. Construction work which occurs after the date representing
      a 25% time extension to the original contract time is not allowable, unless
      approved as such by the Department staff pursuant to review of the justification
      for all time extensions.

(6)   Contractor Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or
      default, any agreements entered into with the bonding company (other than the
      bonding company serving as general contractor or fully bonding another
      contractor acting as their agent) shall be submitted for approval of the Department
      staff. The loan recipient shall be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
      procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in advertising for bids and
      re-awarding a construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(7)   Construction Phase Submittals, Approvals, and Actions. The following
      submittals, approvals and actions will be required during the construction phase of
      the project. The Department staff may establish other timeframes within the loan
      agreement when properly justified.

      (a)    Within 90 days after loan award, (1) proof of applicable flood insurance
             shall be submitted, (2) all construction related contracts shall be advertised
             for bids and proof of such shall be submitted and (3) all local funds
             necessary for the project shall be secured and proof of such shall be
             submitted.

      (b)    Within 14 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall submit all
             MBE/WBE, EEO and related documents.

      (c)    Within 21 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall submit all bid
             packages.

      (d)    Within 60 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall execute and
             submit all construction related contract documents and shall issue and
             submit a notice to proceed on all such contracts.

      (e)    By the date initially established in the loan agreement (which is based
             upon approximately 50% of contract time), the loan recipient shall submit

                                      231
                   for review (1) a completed operation and maintenance manual for all
                   facilities to be constructed in whole or in part with SRF loan funds and (2)
                   a plan of how the loan recipient will insure that operators are hired and
                   certified in accordance with state law by the date in f. below.

            (f)    By the date initially established in the loan agreement (which is based
                   upon approximately 90% of contract time), the loan recipient shall (1)
                   enact the approved user charge system and sewer use ordinance, (2) secure
                   approval of the operation and maintenance manual, (3) hire and operators
                   and (4) submit their names and submit the operator certification numbers
                   for the operators certified in accordance with state law.

            (g)    Within 5 days after construction completion of each construction contract,
                   the loan recipient shall submit a determination of construction completion
                   and shall request a final construction inspection by the Department staff.
                   The determination of construction completion shall be made by the
                   consulting engineer and the loan recipient. The final construction
                   inspection may be delayed by the Department staff pursuant to review of
                   the loan recipient's request and justification for such delay. Should the
                   Department staff decide that the determination of construction completion
                   and request for final construction inspection are being unreasonably
                   delayed, a final construction inspection may be immediately performed by
                   the Department staff.

            (h)    Within 30 days after the final construction inspection performed by the
                   Department staff, the loan recipient shall submit final payment requests,
                   approvable summary change orders for all construction contracts, a
                   complete set of as-built plans for the entire project funded in whole or in
                   part with SRF loan funds, and all other administrative forms and
                   documents required by the loan agreement. Payment requests submitted
                   after this date are not allowable, regardless of when the costs were
                   incurred.

            (i)    Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement shall be
                   performed when so required and are subject to review and approval by the
                   Department staff.

     (8)    Retainage. The loan recipient may retain progress payments to any party under
            contract with the loan recipient, consistent with state law. Any such retained
            amounts may not be requested or paid to the loan recipient from SRF loan funds.

F.   Post Construction Phase

     (1)    Following final payment of SRF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon
            expiration of any deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department
            staff, the Department staff or other designated parties may perform an audit of the
            SRF loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the SRF loan

                                            232
      agreement and to determine final allowable costs, payments made thus far, and
      any additional payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State.

(2)   Upon completion of the SRF audit (or, if an audit is not performed, following
      final payment of SRF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon expiration of any
      deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department Staff), the
      Department staff will transmit to the loan recipient a copy of the audit and a final
      determination of allowable costs and payments due the loan recipient or
      repayments due the State. This final determination will also establish a 30-day
      appeal deadline, as required by 3. below, and will require repayment of any
      overpayments with an interest penalty to begin accruing on the appeal deadline.
      the interest penalty will be as established in Rule 4.3.G.(6) of this regulation.

(3)   Within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan recipient
      may submit a written appeal the final determination, including a written
      justification of the reason for the appeal and supporting documentation for any
      disputed costs of the final determination; otherwise, the final determination
      allowable costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of SRF loan
      payments and the SRF loan repayment agreement.

(4)   Should an appeal be submitted in accordance with paragraph (3) above, the
      disputes procedures established in Appendix G of this regulation will be followed
      in order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable costs.

(5)   Upon expiration of the final determination appeal period, or upon resolution of a
      dispute of the final determination, the Department staff will transmit to the loan
      recipient a final SRF loan repayment agreement between the loan recipient and
      the State Tax Commission as established by state law. The loan recipient shall
      execute and submit to the Department the final loan repayment agreement within
      the deadline established by the Department.

(6)   Upon receipt of an executed final repayment agreement from the loan recipient,
      the Department staff will transmit the repayment agreement to the State Tax
      Commission for execution and return to the Department staff.

(7)   Upon receipt of the executed final repayment agreement from the State Tax
      Commission, the Department staff will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
      repayment of the SRF loan will commence under the terms of the repayment
      agreement.

(8)   On the date one year after initiation of operation of the project, which is defined
      as the date of the final construction inspection performed by Department staff, the
      loan recipient shall submit a certification that the project meets all of the project
      performance standards, in accordance with the SRF loan agreement and
      department requirements. If the loan recipient cannot certify that all project
      performance standards are being met, a negative certification shall be submitted
      on this date along with a corrective action report and an approvable schedule for

                                      233
           meeting the project performance standards. all certifications shall be submitted
           on forms established by the Department staff. Failure to submit such
           certifications or to implement corrective actions in a timely manner may result in
           the Department staff determining all or a portion of the loan award unallowable
           and requiring repayment of such unallowable amounts within 30 days of such
           determination.

G.   Payments to SRF Loan Recipients. Payments from the SRF may be made to SRF loan
     recipients under the following conditions:

     (1)   Payments may be requested by and may be made only to loan recipient, in
           accordance with the SRF loan agreement and the loan recipient's contracts for
           services and construction for work performed within the project scope and budget
           period, unless specifically allowed other by the SRF loan agreement.

     (2)   Payments may be requested and paid no more often than on a monthly basis.

     (3)   The loan recipient shall deduct from all SRF payment requests the amount of
           funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency funding
           sources for allowable SRF project costs.

     (4)   Payment requests shall be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department staff
           and shall include the following:

           (a)    SRF payment request form

           (b)    Invoices for all allowable costs for which payment is requested, except
                  that invoices need not be submitted for payment of the facilities planning
                  and design allowance, as determined by Appendix B of this regulation and
                  need not be submitted for any administrative fee included in the loan
                  agreement.

           (c)    Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

     (5)   The timing of SRF payments will be as follows, provided the loan recipient is in
           compliance with the requirements of this regulation and all provisions of the SRF
           loan agreement:

           (a)    Upon execution of the SRF loan agreement, 50% of the estimated facilities
                  planning and design allowance, as determined by Appendix B of this
                  regulation, may be requested and paid.

           (b)    Upon execution and submittal of all construction contracts within the
                  project scope and upon issuance and submittal of the notice to proceed on
                  all such contracts, the remainder of the final facilities planning and design
                  allowance may be requested and paid.


                                           234
           (c)    Payments for the construction phase services allowance, as determined by
                  Appendix B of this regulation, may be requested and paid based upon
                  incurred allowable costs. Such requested payment amounts are subject to
                  verification by the Department staff. No more than 85% of the total
                  construction phase services allowance will be paid pending submission of
                  the determination of construction completion, performance of the final
                  construction inspection by department staff, submission of the final pay
                  request, submission of approvable summary change orders on all
                  construction contracts, submission of as-built plans on all construction
                  contracts, and compliance with all other applicable provisions of the SRF
                  loan agreement. Upon completion of these actions, the remainder of the
                  construction phase services allowance may be requested and paid.

           (d)    Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
                  based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
                  specified in the construction contract, and as supported by invoices and
                  verified as accurate by the consulting engineer and the loan recipient, less
                  any retainage. Such requested payment amounts are subject to verification
                  by the Department staff.

           (e)    Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
                  loan agreement execution, provided the Department has approved the
                  purchase price and provided the loan recipient has submitted a bonafide
                  option to purchase within 30 days after purchase of the loan eligible real
                  property, clear title certification forms from both the loan recipient and the
                  title counsel shall be submitted to the Department.,

     (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by
           Department staff to be for costs not in accordance with the SRF loan agreement,
           for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for related to waste, fraud, abuse or illegal
           acts under state of federal law, shall be repaid to the SRF fund with 30 days of
           such notification by the Department staff. Interest may be charged on such
           delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a rate of ten (10)
           percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the Department staff
           may withhold such amounts form subsequent payment requests.

H.   SRF Loan Repayment Requirements. All SRF loan repayment agreements will be
     processed under the following requirements:

     (1)   Interest on paid amounts will commence on the original construction contract
           completion date.

     (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the original construction contract
           completion date and the initiation of the repayment process will be added to the
           final allowable project costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the
           loan recipient.


                                           235
(3)   The term of the loan will be from the time of transmittal of the final loan
      repayment agreement to the loan recipient to the date 20 years after project
      completion. Project completion is defined as the date of the final construction
      inspection by the Department staff.

(4)   Repayments are to be made on a monthly basis through state sales tax
      withholding or submission of monthly payments in accordance with state law and
      shall commence no sooner than 90 days after and no later than one year after the
      final construction inspection by the Department staff.

(5)   The repayment interest rate and frequency of interest compounding will be
      established in SRF loan agreement and repayment agreement.

(6)   Should a loan recipient desire to prepay the SRF loan prior to expiration of the
      repayment period, the remaining principal to be repaid will be calculated
      assuming all previous repayments included a fixed principal amount equal to the
      total loan amount divided by the number of repayments in the repayment
      agreement.

Source: Miss. Code Ann, §§ 49-17-61 through 49-17-70, 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-
       2-1, et seq., and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                    236
                                        APPENDIX A

                        Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

Eligible and allowable costs under SRF loan agreements will be as described in the EPA
publication Handbook of Procedures, Chapter IX, with the following exceptions:

       1.     Federal procurement requirements do not apply. State law applies as further
              described in Appendix D of this regulation.

       2.     Reserve capacity within the design period (up to 20 years) is an eligible cost.
              Reserve capacity for interceptors, pumping stations, and force mains within a
              design period of up to 40 years is an eligible cost.

       3.     On wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to unsewered residences,
              public buildings and businesses, the service line between the public sewer and the
              point five (5) feet from the outside wall of residences and public buildings are
              eligible. Service lines for businesses are eligible between the public sewer and
              the property line of the business.

       4.     Construction work and construction related work which occurs by the date
              representing a 25% time extension to the original construction contract time is
              eligible. Construction work and construction related work which occurs after this
              date is eligible only to the extent approved by the Department staff pursuant to a
              review of the justification for all time extensions.

       5.     Costs for facilities planning and design are allowable up to the amount of the
              allowance determined by Appendix B, Table 1 of this regulation. Costs for
              construction phase services are allowable up to the amount of the allowance
              determined by Appendix B, Table 2 of this regulation, and as supported by
              invoices for costs incurred in accordance with the contracts for such services and
              to the extent such services are allocable to the SRF project.

       6.     On sewer system rehabilitation projects, the rehabilitation of service lines for
              residences and public buildings is eligible between the public sewer and the point
              five (5) feet from the outside wall of residences and public buildings. Such
              rehabilitation on service lines for businesses is eligible between the public sewer
              and the property line of the business.

       7.     Eligible costs include costs for the implementation of a non-point source
              management program established under Section 319 of the Act, and for
              development and implementation of an estuary conservation and management
              plan under Section 320 of the Act. Eligible and allowable costs will be
              determined in accordance with this Appendix.

       8.     Eligible costs include the costs of planning, design and construction of publicly
              owned and operated wastewater treatment and transportation facilities for the

                                              237
      purpose of serving industrial users. Eligible and allowable costs will be
      determined in accordance with this Appendix.

9.    Eligible costs include the costs of planning, design, and construction of treatment
      and transportation facilities for control of pollutant discharges from a separate or
      combined storm sewer system. Eligible and allowable costs will be determined in
      accordance with this Appendix.

10.   Eligible costs will be determined without regard to any previous EPA grant or
      SRF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or rehabilitated,
      except as described in Rule 4.2.I(1)(g).

11.   Eligible costs include any administration fee charged to the loan recipient by the
      Department, as established in the Intended Use Plan under which the project is
      funded.




                                      238
                                           APPENDIX B

       Allowance for Facilities Planning, Design and Construction Phase Services

The allowance for facilities planning and design will be determined using Table 1 of this
Appendix. Projects for which the loan recipient must acquire easements or real property in
accordance with the federal Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act may
receive an additional 1% above the percentages shown in Table 1 for the planning and design
allowance. Projects for which a value engineering study is conducted may receive an additional
1% above the percentages shown in Table 1 for the planning and design allowance.

The allowance for construction phase services (includes costs for construction engineering,
resident observation, project administration, legal work, and all other costs for work, other than
construction, performed in relation to the project) will be determined using Table 2 of this
Appendix.

The estimated and final allowances will be determined in accordance with this Appendix and
Tables 1 and 2. All allowance percentages will be calculated to four decimal places using linear
interpolation. The amount of the allowance is computed by applying the resulting allowance
percentage to the initial allowable building cost. The initial allowable building cost is the initial
allowable cost of erecting, altering, remodeling, improving, or extending a treatment works,
whether accomplished through subagreement or force account. Specifically, the initial allowable
building cost is the allowable cost of the following:

       a.      The initial award amount of all prime subagreements for building the project.

       b.      The initial amounts approved for force account work performed in lieu of
               awarding a subagreement for building the project.

       c.      The purchase price of eligible real property.

The estimated allowances are to be based on the estimate of the initial allowable building cost.
The final allowances will be determined one time only for each project, based on the initial
allowable building cost, and will not be adjusted for subsequent cost increases or decreases.

The allowance Tables are not intended to be used to determine the compensation for facilities
planning services, design services, or construction phase services. Compensation for these
services should be based upon the nature, scope, and complexity of the services required by the
community. The actual compensation justified for a particular project may be more or less than
the amount of the allowance for these services.

Following execution of the SRF loan agreement, the loan recipient may request and receive
payment for the facilities planning and design allowance and the construction phase services
allowance in accordance with the procedures described in Rule 4.3.G. of this regulation.
Advances of allowances will not be provided.



                                                 239
                                        Table 1

                      Allowance for Facilities Planning and Design

 Allowable                                      Allowance as a Percentage
Building Cost                                       of Building Cost

$ 100,000 or less                                     14.4945%
$ 120,000                                             14.1146%
$ 150,000                                             13.6631%
$ 175,000                                             13.3597%
$ 200,000                                             13.1023%
$ 250,000                                             12.6832%
$ 300,000                                             12.3507%
$ 350,000                                             12.0764%
$ 400,000                                             11.8438%
$ 500,000                                             11.4649%
$ 600,000                                             11.1644%
$ 700,000                                             10.9165%
$ 800,000                                             10.7062%
$ 900,000                                             10.5240%
$ 1,000,000                                           10.3637%
$ 1,200,000                                           10.0920%
$ 1,500,000                                            9.7692%
$ 1,750,000                                            9.5523%
$ 2,000,000                                            9.3682%
$ 2,500,000                                            9.0686%
$ 3,000,000                                            8.8309%
$ 3,500,000                                            8.6348%
$ 4,000,000                                            8.4684%
$ 5,000,000                                            8.1975%
$ 6,000,000                                            7.9827%
$ 7,000,000                                            7.8054%
$ 8,000,000                                            7.6550%
$ 9,000,000                                            7.5248%
$10,000,000                                            7.4101%
$12,000,000                                            7.2159%
$15,000,000                                            6.9851%
$17,500,000                                            6.8300%
$20,000,000 or more                                    6.6984%




                                          240
                                      Table 2

                      Allowance for Construction Phase Services

 Allowable                                           Allowance as a Percentage
Building Cost                                            of Building Cost

$ 100,000 or less                                           23.0000%
$ 200,000                                                   19.5000%
$ 300,000                                                   17.5000%
$ 400,000                                                   16.0000%
$ 500,000                                                   14.8000%
$ 600,000                                                   14.0000%
$ 700,000                                                   13.3000%
$ 800,000                                                   12.7000%
$ 900,000                                                   12.1000%
$ 1,000,000                                                 11.7000%
$ 1,250,000                                                 10.8000%
$ 1,500,000                                                 10.1000%
$ 1,750,000                                                  9.7000%
$ 2,000,000                                                  9.5000%
$ 2,500,000                                                  9.1000%
$ 3,000,000                                                  8.9000%
$ 3,500,000                                                  8.8000%
$ 4,000,000                                                  8.6000%
$ 5,000,000                                                  8.3000%
$ 6,000,000                                                  8.1000%
$ 7,000,000                                                  7.9000%
$ 8,000,000                                                  7.8000%
$ 9,000,000                                                  7.7000%
$10,000,000                                                  7.6000%
$20,000,000 or more                                          6.6000%




                                        241
                                          APPENDIX C

                                 Environmental Review Process

Introduction

Each project which receives SRF funding will undergo a review to determine whether there will
be any significant adverse environmental impacts. It should be recognized that wastewater
treatment projects nearly always have a substantial beneficial impact.

For any project, one or more of the following environmental actions will be taken by the
Department:

       a.      Categorical Exclusion
       b.      Finding Of No Significant Impact on the Environment
       c.      Amendment to a Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment
       d.      Environmental Impact Statement
       e.      Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action
       f.      No Action

Categorical Exclusion

A project will receive categorical exclusion (CE) from environmental review if it meets all of the
following criteria:

       a.      The project will not create a new discharge or result in a significant relocation of
               an existing discharge.

       b.      The project will not substantially increase the volume of discharge or load of
               pollutants to the receiving stream.

       c.      The project will not have a significant adverse effect on the environment.

       d.      The action will not adversely affect cultural resources, habitats of endangered or
               threatened species, or environmentally important natural resource areas.

       e.      The action is cost effective and should cause no significant public controversy.

It is expected that most projects which include only sewer system rehabilitation will receive a
CE.

The CE will be issued to the appropriate contact agencies and will be published in the Jackson
Clarion-Ledger and an appropriate local newspaper. See Attachment 1.

The Department will generally wait 30 days after issuing a CE before funding a project.
However, funding may be awarded immediately after issuing a CE, if necessary.



                                                242
The Department may revoke a CE at any time if significant adverse information becomes
available.

Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment

If a project will not have any significant adverse environmental impact but does not qualify for a
CE, a finding of no significant impact (FONSI) will be issued, along with an environmental
assessment (EA). See Attachments 2 and 3.

The emphasis of the EA will be to summarize the need for the project (i.e., why the "no action"
alternative is not acceptable) and to discuss the environmental impacts of the chosen alternative.
The EA is not intended to be a summary of the facilities plan. The EA will not include a list of
items eligible for funding.

All alternatives that were studied will be listed, but only the no action alternative and the chosen
alternative will be described in detail. The reasons for choosing the chosen alternative will be
discussed.

The FONSI will be issued to the appropriate contact agencies and will be published in the
Jackson Clarion-Ledger and an appropriate local newspaper. See Attachment 2.

The Department will generally wait 30 days after issuing a FONSI before funding a project.
However, a facilities plan may be conditionally approved and a loan agreement may be
conditionally offered immediately after issuing the FONSI, if necessary. In such a case, no funds
will be transferred to the loan recipient and authority to award construction contracts will not be
given until the 30 day period has expired and all substantial adverse comments have been
addressed. There will be no exceptions.

Amendment to a Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment

FONSI amendments are occasionally needed to describe changes to proposed facilities that have
already been described in a FONSI. Attachment 2 shows the amendment format. The EA that
accompanies the amendment will describe the changes, the reasons for the changes, and any new
impacts on the environment due to the changes. The EA amendment is intended to be read in
conjunction with the original EA and is not a self supporting document. The original EA will be
reissued with the EA amendment in those cases where it is deemed to be necessary to assure
clarity.

The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for a FONSI.

Environmental Impact Statement

If the Department determines that an environmental impact statement (EIS) is needed, it will be
prepared in accordance with EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 6.




                                                243
Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action

If five years will have passed between the issuance of a CE, FONSI, Amendment to a FONSI, or
an EIS and the award of SRF funding, the environmental impact of the project will be
reevaluated.

If there have been no significant changes, the Department will issue a reaffirmation of the
environmental action. See Attachment 4. The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for
a CE.

If the original environmental action cannot be reaffirmed, the Department will issue a FONSI or
an Amendment, as appropriate. The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for a FONSI.

A reaffirmation will not be required when a FONSI is over five years old but the most recent
Amendment is less than five years old.

No Action

All SRF projects will receive a CE, FONSI, or EIS. If one of those documents has been issued
and there are then significant changes in the project, those changes will be described in an
Amendment. Some changes are minor, however, and the Department may determine that a
separate Amendment will not be needed. Such changes include, but are no limited to:

       a.      Addition of sewer system rehabilitation.

       b.      Changes in the size of pump stations, interceptors, or collectors.

       c.      Minor changes in the size of unit processes.

       d.      Minor rerouting of sewer lines when the new route i) will be mostly on public
               property, and ii) will not adversely affect cultural resources, habitats of
               endangered or threatened species, or environmentally important natural resource
               areas. All affected property owners must be notified by the loan recipient.

       e.      Changes in the average monthly user charge.

Public Participation

A loan recipient will be encouraged to hold a public hearing when the alternatives have been
determined but before a chosen alternative has been selected and will be required to hold a public
hearing before the facilities plan has been fully adopted. The hearings shall be advertised in the
Jackson Clarion-Ledger and an appropriate local newspaper at least 30 days before the hearing.
The recipient is also encouraged to notify local television and radio stations.

Topics to be discussed at the hearing include the facilities to be built, why they are needed,
where they will be built, how much they will cost, the average monthly user charge, and the
environmental impact.


                                                244
If a project change is significant enough to require a FONSI amendment, a new public hearing
will be required.

The recipient shall notify the public if the average monthly user charge will be substantially
greater (about 20% or more) than was presented at the public hearing. Notification may be made
in the newspaper or by a new public hearing.

Contact Agencies

Copies of all environmental actions will be sent to the appropriate contact agencies listed in
Attachment 3; other agencies will be contacted as needed. Comments from those agencies and
from the public will be carefully evaluated before finalizing any environmental action.

Resolution of Adverse Comments

Adverse comments received as a result of the environmental review process will be addressed in
the following manner:

       a.     The Department staff will first require the loan recipient to resolve the adverse
              comments, subject to Department staff approval.

       b.     If the loan recipient is unable to resolve the adverse comments and secure
              approval, the Department staff will render a decision concerning the adverse
              comments.

       c.     Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
              comments desire to appeal the above decision, a request for an informal hearing
              must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
              decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an informal hearing will be held with
              staff members, as designated by the Head of the Office of Pollution Control, and
              the affected parties. The Office Head, or his designee, will render a decision on
              the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       d.     Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
              comments desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a request for a
              formal hearing by the Department of Environmental Quality must be received by
              the Department within 30 days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of
              such a request, the Commission on Environmental Quality will hold a formal
              hearing to consider the matter, and will render a decision.

       e.     Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              245
            CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION FROM ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW

                                  (1) Recipient, Loan Number

                                            (2) Date

All projects funded under the Mississippi Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund Act undergo
a review to determine whether the proposed project will have a significant impact on the
environment. In making this determination, it is assumed that all of the facilities and actions
recommended in the facilities plan will be implemented.

The proposed project includes: *(3) new collectors, new interceptors, sewer system
rehabilitation, upgrading or expanding the existing treatment plant facilities.

The Mississippi Office of Pollution Control has determined that the proposed project meets the
criteria for receiving a categorical exclusion from further environmental review. However, this
determination can be revoked if significant adverse information becomes available. If you have
any comments regarding the proposed project, please send them to Mr. Mark Smith, Office of
Pollution Control, P.O. Box 2261, Jackson, MS 39225, phone (601) 961-5171 no later than (4)
date.

                                                    Sincerely,



                                                    Charles H. Chisolm
                                                    Office Head

Note: *(3) - Include as needed.




                                              246
            FINDING OF NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
                               *(1) AMENDMENT

                                   (2) Recipient, Loan Number

                                             (3) Date

All projects funded under the Mississippi Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund Act undergo
a review to determine whether the proposed project will have a significant impact on the
environment. In making this determination, it is assumed that all of the facilities and actions
recommended in the facilities plan will be implemented.

The proposed project includes: *(4) new collectors, new interceptors, sewer system
rehabilitation, upgrading or expanding the existing treatment facilities, building new treatment
facilities.

The Mississippi Office of Pollution Control has determined that the proposed project will not
have a significant adverse impact on the environment and consequently is issuing this finding of
no significant impact. However, this issuance can be revoked if significant adverse information
becomes available. An environmental assessment is available on request. If you have any
comments regarding the proposed project, please send them to Mr. Mark Smith, Office of
Pollution Control, P.O. Box 2261, Jackson, MS 39225, phone (601) 961-5171 no later than (5)
date.

                                                     Sincerely,



                                                     Charles H. Chisolm
                                                     Office Head

Note: *1 - Include if needed.
*4 - Include as needed.




                                               247
                        ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

                                Recipient , Loan Number

A.   Summary Data

     1.   Facilities to be Built
          New collectors, new interceptors, sewer system rehabilitation, upgrading or
          expanding existing treatment plant, building new treatment plant

     2.   Population and Flow

                                                               Current         Design
                                                               ( 19 )          ( 20 )

          Population in planning area
          Other pop. equivalent (specify)
          Total equivalent population

          Domestic wastewater flow, mgd
          Industrial wastewater flow, mgd
          I/I, mgd
          Other flow (specify), mgd
          Total flow, mgd

     3.   Project Costs
          Total project cost:    $
          Loan eligible cost:    $

     4.   Funding Sources
          SRF loan amount:                        $
          Monthly payment on SRF loan:            $
          Other sources (specify):                $
          Other monthly payments:                 $
          Total monthly payments:                 $

     5.   User Charges
          Average monthly user charge, based on           gallons per month:
          $         for debt retirement
          $         for OM&R
          $         total
          Median annual household income: $
          Average annual user charge will be          % of median income

     6.   NPDES Effluent Limits
                                                               Summer          Winter
          Flow, mgd
          BOD5, mg/l
                                            248
            NH3-N, mg/l
            DO, mg/l
            Residual Cl2, mg/l
            SS, mg/l
            FC, number/100 ml
            Receiving stream:

B.   Maps

     Include a map or maps showing the location of the existing and proposed WWTP
     and major interceptors. Maps showing the location of individual collection lines
     will not usually be included. A schematic diagram of the WWTP will be included only if
     a narrative description of the unit processes will not give an accurate picture of the
     facilities to be built.

C.   Existing Facilities

     Describe the existing collection and treatment facilities. Describe the loadings on the unit
     processes if the information is pertinent to the need for the proposed project.

D.   Need for the Project

     Explain why the existing facilities will not be able to protect human health or the
     environment at future design flow and loading when the facilities are operated according
     to optimum O & M procedures.

     In many cases the NPDES effluent limits will have been changed from secondary to
     tertiary limits. For example, if a town has an existing lagoon and the new limit requires a
     BOD of less than 30 mg/l, a simple statement that a lagoon cannot be expected to meet
     the new limit will establish a need.

     A letter from the Mississippi State Department of Health stating that an area has a
     significant number of failing septic tank systems and further stating that septic tank
     systems cannot be expected to work because of small lot sizes or low soil permeability
     will establish a need.

E.   Analysis of Alternatives

     Discuss why the no action alternative was not chosen. List, but do not discuss, all of the
     other alternatives that were studied. State which alternative was chosen. Describe why it
     was chosen. In many cases a simple statement that the chosen alternative has the lowest
     present worth, will meet the effluent limits, and is environmentally sound will be
     adequate.

F.   Proposed Facilities

     List the unit processes that will be used for wastewater and sludge treatment and describe
     any that are unusual. State the design flow.
                                             249
     State the number of lift stations and the approximate total length of the interceptors and
     collectors. State what areas of town, if any, will receive new collectors or sewer system
     rehabilitation. State what kind of collection system will be used: conventional gravity,
     small diameter gravity, pressure, etc.

     State what will be done with the existing facilities.

     State that the above sizes and quantities are planning level estimates and are subject to
     change during project design.

G.   Impact of the Chosen Alternative on the Environment

     Describe the impacts of the proposed alternative on the following items:

            1.      Land use practices and population growth
            2.      Surface water quality
            3.      Groundwater quality
            4.      Wetlands, wildlife preserves, prime agricultural lands, other environments
                    of special interest
            5.      Any other significant beneficial or adverse impacts

     The environmental assessment will state that short term dust, noise, and erosion occurring
     during construction will be minimized by using appropriate construction techniques. The
     environmental assessment will also state that all wastewater facilities occasionally
     produce objectionable odors, but that the facilities will be operated to minimize the
     occurrences of odor problems. For many projects, these will be the only adverse
     environmental impacts.

     Describe any actions that must be taken to mitigate other adverse impacts on the
     environment. State when the actions must be accomplished, if appropriate. Describe any
     actions that have already been taken by the time of FONSI issuance, if appropriate.

H.   Public Participation and Agencies Consulted

     Summarize the public hearing, emphasizing any public approvals or objections.
     List the public agencies consulted about the project. The following agencies will be
     consulted on most projects:

            1.      United States Army Corps of Engineers
            2.      United States Soil Conservation Service
            3.      Mississippi State Department of Health
            4.      Mississippi Department of Wildlife Conservation




                                              250
       5.     Mississippi Department of Archives and History
       6.     Mississippi Department of Finance and Administration
              (State Clearinghouse)

State that the Environmental Assessment was prepared by the Department based on
information in the SRF facilities plan as prepared by the loan recipient.




                                     251
                                                                    Attachment 4 to Appendix C

                    REAFFIRMATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION

                                   (1) Recipient, Loan Number

                                             (2) Date

All projects funded under the Mississippi Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund Act undergo
a review to determine whether the proposed project will have a significant impact on the
environment. In making this determination, it is assumed that all of the facilities and actions
recommended in the facilities plan will be implemented.

The proposed project includes: *(3) new collectors, new interceptors, sewer system
rehabilitation, upgrading or expanding the existing treatment facilities, building new treatment
facilities.

The Mississippi Office of Pollution Control has reaffirmed the *(4) finding of no significant
impact on the environment/categorical exclusion from further environmental review that was
originally issued on (5) date. However, this reaffirmation can be revoked if significant adverse
information becomes available. If you have any comments regarding the proposed project,
please send them the Mr. Mark Smith, Office of Pollution Control, P.O. Box 2261, Jackson, MS
39225, phone (601) 961-5171 no later than (6) date.

                                                     Sincerely,



                                                     Charle H. Chisolm
                                                     Office Head

Note: *(3) - Include as needed.
*(4) - Choose one.




                                               252
                                                                                 Amended 04/27/95
                                                                                 Effective 06/01/95

                                           APPENDIX D

                       Procurement Requirements for SRF Loan Recipients

In the procurement of all construction, equipment, material, supplies, professional services and
non-professional services and all other costs related to the SRF project, all loan recipients shall
comply with all applicable sections of the Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated.

If funds will be received from other agencies, the loan recipient shall review that agency's
procurement requirements and follow whichever is more stringent.

The procurement and conduct of all professional engineering and land surveying services shall
be in accordance with the Code of Conduct and other guidance and interpretations established by
the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.

The procurement of all construction contracts shall be in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the State Board of Contractors and other guidance and interpretations established
by the Mississippi State Board of Contractors.

All loan recipients shall submit a procurement certification, as required by the Department staff,
indicating that all of the above referenced requirements have been met. Should it be determined
that any of the procurement requirements are violated, the Department may determine that the
related costs are unallowable and may require repayment of all SRF Loan funds paid for such
costs, in accordance with Rule 4.3.G.(6). of the SRF regulations.




                                                253
                                         APPENDIX E

       SRF Minority and Women's Business Enterprise Requirements (MBE/WBE)

EPA has determined that requirements for the participation of minority and women owned
businesses will apply to SRF assistance in an amount equal to the state capitalization grants. To
attain compliance with MBE/WBE requirements, the State and EPA shall negotiate an overall
"fair share" objective for MBE/WBE participation on the SRF funded activities. A fair share
objective should be based on the amount of the state capitalization grant award or other state
established goals or standards. This fair share objective will be accomplished by requiring all
such projects funded with SRF assistance to undertake the six affirmative steps described in
federal regulation 40 CFR, Part 33.240.

For convenience, this federal regulation is included below as a part of Appendix E:

       Section 33.240: Small, minority, women's, and labor surplus area businesses.

       (a)     It is EPA policy to award a fair share of subagreements to small, minority, and
               women's businesses. The recipient must take affirmative steps to assure that
               small, minority, and women's businesses are used when possible as sources of
               supplies, construction and services. Affirmative steps shall include the following:

               (1)    Including qualified small, minority, and women's businesses on
                      solicitation lists;

               (2)    Assuring that small, minority, and women's businesses are solicited
                      whenever they are potential sources;

               (3)    Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into small tasks
                      or quantities to permit maximum participation of small, minority, and
                      women's businesses;

               (4)    Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirements of the work
                      permit, which will encourage participation by small, minority, and
                      women's businesses;

               (5)    Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration
                      and the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the U.S. Department of
                      Commerce, as appropriate; and

               (6)    If the contractor awards subagreements, requiring the contractor to take
                      the affirmative steps in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this Rule.

       (b)     {Reserved}




                                               254
       (c)    EPA encourages recipients to procure supplies and services from labor surplus
              area firms.

Minority and women's business enterprises must comply with the definitions contained in federal
regulation 40 CFR, Part 33.005.




                                             255
                                           APPENDIX F

                                    Debarment and Suspension

SRF loan recipients are prohibited from entering into contractual agreements with individuals or
organizations that have been debarred or suspended by the Environmental Protection Agency,
any other federal or state agency, or by the Department. Individuals and/or businesses that have
been debarred or suspended are identified in the General Services Administration (GSA)
publication entitled "List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement or Nonprocurement
Program." This list, along with information concerning debarment and suspension actions by the
State, is available from the Office of Pollution Control.

The loan recipient is responsible for ensuring that the prime contractor utilized on the project is
not on the federal or state debarment lists. Likewise, the prime contractor is responsible for
ensuring that the subcontractors utilized on the project are not on the federal or state debarment
lists.

Anyone may contact the Executive Director concerning the existence of a cause for debarment or
suspension. The Executive Director may refer the matter to the State Attorney General or other
appropriate office for further investigation. If, after review or investigation, the Executive
Director reasonably believes that a cause for debarment exists, the Executive Director may
propose debarment or suspension and may initiate procedures similar to, but not necessarily
identical to, federal regulation 40 CFR, Part 32: Debarment and Suspension Under EPA
Assistance Programs.

Such above described debarment or suspension actions shall not affect existing executed
contractual agreements, unless such agreements have been terminated or suspended under the
terms of the agreement by the loan recipient.




                                                256
                                        APPENDIX G

                                   SRF Disputes Procedures

Only SRF loan recipients may submit a notice of dispute (disagreement) with a decision made by
the Department, with the exception of that allowed by the resolution of adverse comments
procedures included within the environmental review process of Appendix C. The following
procedures will be used to resolve disputes between the loan recipient and the Department:

       a.     The loan recipient must submit a written notice of dispute with a Department
              decision, including a summary of the dispute and reasons for why the loan
              recipient believes the Department decision should be reversed.

       b.     The Department staff will then render a written decision on the dispute and will
              include reasons for the decision.

       c.     Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the Department staff decision, a request
              for an informal hearing must be received by the Department within 30 days after
              the date of the Department staff decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an
              informal hearing will be held with staff members, as designated by the Head of
              the Office of Pollution Control, and the affected parties. The Office Head, or his
              designee, will render a decision on the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       d.     Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a
              request for a formal hearing before the Commission on Environmental Quality
              must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
              decision. Upon receipt of such a request, the Commission on Environmental
              Quality will hold a formal hearing to consider the matter, and will render a
              decision.

       e.     Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              257
                                          APPENDIX H

                           Cross-Cutting Federal Laws and Authorities

A number of other federal laws and authorities that are not included in the list of federal Title II
requirements outlined in Section II.G. of this regulation also apply to projects and activities
funded by funds directly made available by capitalization grants to the state. These other federal
laws and authorities apply by virtue of their own authority and are referred to as cross-cutting
federal laws and authorities and are listed below:

Environmental:

-      Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, PL 93-291

-      Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7506(c)

-      Coastal Barrier Resources Act, 16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq..

-      Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, PL 92-583, as amended

-      Endangered Species Act 16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq..

-      Executive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment

-      Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management

-      Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands

-      Farmland Protection Policy Act, 7 U.S.C. 4201 et seq..

-      Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, PL 85-624, as amended

-      National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, PL 89-665, as amended

-      Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1424 (e), PL 92-523, as amended

-      Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, PL 90-542, as amended

-      Historic Sites Act of 1935, PL 74-292

Economic:

-      Davis-Bacon Act and Associated Labor Laws

-      Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966, PL 89-754, as
       amended


                                                258
-      Section 306 of the Clean Air Act and Section 508 of the Clean Water Act, including
       Executive Order 11738, Administration of the Clean Air Act and the Federal Water
       Pollution Control Act with Respect to Federal Contracts, Grants, or Loans

Social Legislation:

-      Age Discrimination Act, PL 94-135

-      Civil Rights Act of 1964, PL 88-352

-      Section 13 of PL 92-500; Prohibition against sex discrimination under the Federal Water
       Pollution Control Act

-      Executive Order 11246, Equal Employment Opportunity

-      Executive Orders 11625 and 12138, Women's and Minority Business Enterprise

-      Rehabilitation Act of 1973, PL 93-112 (including Executive Orders 11914 and 11250)

Miscellaneous Authority:

-      Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, PL 91-646

-      Executive Order 12549 - Debarment and Suspension

           -      Tax Reform Act of 1986




                                             259
                                           APPENDIX I

                                     Waste, Fraud, and Abuse

It is the loan recipient's responsibility for preventing, detecting, and prosecuting waste, fraud,
abuse, and all other corrupt practices which occur in relation to the SRF loan project.

If the loan recipient becomes aware of allegations, evidence, or the appearance of corrupt
practices, the loan recipient must:

       a.      Immediately inform the Department in writing.

       b.      Promptly pursue available state and local legal,
               administrative, and contractual remedies.

The Department may disallow costs under the SRF loan agreement where it is determined that
such costs are related to waste, fraud, abuse or other corrupt practices. The Department may also
require repayment of SRF loan funds paid for such costs in accordance with Rule 4.3.G.(6) of
this regulation.




                                                 260
                                        APPENDIX J

                   SRF Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Procedures

All SRF loan recipients must maintain project accounts in accordance with generally accepted
government accounting standards, as defined by the Guidelines of the Municipal Accounting and
Audit Manual, as prescribed by the State Auditor's Office. Charges to the project account must
be properly supported, related to eligible construction costs, and documented by appropriate
records. These project accounts must be maintained as separate accounts.




                                             261
                                            APPENDIX K

                               Intergovernmental Review Process

The following outlines the Department's requirements for compliance with the
Intergovernmental Review Process for State Revolving Fund Loan Program projects in
Mississippi. These actions and deadlines are consistent with that required by the Priority
System. The intergovernmental review agencies are as follows:

       1.      Department of Archives and History (For Archaeological/Cultural Review)

       2.      Natural Heritage Program (For Vegetative/Wildlife Review)

       3.      Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (For Wetlands and
               Section 10 Review)

       4.      Bureau of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock County Projects
               Only; for Coastal Barriers Resources Act Review)

               U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock County Projects
               only; for Coastal Barriers Resources Act Review)

Addresses of these agencies are attached.

Facilities Planning

During preparation of the draft facilities plan, the appropriate intergovernmental review agencies
should be consulted about the proposed project area concerning the existence of any known or
possible archaeological/cultural sites, endangered vegetation/wildlife, wetlands, shellfish/coastal
program impacts, or coastal barriers resources impact, with their input addressed in the draft
facilities plan. If feasible, the project should avoid negative impacts on areas for which a
concern has been expressed by an intergovernmental review agency. If not feasible to avoid
negative impacts on these areas, the appropriate intergovernmental review agency should be
consulted concerning the probability of obtaining clearance to construct the selected plan.
Where an agency expresses substantial concern that clearance of the selected plan may not be
obtained, appropriate modification, mitigation, and/or other sites should be pursued in
coordination with the Department and the appropriate agency prior to submission of the draft
facilities plan. This effort should avoid completion of a draft facilities plan which may not later
receive intergovernmental review clearance. However, it should be recognized that subsequent
surveys, applications, or other information may result in further intergovernmental review
agency concerns which must be addressed prior to clearance.

By the deadline for the draft facilities plan to be submitted to the Department of Environmental
Quality, the draft facilities plan shall also be submitted to the appropriate intergovernmental
review agencies with a request for written comments and a determination on the need for


                                               262
archaeological/cultural surveys, vegetative/wildlife surveys, Section 404/Section 10 Permits,
Bureau of Marine Resources Permits, or other actions. The draft facilities plan or the transmittal
letter shall include a map showing the proposed construction and the land use (i.e. residential,
commercial, industrial, farmland, pasture, wooded, wetlands, or other) in the areas of
construction. It is strongly suggested that photographs of the areas of construction also be
included in order to expedite these determinations. The Department of Environmental Quality
must be copied on the transmittal letters (including all attached maps, photographs, etc.) to all
intergovernmental review agencies. These agencies should provide written comments and a
determination on the need for archaeological/cultural surveys, vegetative/wildlife surveys,
Section 404/Section 10 Permits, Bureau of Marine Resources Permits, or other actions.

The completed facilities plan shall contain all intergovernmental review agency comments,
public hearing comments, plan revisions pursuant to comments, and a summary of how each
comment was addressed.

Design

At least 90 days prior to the deadline for submission of plans, specifications, and contract
documents to the Department of Environmental Quality, completed archaeological/cultural
surveys shall be submitted to the State Department of Archives and History for approval;
completed vegetative/wildlife surveys shall be submitted to the Natural Heritage Program for
approval; and completed Section 404/Section 10 permit applications shall be submitted to the
Army Corps of Engineers (and the Bureau of Marine Resources for Jackson, Harrison, and
Hancock County projects). However, surveys and/or permit applications do not need to be
performed or submitted if the appropriate intergovernmental review agency has determined they
are not required. The Department of Environmental Quality shall be copied on the transmittal
letters to the intergovernmental review agencies.

By the deadline for submission of the plans, specifications, and contract documents to the
Department of Environmental Quality, approved archaeological/cultural surveys, approved
vegetative/wildlife surveys, and copies of the issued Section 404/Section 10 permits and Bureau
of Marine Resources Permits shall be submitted to the Department of Environmental Quality, if
required for the project. Evidence of approval from the appropriate intergovernmental review
agencies shall be included with the survey documents when submitted to the Department of
Environmental Quality.

Loan Application

At least 60 days prior to the deadline for submission of the SRF loan application to the
Department of Environmental Quality, a completed SRF loan application form, a brief narrative
describing the project, a map showing the location of all proposed construction, the
archaeological/cultural and vegetative/wildlife survey approval letters, and copies of the issued
Section 404/Section 10 Permits and Bureau of Marine Resources Permits (or letters stating that
surveys or permits are not required) shall be submitted to both the Department of Finance and
Administration, Office of Policy Development and New Initiatives, and the local Planning and
Development District. The Office of Policy Development and New Initiatives will solicit


                                               263
comments from agencies and other interested parties and will provide the applicant with a
clearance form, as appropriate.

The clearance form from the Office of Policy Development and New Initiatives, along with any
comments received, shall be submitted to the Department of Environmental Quality by the
deadline for submission of the SRF loan application.




                                              264
1.   State Historic Preservation Officer            5.   U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service
     Attention: Interagency Coordinator                  Post Office Drawer 1190
     Mississippi Department of Archives and History      Daphne, Alabama 36526
     Jackson, Mississippi 39205                          Telephone: 205/690-2181
     Telephone: 601/359-6940

2.   Natural Heritage Program                       6.   Department of Finance and
     Natural Science Museum                              Administration
     Natural Science Museum                              Office of Policy Development and
     111 North Jefferson Street                          New Initiatives
     Jackson, Mississippi 39202                          455 North Lamar Street
     Telephone: 601/395-7226                             Jackson, Mississippi 39202
                                                         Telephone: 601/359-6765
                                                         (This is the State Clearinghouse)
3.   Department of the Army
     Mobile District, Corps of Engineers
     Regulatory Functions Branch
     Post Office Box 2288
     Mobile, Alabama 36628
     Telephone: 334/694-3781

     Department of the Army
     Vicksburg District, Corps of Engineers
     Regulatory Functions Branch
     Post Office Box 60
     Vicksburg, Mississippi 39180
     Telephone: 601/631-5289

     Department of the Army
     Nashville District, Corps of Engineers
     Regulatory Functions Branch
     Post Office Box 1070
     Nashville, Tennessee 37202
     Telephone: 615/251-5181

     Department of the Army
     Memphis District, Corps of Engineers
     Regulatory Functions Branch
     B-202 Clifford Davis Federal Building
     Telephone: 901/521-3471

4.   Bureau of Marine Resources
     2620 West Beach Boulevard
     Biloxi, Mississippi 39531
     Telephone; 228/385-5860




                                              265
     PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS IN THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI

Central Mississippi Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 4935
Jackson, Mississippi 39216
Executive Director: Clarke Holmes                           Telephone: 981-1511

East Central Mississippi Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 499
Newton, Mississippi 39345
Executive Director: Colbert Crowe                           Telephone: 683-2007

Golden Triangle Planning & Development District
Post Office Drawer DN
Mississippi State, Mississippi 39762
Executive Director: John Allbritton                         Telephone: 325-3855

North Central Mississippi Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 688
Winona, Mississippi 38967
Executive Director: Bob Williamson                          Telephone: 283-2675

North Delta Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 1244
Clarksdale, Mississippi 38614
Executive Director: Leonard Morris                          Telephone: 627-3401

Northeast Mississippi Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 600
Booneville, Mississippi 38829
Executive Director: Eugene Taylor                           Telephone: 728-6248

South Delta Planning & Development District
Post Office Box 1776
Greenville, Mississippi 38702-1776
Executive Director: Billy Haney                             Telephone: 378-3831

Southern Mississippi Planning & Development District
1020 32nd Avenue
Gulfport, Mississippi 39501
Executive Director: Leslie Newcomb Telephone: 868-2311

Southwest Mississippi Planning & Development District
110 South Wall Street
Natchez, Mississippi 39120
Executive Director: Wirt Peterson                           Telephone: 446-6044


                                              266
Three Rivers Planning & Development District
99 Center Ridge Drive
Pontotoc, Mississippi 38863
Executive Director: Randy Kelley                 Telephone: 489-2415




                                           267
                                          APPENDIX L

                              SRF Procurement Protest Procedures

This Appendix sets forth the process for the resolution of procurement protests filed with the
loan recipient by an adversely affected party.

       (a)     Prior to advertisement for such awards, the loan recipient shall establish its own
               procedures for prompt consideration of initial protests concerning solicitations or
               subagreement awards. A "protest" is a written complaint concerning the
               recipient's solicitation or award of a subagreement. It must be filed with the
               recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a
               recipient's procurement action, and must be filed in accordance with and within
               the time frame established by the recipient's protest procedures.

       (b)     Any party which transmits any document concerning the protest during the course
               of a protest and protest resolution must simultaneously furnish all other affected
               parties and the Department with a copy of all documents in the transmittal.

       (c)     Upon receipt of a protest, the loan recipient must make a determination on the
               protest in accordance with the recipient’s protest procedures within thirty (30)
               days after such receipt, or sooner if so required by the recipient’s procurement
               protest procedures.

       (d)     The party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan recipient’s
               determination of the protest may appeal such a determination only through the
               appropriate court of competent jurisdiction, provided such appeal is initiated
               within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of determination.

       (e)     Any delay due to a protest or protest resolution will not relieve the loan recipient
               of the requirement to meet the project schedule established in the loan agreement,
               nor will such delays prevent the Department from pursuing the remedies for
               default established in the loan agreement.




                                                268
                                         APPENDIX M

                              Related State Laws and Regulations

The loan recipient shall comply with the following related state laws and regulations during the
planning, design, construction, and operation of the project.

       -       Mississippi Regulations for the Certification of Municipal and Domestic
               Wastewater Facility Operators

       -       Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters

       -       Mississippi Nonhazardous Waste Management Regulations

       -       Coastal Wetlands Protection Law, Mississippi Code Annotated, Section 49-27-1
               (Supp. 1989), et seq..

       -       Mississippi Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and Control
               of Air Contaminants.




                                               269
                                          APPENDIX N

                             NPDES and Siting Criteria Regulations

The loan recipient shall insure that all current regulations of the Commission on Environmental
Quality and the Environmental Quality Permit Board are complied with during the planning,
design, and construction of the SRF loan project. These regulations include "Wastewater Permit
Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), Underground and
Injection Control (UIC) and State Operating Permits" and "Guidelines for Review of Siting
Criteria in Applications for Air and Water Pollution Control Permits". It is the loan recipient's
responsibility to insure that the project is in compliance with these regulations and all future
amendments. Also, the loan recipient shall comply with the following requirements:

       1.      All planning documents submitted to the Department for review shall clearly
               indicate that a 150-foot buffer zone between the treatment facility and the nearest
               adjoining property line is provided. This shall be shown on a plan view of the
               treatment facility site. If it is not possible to provide a 150-foot buffer zone, the
               planning document shall indicate that a written waiver from the adjoining
               property owners will be necessary.

       2.      All design plans submitted to the Department for review shall clearly display the
               150-foot buffer zone. If it is not possible to provide a 150-foot buffer zone, a
               written waiver from the adjoining property owners shall also accompany the
               design plans. When a waiver is necessary, it is strongly suggested that this be
               obtained prior to substantial work on the treatment facility design.

               An NPDES permit application shall accompany all design plans for wastewater
               treatment facilities, if a permit or permit modification is required.

       3.      All appraisals, negotiations, purchase agreements, and site certificates shall
               include the required buffer zones, unless a waiver was previously submitted along
               with the design plans.




                                                270
Part 6, Chapter 5: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Water Pollution
Control Emergency Loan Fund Program Regulations

                             TABLE of CONTENTS
__________________________________

Rule 5.1 Introductory Provisions

Rule 5.2 Program Requirements

Rule 5.3 Project Requirements

Appendices
A.    Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

B.     Procurement Requirements for WPCELF Loan Recipients

C.     Debarment and Suspension

D.     WPCELF Disputes Procedures

E.     Waste, Fraud and Abuse

F.     WPCELF Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements

G.     Intergovernmental Review Process

H.     WPCELF Procurement Protest Process

I.     Related Laws and Regulations

Rule 5.1 Introductory Provisions.

A.     Scope of Regulations. These regulations, adopted pursuant to Section 49-17-86,
       Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, will govern the Water Pollution Control
       Emergency Loan Fund (WPCELF) Program. These regulations may be superseded by the
       WPCELF loan agreement when a variance or exception is made by the Department and
       when not in conflict with any state or federal laws or executive orders.

B.     Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in these regulations, will have
       the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

       (1)    Act - The Mississippi Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund and
              Emergency Loan Fund Act, Sections 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, Mississippi
              Code of 1972, as amended.



                                             271
(2)    Administration Fee - Those fees collected from the loan recipient to defray
       the reasonable costs of administering the emergency fund.

(3)    Allowable Costs - Those project costs that are eligible, reasonable,
       necessary, allocable to the project, within the established project scope and
       budget period, in conformance with the WPCELF Regulations, and
       determined allowable by the Department.

(4)    Authorized Representative - The signatory agent or office of the applicant,
       authorized and directed by the applicant's governing body to make
       application for assistance and to sign documents required to undertake and
       complete the project on behalf of the applicant. The signatory agent or
       office must be a member of, or an employee of, the applicant's governing
       body and may not be under a separate contract with the applicant at any
       time during the execution of the project.

(5)    Budget Period - The time frame identified in the loan agreement as such,
       during which allowable costs may be incurred.

(6)    Change Order - The documents, including supporting documentation,
       executed by the loan recipient and the construction contractor, upon
       recommendation of the engineer if required by the contract documents,
       authorizing a change, alteration, or variance in the plans, specifications,
       and contract documents, including but not limited to, additions or
       deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract or a change in
       costs or time for work performed after the execution of the contract.(7)

(7)    Collector Sewer - The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned
       treatment system, which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters directly
       from facilities which convey wastewater from individual systems,
       or from private property.

(8)    Commission - The Commission on Environmental Quality or its
       successors.

(9)    Consolidation project - The acquisition of an existing entity or its
       treatment works by another or the merger of two entities.

(10)   Construction - Any one or more of the following: repair, erection,
       building, acquisition, alteration, improvement or extension of water
       pollution control systems.

(11)   Contract - The contracting agreement made between the loan recipient and
       any other party, whether by written contract, quote, invoice, work order, or
       other legal arrangement, which establishes the parties to the agreement,
       the scope and price of goods or services to be provided, the timeframe for


                                        272
       performance, and any other provisions required by these regulations
       and/or state law.

(12)   Contractor - The individual, company, party or other business enterprise
       awarded a contract by the loan recipient to construct any part of the
       project, or to supply materials, labor, equipment, or other necessary goods
       or services for the project. Contractor is not the same as Engineer,
       consultant, attorney, or other person or company providing professional
       services in conjunction with the project

(13)   Department - Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality and staff,
       and their designated representatives or successors.

(14)   Eligible Applicant - Any county, municipality, municipal public utility,
       district, authority, political subdivision or other governmental unit created
       under state law which has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater,
       industrial wastewater, wastewater sludges resulting from the treatment of
       such wastewater, stormwater, or nonpoint sources of pollution, has the
       authority under state law to receive WPCELF loan assistance, has the ability
       to comply with these regulations and the requirements of the WPCELF loan
       agreement, and which is not in arrears in repayments to the WPCRLF, the
       WPCELF or the WPALP.

(15)   Eligible Costs - Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCELF loan
       participation is authorized pursuant to applicable statute.

(16)   Emergency - Any circumstance caused by fire, flood, explosion, storm,
       earthquake, epidemic, riot, insurrection or caused by any inherent defect due to
       defective construction, or when the immediate preservation of public health or
       environmental protection is necessary by reason of unforeseen event or condition,
       or when the immediate restoration of a condition of usefulness or construction of
       any water pollution control facilities appears advisable, or as required by a
       pollution control or public health regulatory agency.

(17)   Emergency Fund or Fund - The Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan
       Fund, created pursuant to Section 49-17-86, Mississippi Code of 1972, as
       amended.

(18)   Engineer - Unless otherwise indicated, the engineer, or engineering firm,
       registered by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional
       Engineers and Land Surveyors, retained or employed by the loan recipient
       to provide professional engineering services during the planning, design
       and/or construction of the project.




                                       273
(19)   Executive Director - The executive director of the Department of
       Environmental Quality, or his designee.

(20)   Financial Assistance - Loans by the Commission, acting through the
       Department, from the Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

(21)   Financial Capability Summary - A financial analysis of a water pollution
       control system to determine whether the system has the capability to
       reliably meet the financial obligations on a long term basis.

(22)   Improvements - Includes making necessary repairs to existing water pollution
       control systems to meet the emergency and may include new construction needed
       to provide a permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency.

(23)   Infiltration - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
       sewer service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such
       means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does
       not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.

(24)   Inflow - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from
       sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area
       drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections
       between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm
       waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. Inflow does not include,
       and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(25)   Interceptor Sewer - A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:

       (1)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed
              collector sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or
              another interceptor or pump station.

       (2)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the
              wastes to an adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance
              to a treatment plant.

       (3)    To transport wastewater from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or system or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (4)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated
              wastewater for transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to
              a treatment plant.




                                       274
(26)   Interlocal Agreement - An agreement or contract between the loan
       applicant/recipient and other entities relating to use, enforcement, or finances of
       the project or treatment works, which may be necessary to ensure completion of a
       useful project.

(27)   Loan Agreement - A legal and binding agreement between the Department and
       the loan recipient through which the Department provides WPCELF funds for
       allowable assistance and the recipient promises to repay the principal sum and
       interest back to the WPCELF over a period not to exceed 10 years at an interest
       rate established by the Commission.

(28)   Loan Applicant - An eligible applicant, as defined above, that makes a WPCELF
       loan application for assistance from the Department.

(29)   Loan Recipient - An eligible applicant, as defined above, that receives a WPCELF
       loan from the Department.

(30)   May - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan recipient,
       the word "may" will be interpreted as optional but is not mandatory.

(31)   May not - Whenever used in the context of an action by the loan recipient, such
       an action is prohibited by these regulations.

(32)   Must - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan
       recipient, the word "must" will be interpreted as mandatory.

(33)   Nonpoint Source - Pollution caused by diffuse source(s) that are not regulated as
       point source(s) and normally is associated with agriculture, silviculture, urban
       runoff and runoff from construction activities, etc.

(34)   Overflows and Bypasses - Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or
       bypasses any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment
       and discharge in accordance with the permit.

(35)   Permit - Unless otherwise specified, the authority granted by the Mississippi
       Environmental Quality Permit Board or their designated staff to discharge treated
       wastewater into or adjacent to waters of the state in accordance with the
       stipulations of the relevant National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
       (NPDES) or State Operating Permit.

(36)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents - The engineering description of
       the project including engineering drawings, maps, technical specifications, design
       reports and construction contract documents in sufficient detail to allow
       contractors to adequately construct the work.




                                       275
(37)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents Addendum - Any change made to
       the Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents after advertisement of the
       documents for bidding, but prior to opening of the bids.

(38)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents Revision or Amendment . Any
       change made to the Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents after
       completion of the initial documents, but prior to advertisement of the documents
       for bidding.

(39)   Point Source - Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but
       not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure,
       container, concentrated animal feeding operation, vehicle, or vessel or other
       floating craft from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not
       include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated
       agriculture.

(40)   Project - The scope of work for which assistance is awarded under the WPCELF.

(41)   Project Completion - The date of the final construction observation, as performed
       by the Department, for the purpose of an allowability determination.

(42)   Protest - A written complaint to the loan recipient concerning the loan recipient's
       solicitation or award of a contract. The protest must be filed with the loan
       recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan
       recipient's procurement action.

(43)   Record Drawings - A final, post-construction set of reproducible design plans,
       revised to describe the project as it was actually constructed, including all
       revisions, addenda, change orders and field changes that affect items shown on
       the drawings.

(44)   Repayment - Principal and interest repayments on WPCELF loans as established
       in the loan agreement.

(45)   Service line - A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with minor
       quantities of infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from
       residences, public buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.

(46)   Sewer - Any pipe, conduit, or related appurtenance used to convey sewage or
       wastewater, including collectors, interceptors, force mains and service lines.

(47)   Title Counsel or Legal Counsel - The attorney(s) of record, legally practicing,
       who provide(s) legal advice and certifications relating to the project for the loan
       applicant/recipient.




                                        276
       (48)   Treatment Works (or Water Pollution Control System) - Any devices and systems
              which are used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of waste,
              including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping,
              power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
              remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a
              reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units; and any works, including
              site acquisition of the land used for or in connection with the treatment works; and
              any plant, disposal field, lagoon, canal, incinerator, or other facilities installed for
              the purpose of treating, neutralizing or stabilizing wastewater or nonpoint source
              pollution or facilities to provide for the collection, control and disposal of
              wastewater or nonpoint source pollution.

       (49)   Unilateral Change Order - Change order executed only by the loan recipient, and
              identified as such, in accordance with the contract documents.

       (50)   User Charge Ordinance - A legally enforceable ordinance, regulation or corporate
              resolution enacted by the loan recipient which includes, at least by reference, the
              User Charge System, and establishes user charge rates to generate adequate
              revenues to cover all costs of the treatment works, as required by the User Charge
              System.

       (51)   User Charge System - That system by which the loan recipient charges users of
              the treatment works, user rates that produce adequate revenues required for
              operation, maintenance, replacement of equipment, retirement of existing debt,
              and repayment of the WPCELF loan for the project.

       (52)   Water Pollution Control System - see "Treatment Works."

       (53)   Will - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan recipient,
              the word "will" is to be interpreted as mandatory.

       (54)   WPALP - Water Pollution Abatement Loan Program

       (55)   WPCELF - Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

       (56)   WPCRLF - Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 5.2 Program Requirements.

A.     Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
       must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Rule 5.1.B.(14) of these
       regulations, as determined by the Department.




                                                277
B.   WPCELF Uses. The Emergency Loan Fund may be used for the following purposes, as
     determined by the Commission:

     (1)    To make loans to eligible applicants for projects that meet the definition of an
            emergency, for the purpose of making necessary repairs to existing water
            pollution control systems to meet the emergency;

     (2)    To make loans to eligible applicants for projects that meet the definition of an
            emergency, for the purpose of completing construction needed to provide a
            permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency;

     (3)    For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCELF program, as allowed by
            state law; and

     (4)    To earn interest on fund accounts.

C.   Project Priority. These funds will be obligated on a first-come, first-served basis in order
     of those eligible applicants which complete all actions necessary to receive a loan award
     for eligible projects meeting the definition of an emergency, as defined in these
     regulations.

     The Executive Director will determine whether a proposed project meets the definition of
     an emergency project and whether all actions necessary for loan award have been
     completed.

D.   WPCELF Financing. The WPCELF has been established to provide loans to assist
     eligible applicants in making emergency repairs to existing water pollution control
     systems and may, with Department approval, include new construction needed to provide
     a permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency. Basic WPCELF
     financing requirements are as follows:

     (1)    WPCELF loans may not exceed $350,000, as established by state law

     (2)    Loans will be made at the interest rate(s), terms and amounts determined by the
            Commission, and as further established in the WPCELF loan agreement and
            repayment agreement.

     (3)    Periodic principal and interest repayments will commence as further described in
            Rule 5.3.F of these regulations, and all loans will be fully amortized not later
            than ten (10) years after project completion.

     (4)    Funds will not be disbursed from the emergency loan fund without first entering
            into a legal and binding loan agreement with the Commission.

     (5)    The fund will be credited with all repayments of principal and interest on all
            loans.


                                             278
       (6)    The applicant must not be in violation of, or delinquent on, any provisions of a
              previously awarded WPCELF, WPCRLF, or WPALP loan agreement.

       (7)    The applicant must submit a completed application and must, in a timely manner,
              secure approvals of all documents required by the Department.

       (8)    The applicant must establish a dedicated source of funds for repayment of the
              loan.

E.     Responsibility. The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for the proper planning,
       design, construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal
       integrity of the project. The Department's review or approval of any document does not
       relieve the applicant/loan recipient or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities.
       Department review or approval of any document is for loan eligibility/allowability
       purposes only and does not establish or transfer any such liability or responsibility.

F.     Other Approvals. The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary
       documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
       in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 5.3 Project Requirements

A.     Application for WPCELF Loan

       (1)    Obtaining a Loan Application. Potential applicants may request a WPCELF loan
              application package by contacting the Department. The Department will transmit
              the loan application package to the potential applicant.

       (2)    Budget Period. Costs for the project must be incurred within the Budget Period
              established in the loan agreement. When justified and when approved by the
              Department, the Budget Period may begin prior to loan award but may not begin
              more than 90 days prior to the issuance of a funding pre-commitment letter or
              receipt of the loan application by the Department. If project costs are incurred
              prior to loan offer, the prospective loan recipient agrees that he is proceeding at
              his own risk and relieves the Commission, the Department, and the Department
              staff of all responsibility and liability should such costs later be determined
              unallowable or should such funding not become available for any reason.

              The end of the Budget Period will coincide with the 30 day deadline described in
              Rule 5.3.D.(2) of these regulations.

       (3)    Contents of Application. All documents listed below must be complete and
              approvable when submitted to the Department.


                                               279
An original WPCELF loan application package must be submitted to the
Department. When forms are provided by the Department these forms must be
used, and these forms may not be altered. The WPCELF loan application may
request assistance only for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendix
A of these regulations and may include a construction contingency, as determined
by the Department, in the project budget. The application must include in the
Project Budget any administration fee charged to the loan recipient by the
Department. A complete application must conform to these regulations, including
all Appendices, and must include the following:

(a)    A completed WPCELF loan application form, which includes the amounts
       requested for construction, repairs, equipment, supplies, land/easements,
       testing contracts, contingency, contracts for planning, design, land
       acquisition, legal, engineering and other professional services during
       construction and any required administration fees.

(b)    A certified copy of a resolution by the loan applicant's governing body
       which:

       (1)    declares the existence of an emergency, which meets the definition
              of an emergency as defined in Rule 5.1.B.(16) of these
              regulations;

       (2)    agrees to implement, prior to final disbursement of
              WPCELF funds, an approved user charge system, as defined in
              Rule.5.1.B.(51)of these regulations, adequate to completely cover
              all costs, including repayment of the WPCELF loan;

       (3)    authorizes and designates an individual or office to serve as the
              authorized representative, to make application for assistance, and
              to sign documents required to undertake and complete the project
              on behalf of the applicant.

(c)    A report including a clear description of the emergency, the recommended
       course of action, and the estimated costs and schedule to remedy the
       emergency from the certified operator or engineer or other qualified
       personnel (i.e., contractor, equipment representative, electrician, etc.). If
       such project must be designed by a registered engineer in accordance with
       state law and the Rules and Regulations of the Mississippi State Board of
       Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, the report
       must include the seal of the engineer who prepared the report.

(d)    Engineer's plans and specifications, if applicable.




                                280
          (e)   A procurement certification from the loan applicant and the loan
                applicant's legal counsel, stating that all procurement actions related to the
                WPCELF loan project have been, and will be, in compliance with state
                law and Appendix B of these regulations.

          (f)   A draft user charge system and ordinance. The ordinance implementing
                this user charge system must be enacted prior to final disbursement of
                WPCELF loan funds and by the date established in the WPCELF loan
                agreement.

          (g)   A statement of the amount of all local funds necessary for the project and
                a financial certification from the loan applicant which states that all local
                funds necessary for the project have been secured, or will be secured
                within 30 days after loan offer, and a statement to this effect from the
                funding source(s). If all funds for the project are being requested from the
                WPCELF program, this certification need not be submitted.

          (h)   A completed financial capability summary.

          (i)   A legal certification from the loan applicant and the loan applicant's legal
                counsel, stating that (1) the loan applicant has authority under state laws
                and regulations to receive WPCELFloan assistance, to collect user charges
                through an approved user charge ordinance, to enforce the user charge
                ordinance and sewer use ordinance, to repay the loan under the terms of
                the loan agreement, to comply with all other terms of the loan agreement,
                to own, operate, maintain and replace the facilities to be constructed with
                WPCELF loan funds, and that (2) there are no restrictions under federal or
                state laws or regulations which may prevent the loan applicant from
                executing the WPCELF loan agreement and implementing the project.

          (j)   If new real property or easements are necessary to construct the project,
                clear site certificates from the loan applicant and the title counsel
                indicating that the loan applicant has secured all such real property and
                easements (including power and other utilities).

          (k)   Completion of the intergovernmental review process as described in
                Appendix G of these regulations, and submittal of a completed
                intergovernmental review certification, any intergovernmental review
                agency comments received, and the action required to address all
                comments prior to awarding contracts for construction.

          (l)   All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information that may
                be required by the Department.

B.   Award of WPCELF Loan



                                         281
     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements
           of these regulations have been met, (b) all documents submitted with the
           application are approvable, (c) all applicable permits have been issued or
           will be issued, and (d) funds are available for the amount of the WPCELF
           loan application, the Executive Director will execute and transmit a
           WPCELF loan offer (includes an offer letter and loan agreement) to the
           loan recipient. In addition to the estimated allowable project costs as
           described in Appendix A of these regulations, the loan offer may include a
           construction contingency, as determined by the Department, in the project
           budget.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCELF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute
           and return it to the Department, along with a certified copy of a resolution,
           if not previously submitted, by the loan recipient's governing body
           authorizing acceptance of the loan offer within the time frame established
           in the WPCELF loan offer. The loan offer becomes void if not executed
           and returned within the time frame specified, unless extended by the
           Executive Director.

     (3)   Upon return of the executed WPCELF loan agreement to the Department,
           any administration fee established in the loan agreement will be processed
           accordingly and such fee will be paid to the appropriate Department
           administration fund.

C.   Construction Phase

     (1)   Schedule. The following submittals, approvals, and actions will be required
           during the construction phase of the project. The Department may establish other
           time frames within the loan agreement when properly justified.

           (a)    Within 30 days after the original loan offer all local funds necessary for
                  the project must be secured and proof of such must be submitted to the
                  Department.

           (b)    Within 90 days after the original loan offer, the loan recipient (1) must
                  execute and submit to the Department a copy of all contracts for
                  construction/ equipment/supplies and engineering planning/design and
                  construction phase services, including contracts for land acquisition, legal,
                  and other professional services, and must issue any remaining notices to
                  proceed, begin remaining construction work, begin purchase of any
                  remaining equipment/supplies funded under the loan agreement and
                  transmit a copy of all notices to proceed to the Department, and (2) if any
                  contracts must be bid, the loan recipient must also submit a completed
                  loan agreement amendment request (to reflect as-bid and other executed
                  construction contract amounts, all other executed contract amounts, a



                                           282
             construction contingency as determined by the Department, and any
             original administration fee) to the Department.

             The loan recipient will be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
             procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in awarding these
             contracts.

             After review, the Department will determine whether a request for an
             increased loan amount is justified and eligible and whether funds are
             available. The Department may, if determined necessary and appropriate,
             transmit to the loan recipient an amended WPCELF loan offer, which
             includes in the project budget (a) as-bid (if applicable) and other executed
             construction contract amounts, (b) all other contract amounts, (c) a
             construction contingency as determined by the Department, and (d) any
             original administration fee. Upon receipt of an amended WPCELF loan
             offer, the loan recipient must execute and return the agreement to the
             Department within the timeframe established in the WPCELF loan offer
             letter. After execution of the original loan agreement, or if applicable
             the amended WPCELF loan agreement, the WPCELF loan amount
             will not amount must be paid by the loan recipient from sources other
             than WPCELF funds.

(2)   Preconstruction Conferences. If determined necessary by the loan recipient, the
      loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and, if held,
      must notify and allow attendance and participation by the Department.

(3)   Observation During Construction. During all times that construction work is
      being performed which requires the services of a registered engineer, the loan
      recipient must provide for full-time observation of the project by the engineer or
      his staff and must require the engineer's assurance that the work is being
      performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the WPCELF loan
      agreement and the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents,
      approved change orders, and in accordance with sound engineering principles and
      construction practices. Less than full-time observation may be allowed when
      properly justified and approved by the Department.

      The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
      time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
      loan recipient is assuring that plans, specifications and contract documents are
      being followed. A representative may be stationed at the construction site by the
      Department. Such observation will not subject the Department to any action for
      damages or other liability. Such observation will not release the contractor from
      any obligation to perform the work in accordance with the requirements of the
      contract documents, nor the engineer from determining compliance with the
      requirements of the contract documents, nor the loan recipient from insuring
      compliance with the terms of the loan agreement.


                                      283
      The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
      every reasonable opportunity and means for observing whether the work as
      performed appears to be in accordance with the requirements of the loan
      agreement. The Department is authorized to observe and require submission of
      daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared by any
      party in relation to the WPCELF funded project.

(4)   Observation of Materials and Equipment. The Department is also authorized to
      observe all equipment and materials furnished, including observation of the
      preparation or manufacture of the equipment and materials to be used.

(5)   Construction Deficiencies

      (a)    In the event construction procedures, materials or equipment appear to the
             Department to be substandard, otherwise unsatisfactory, and/or not in
             conformity with these regulations or the loan agreement, the Department
             may determine such work unallowable for WPCELF loan participation,
             unless the loan recipient takes such action, through the engineer if
             applicable, in the manner provided for in the construction contract to
             correct any such deficiencies.

      (b)    The Department may immediately begin withholding WPCELF loan
             payments should such substandard or unsatisfactory construction work,
             materials, or equipment become apparent and may require the loan
             recipient to repay any previously paid amounts related to such work,
             within 30 days of such notification. Interest may be charged on such
             delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at the rate
             established in Rule 5.3.E.(6) of these regulations. Alternatively, the
             Department may withhold such amounts from subsequent payment
             requests.

      (c)    In addition to normal testing procedures required of the loan recipient,
             should questions arise concerning the construction work, materials, or
             equipment, for WPCELF loan allowability purposes the Department may
             request the loan recipient to perform reasonable additional tests of
             construction materials, equipment, or processes which the Department
             determines to be necessary to answer such questions during or after the
             construction of the project. All tests, whether for the Department or the
             engineer, must conform to current American Water Works Association,
             American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, or
             American Society of Testing and Materials published procedures, or
             similar acceptable criteria. The Department will specify which tests are
             applicable, if not described in the plans, specifications, and contract
             documents for WPCELF loan allowability purposes. Samples for such
             testing must be furnished free of cost to the Department upon request.


                                     284
(6)   Change Orders

      (a)   General. In the event a determination is made by a loan recipient after a
            construction contract is let that changes or modifications to the original
            contract are necessary or would better serve the purpose of the loan
            recipient, the loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute such change
            orders pertaining to the construction that are necessary under the
            circumstances, as provided in the contract documents and when in
            accordance with state purchasing law. Change orders must not change,
            vary, or alter the basic purpose or effect of the project unless allowed by
            the Department. Changes must be technically adequate, the costs and time
            extensions must be necessary and reasonable, and allowable/unallowable
            costs must be appropriately separated.

      (b)   Change Order Submittals. After completion of the claims resolution
            and/or change order negotiation process between the loan recipient and the
            contractor, such changes on appropriate fully executed documents must be
            submitted to the Department in order to obtain a WPCELF loan
            eligibility/allowability determination.

            All change order submittals shall include sufficient documentation for the
            Department's eligibility/allowability and technical review, as determined
            by the Department.

            If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
            and fully executed by the loan recipient, and the contractor and the
            engineer when appropriate, the Department may return such change order
            without review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan
            recipient and the engineer when appropriate, and identified as such, that
            are issued in accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to
            the Department in order to obtain a WPCELF loan eligibility/allowability
            determination.

            The loan recipient may submit a complete and fully executed change order
            which has been executed conditional upon a positive WPCELF loan
            eligibility/allowability determination by the Department.

            If possible, the allowability determination of a change order should be
            secured from the Department before the work is started, particularly for
            change orders requesting time extensions as per Rule 5.3.C.(6)(c) below.
            This determination may also be secured after the work is started; however,
            the loan recipient must bear the cost if the work is determined to be
            ineligible or unallowable.




                                    285
             When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
             change order or change orders, the Department may issue an amendment
             to the loan agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient
             must execute such amendment within the time frame established by the
             Department.

      (c)    Time Extensions. Change orders which include time extensions and/or
             documentation that the loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies
             provided in the contract documents for failure to complete construction
             when required, must be submitted to the Department prior to the date of
             the Department's final construction observation, as specified in Rule
             5.3.D.(1) of these regulations. Otherwise, construction and construction-
             related work which occurs after the current allowable contract completion
             date will be unallowable. Justification for contract time extensions
             included in a change order must be prepared, but need not be submitted to
             the Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed
             25% of the original contract time, in which case justification for all time
             extensions must be submitted to the Department for an allowability
             determination.

             Construction and construction-related work which occurs after the date
             representing a 25% time extension to the original contract time are
             allowable only to the extent determined as such by the Department,
             pursuant to review of the justification for all time extension change orders.

             Construction and construction-related work which occurs after the date
             representing a 25% time extension to the original contract time, and for
             which a time extension change order cannot be adequately justified by the
             loan recipient and determined allowable by the Department, is not
             allowable unless the Department determines that the loan recipient is
             implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract documents for
             failure to complete construction when required.

(7)   Contract Claims. The Department is not a party to any contract between the
      WPCELF loan recipient and the construction contractor(s), the consulting
      engineer(s), the attorney(s), the equipment supplier(s), the subcontractor(s) or any
      other parties.

      Upon execution of any contract between the loan recipient and any other party in
      regard to a WPCELF funded project, the Department does not assume any
      authorities, duties, responsibilities, or liabilities under such a contract.

      The Department does not have any authority, duty, responsibility, or liability in
      contract claims identification, negotiation, resolution, or any other actions
      regarding contract claims under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and any
      other party.


                                      286
            No actions taken by the Department, either directly or indirectly, in regard to the
            WPCELF loan funded project constitute or establish any determinations,
            authority, duty, responsibility, or liability under the contract(s) between the loan
            recipient and any other party.

            The loan recipient and the contracting party must resolve all claims and contract
            disputes by negotiation, arbitration, litigation, or other means as provided in the
            contract documents and state law, prior to submission of any change order or
            other documents to the Department, in order to obtain a WPCELF loan
            eligibility/allowability determination.

     (8)    Contractor's Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor's bankruptcy or
            default, any proposed agreements with the bonding company (other than the
            bonding company serving as general contractor or fully bonding another
            contractor acting as their agent) must be submitted for WPCELF loan allowability
            determination by the Department prior to execution. If the loan recipient
            determines that re-award of the construction contract, or a portion thereof, is
            necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such proposed re-award
            contracts must be submitted for WPCELF loan allowability determination by the
            Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be responsible for assuring
            that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in
            advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a construction contract if this course
            of action is taken.

D.   Post Construction Phase

     (1)    Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction contract, the
            loan recipient must submit a determination of construction completion and must
            request a final construction observation by the Department.

            All change orders which include time extensions and/or documentation that the
            loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract
            documents for failure to complete construction when required must be submitted
            to the Department prior to the date of the Department's final construction
            observation; otherwise, construction and construction-related work which occurs
            after the current allowable contract completion date will be unallowable.

            The final construction observation may be delayed by no more than 30 days after
            the current construction completion date, unless further delayed by the
            Department pursuant to review of the loan recipient's request and justification for
            such delay. Should the Department staff decide that the determination of
            construction completion and request for final construction observation are being
            unreasonably delayed, a final construction observation may be immediately
            performed by the Department.



                                             287
      (2)   Within 30 days after the final construction observation performed by the
            Department, the loan recipient must submit: the final payment request; summary
            change order(s), if applicable, for all construction contracts; a complete set of
            record drawings for any and all other new construction work requiring design by a
            registered engineer and, if applicable, a certification from the engineer, or other
            qualified personnel when applicable, that the project has been constructed
            substantially in accordance with the design; final construction phase services
            contract amendments, if any; and all other administrative forms and documents
            required by the loan agreement and the Department. Payment requests
            submitted after this date are not allowable, regardless of when the costs were
            incurred.

      (3)   Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement must be
            performed when so required and are subject to review and approval by the
            Department.

      (4)   Following receipt of the final payment request from the loan recipient, or upon
            expiration of the deadline established in Rule 5.3.D.(2) above, the
            Department or other designated parties may perform an audit of
            the WPCELF loan project for the purpose of determining
            compliance with the WPCELF loan agreement and to determine final allowable
            costs, payments made to date, and any additional payments due the loan recipient
            or repayment due the Department.

      (5)   Upon completion of the WPCELF audit, or if an audit is not performed, following
            expiration of the deadline established in Rule 5.3.D.(2) above, the
            Department will transmit to the loan recipient a copy of the
            audit, if performed, a final determination of allowable
            costs and payments due the loan recipient or repayments
            due the state, and a final loan agreement. The final determination will
            establish a 30-day appeal deadline, as required by Rule 5.3.D.(6)
            below, and will require repayment of any overpayment with
            an interest penalty to begin accruing on the appeal deadline. The
            interest penalty will be as established in Rule 5.3.E.(6) of these
            regulations.

(6)         Within 30 days after the date of the above final determination of allowable costs,
            the loan recipient may submit a written appeal of the final determination including
            a written justification of the reason for the appeal, and supporting documentation
            for any disputed costs of the final determination; otherwise, the final
            determination of allowable costs will become the final allowable costs for
            purposes of WPCELF loan payments and the WPCELF loan repayment
            agreement.


(7)         Should an appeal be submitted in accordance with Rule 5.3.D.(6)


                                            288
                 above, the disputes procedures established in Appendix D of these regulations
                 will be followed in order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable
                 costs.

     (8)         If an appeal is not submitted prior to expiration of the final determination appeal
                 period, the loan recipient must execute and submit the final loan agreement to the
                 Department within the deadline established by the Department.

     (9)         Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
                 Department will transmit it to the State Tax Commission for execution and return
                 to the Department.


     (10)        Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
                 Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
                 repayment of the WPCELF loan will commence under the terms of the loan
                 agreement.

E.         Payments to WPCELF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCELF may be made to
           WPCELF loan recipients under the following conditions:

           (1)   Payments may be requested by and may be made only to loan recipients, in
                 accordance with the WPCELF loan agreement and the loan recipient's contracts
                 for eligible and allowable services and construction for work performed within
                 the project scope and budget period.

           (2)   Excluding the payment request for the administration fee, payments may be
                 requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as required by state law.
                 Payment requests cannot include costs incurred during two different state fiscal
                 years; therefore, two payment requests may be submitted in July: one for costs
                 incurred through June 30th and a second for costs incurred after June 30th.

           (3)   The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCELF payment requests the amount
                 of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
                 funding sources for allowable WPCELF project costs.

           (4)   Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
                 must include the following:

                 (a)    Completed WPCELF payment request form;

                 (b)    Cumulative invoices, which clearly identify scope, time period and the
                        particular project or contract, for all allowable costs for which payment is
                        requested, except that invoices need not be submitted for any
                        administration fee included in the loan agreement; and



                                                 289
           (c)    Any other documents required by the loan agreement;

     (5)   The timing of WPCELF payments will be as follows, provided the loan recipient
           is in compliance with the requirements of these regulations and all provisions of
           the WPCELF loan agreement.

           (a)    Payment for the administration fee must be the first payment request
                  submitted and will be paid to the appropriate Department administration
                  fund.

           (b)    Payments for design and construction phase services may be requested and
                  paid based upon incurred allowable costs. Such requested payment
                  amounts are subject to verification by the Department.

           (c)    Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
                  based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
                  specified in the construction contract(s), and as supported by invoices and
                  verified as accurate by the consulting engineer, if applicable, and the loan
                  recipient, less the retainage withheld by the loan recipient. Such requested
                  payment amounts are subject to verification by the Department.

           (d)    Payments for allowable land may be requested and paid immediately after
                  loan agreement execution, provided the Department has approved the
                  purchase price and proof of the purchase price has been submitted with the
                  payment request.

           (e)   The final loan payment will not be made until submission of all documents
                 required by Rule 5.3.D.(2), enactment of the user charge ordinance
                 as required by Rule 5.3.A.(3)(f), and determination that the loan
                 recipient is in compliance with all other applicable provisions of the
                 WPCELF loan agreement.

     (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient, which are at any time determined by
           Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCELF loan agreement,
           for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs related to waste, fraud, abuse or
           illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCELF fund within
           30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be charged on such
           delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a rate of ten (10)
           percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the Department may
           withhold such amounts from subsequent payment requests.

F.   WPCELF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCELF loan repayments are subject to
     the following requirements:

     (1)   Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient will commence on the original
           construction contract completion date.


                                           290
       (2)    The amount of interest accrued between the original construction contract
              completion date and the initiation of the repayment process will be added to the
              final allowable project costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the
              loan recipient.

       (3)    The repayment period will be from the time of transmittal of the final loan
              repayment agreement to the loan recipient to the date not later than ten (10) years
              after project completion, or sooner, if so requested by the loan recipient.

       (4)    Repayments are to be made by counties on a semi-annual basis through
              homestead exemption annual tax loss reimbursement withholdings, by
              municipalities on a monthly basis through state sales tax withholdings if adequate
              to provide such repayments, and by all other loan recipients through submission
              of monthly payments in accordance with state law, and must commence no sooner
              than 90 days after and no later than one year after project completion.

       (5)    The repayment interest rate will be established in the WPCELF loan agreement
              and repayment agreement, in accordance with the appropriate Notice of Funds
              availability.

       (6)    Interest will be compounded monthly.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                              291
                                     APPENDIX A

                      Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

                                      CONTENTS



A    General

B.   Construction

     1.       Allowable

     2.       Unallowable

C    Equipment, Materials and Supplies

     1.       Allowable

     2.       Unallowable

D.   Change Orders

E.   Professional Services

     1.       Allowable

     2.       Unallowable

F.   Claims

     1.       Allowable

     2.       Unallowable

G.   Mitigation

     1.       Allowable

     2.       Unallowable

H.   Publicly Owned Small and Onsite Systems

     1.       Allowable



                                          292
     2.     Unallowable

I.   Real Property

     1.     Allowable

     2.     Unallowable

J.   Miscellaneous Costs

     1.     Allowable

     2.     Unallowable

K.   Project Income from Bid Bond Forfeitures, Liquidated Damages, and Interest on SRF
     Loan Payments




                                          293
A.   General

     Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCELF loan participation is authorized pursuant
     to applicable statute. Allowable costs are eligible costs that meet the following general
     criteria in addition to any specific identification as an allowable cost within Appendix A:

     (1)    Be necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration and
            construction of the project, be allocable to the project, and not be a general
            expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the loan recipient.

     (2)    Be authorized or not prohibited under state or local laws or regulations.

     (3)    Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in state laws, or other
            governing limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

     (4)    Be consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to
            both state assisted and other activities of the loan recipient.

     (5)    Be accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted
            accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

     (6)    Not be allocable to, or included as, a cost of any other federally or state financed
            program in either the current, prior, or future period.

     (7)    Be determined allowable by the Department after review of necessary books,
            records and other documents related to the costs. Failure to cooperate with the
            Department regarding access to project records or refusal to provide such records
            when requested by the Department may result in such costs being determined
            unallowable for WPCELF participation.

     (8)    Be within the scope of the project and budget period as described in the loan
            agreement.

     (9)    Be determined without regard to any previous federal grant, WPCELF or
            WPCRLF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or
            rehabilitated, except as described in Rule 5.2.D.(6) of these regulations.

     (10)   Be within the scope of projects that meet the definition of an emergency and are
            allowed under Rule 5.2.B. of these regulations.

     (11)   Be procured in accordance with Appendix B.

B.   Construction

     (1)    Allowable costs include:



                                             294
(a)   The costs of contracts for construction work on the project, including
      prime contracts, subcontracts and the direct purchase of equipment,
      materials and supplies by the loan recipient.

      Eligible items in the project may include treatment works (which includes
      wastewater treatment, interceptors, collectors, and other items; see the
      definitions), nonpoint source management programs, and estuary
      conservation and management plans.

(b)   Collectors, including conventional gravity, small diameter gravity,
      pressure, and vacuum systems.

      For wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to existing
      buildings, service lines between the public sewer and the point five (5)
      feet from the outside wall of existing residences and public buildings are
      allowable. Service lines between the public sewer and the property line of
      existing businesses are allowable.

(c)   The costs of sewer system rehabilitation (including rehabilitation of
      allowable service lines) necessary to eliminate or prevent bypasses or
      overflows, or to provide proper operation of the treatment works.

(d)   The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat
      infiltration/inflow that will remain in the system.

(e)   Treatment works which serve industrial or commercial users when such
      works are publicly owned.

(f)   Reserve capacity within a design period of up to twenty years (forty years
      for interceptors, including pump stations and force mains serving as
      interceptors).

(g)   Construction of nonpoint source pollution control projects and estuary
      improvements projects.

      On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
      control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants or estuary
      improvements, only the portion of the project needed for emergency
      control of pollutants or estuary improvements is allowable.

(h)   Construction of treatment and transportation facilities for control of
      pollutant discharges from a separate or combined storm sewer system.
      On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
      control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants, only the portion
      of the project needed for control of pollutants is allowable.



                               295
            (i)    The cost associated with the preparation of the project site before, during
                   and, to the extent provided in the loan agreement, after construction. These
                   costs include:

                   i.     The cost of demolition of existing structures on the project site if
                          construction cannot be undertaken without such demolition.
                          Demolition of existing structures on the project site when not
                          required for constructing the project, will be considered to be an
                          allowable cost only if the existing structures constitute a real and
                          present hazard to safety, public health, or water quality which can
                          best be abated by the removal of the existing structures.

                   ii.    The cost of removal, relocation or replacement of utilities,
                          provided the loan recipient is legally obligated to pay for such by
                          law.

                   iii.   The cost of restoring streets and rights-of-way to their original
                          condition. The need for such restoration must result directly from
                          the construction and is generally limited to repaving the width of
                          trench.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Construction and construction related costs which are incurred after the
                   Department-determined allowable contract completion date (including
                   allowable time extension change orders), unless approved by the
                   Department pursuant to Rule 5.3.C.(6)(c) of these regulations.

            (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively, or almost
                   exclusively.

            (c)    Bonus payments for completion of construction before a contractual
                   completion date unless required by state law.

            (d)    The cost of additional insurance (e.g., for a specific project) beyond that
                   normally carried by the contractor.

C.   Equipment, Materials and Supplies

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies
                   necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to
                   conduct tests required for plant operation.




                                            296
(b)   The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding
      materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process
      operation.

(c)   The cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to
      the operation of the works. The need will depend on the specific item, its
      frequency of expected use, and the size and complexity of the treatment
      facility. Undoubtedly, larger treatment facilities will have a greater need
      for installed shop equipment than smaller ones. Where the proposed items
      of equipment are inappropriate to the size and/or complexity of the
      treatment works, the Department may determine that the proposed
      equipment is unallowable.

(d)   The costs of necessary and reasonable safety equipment, provided the
      equipment meets applicable federal, state, local or industry safety
      requirements.

(e)   The costs of necessary and reasonable collection system maintenance
      equipment.

(f)   The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall
      wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for
      the maintenance of equipment. These items include:

      i.     Portable stand-by generators.

      ii.    Large portable emergency pumps to provide "pump-around"
             capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks.

      iii.   Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as
             their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes
             from the collector point (including individual or onsite systems) to
             the treatment facility or disposal site.

      iv.    Tillage, planting and harvesting equipment that is documented as
             necessary and reasonable for producing the crops which are an
             integral part of the land treatment process, and other vehicles
             demonstrated necessary to the facility and approved in advance by
             the Department.

      Mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall wastewater
      treatment facility may also include vehicles necessary for the daily
      removal and disposal of grit. While vehicles used for other purposes (e.g.,
      sludge tanks or trailers) would normally serve this purpose, large facilities
      may have a sufficient need to justify a separate vehicle to be used solely
      for the transportation and disposal of grit. Additionally, for projects which


                               297
      involve the landspreading of sludge as the method of ultimate sludge
      disposal, the necessary vehicles and equipment for proper sludge
      application.

(g)   Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
      as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
      they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

      i.     not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
             extended "lead-time," or

      ii.    identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), or

      iii.   critical but not included in the inventory provided by the
             equipment supplier(s).

(h)   Flow metering devices used for billing purposes. The costs of constructing
      or installing flow metering devices and appurtenances used for billing
      intergovernmental and major user flows are allowable costs. Meters
      constructed or installed for the primary purpose of billing individual
      residential, commercial, public or industrial users are not allowable.

(i)   The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
      dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and reasonable
      office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file cabinets,
      typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies, calculators, copiers,
      book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and building maintenance
      equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels, brooms, picks, hedge
      trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools such as screw drivers,
      pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

(j)   Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
      are designed into the control system for the daily operation of the
      treatment works.

      Computers are also allowable if they are to be used for the operational
      control and analysis of the treatment works. Examples of such allowable
      uses include the scheduling of equipment maintenance and replacement,
      the operation of the loan recipient's pretreatment program, including the
      scheduling of tests to verify industrial compliance with pretreatment
      requirements, and for accounting and billing services.

      The cost of computer software specifically designed for the operation and
      maintenance of the treatment works is also allowable for loan
      participation. This includes the cost of developing unique operating
      programs for the specific loan funded project.


                               298
(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    The costs of equipment or material procured in violation of Appendix B.

      (b)    The cost of vehicles for the transportation of the loan recipient's employees,
             including buses, trucks, cars, motorcycles, golf carts, bicycles, etc.

      (c)    Items of routine "programmed" maintenance such as ordinary piping, air
             filters, couplings, hoses, belts, etc.

      (d)    Radios, televisions, VCRs, camcorders, and other items of a similar nature.

      (e)    Large stocks of laboratory and other chemicals and supplies above a
             reasonable inventory necessary to initiate plant operations.

D. Change Orders

(1)   Change order costs are allowable provided they are:

      (a)    Necessary and reasonable.

      (b)    Within the scope of the project.

      (c)    Not caused by the loan recipient's mismanagement.

      (d)    Not caused by the loan recipient's vicarious liability for the improper actions
             of others.

      (e)    In conformance with the WPCELF regulations.

(2)   Provided the above requirements are met, the following are examples of allowable
      change orders.

      (a)    Construction costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings and
             specifications, or other contract documents only to the extent that the costs
             would have been incurred if the contract documents on which the bids were
             based had been free of the defects, and excluding the costs of any rework,
             delay, acceleration or disruption caused by such defects.

             Additional costs to correct defects (i.e., errors and omissions in the contract
             documents) and other costs caused by the impact of such defects on other portions
             of the project, are not allowable. For example, if the construction drawings had
             omitted return sludge piping from the secondary clarifiers to the aeration tanks
             and the engineer or contractor detected this before construction was undertaken,



                                                299
            the cost of a change order to include the piping would be an allowable cost,
            because:

            i.      the piping would have been included in the original bid,

            ii.     no additional construction or rework was required (beyond what would
                    have been required if the work had originally been included),
                    and

            iii.    there was no cost impact on other portions of the project (since
                    construction work had not begun).

            If this omission had been realized after substantial construction work had been
            completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work beyond that
            which would have been required by defect free drawings, the cost of the piping
            would still have been allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay would
            have been unallowable.

            The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which would
            have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the actual cost of
            the change order. For example, if a concrete tank had been constructed and was
            later found to be at an incorrect elevation due to an error in the design drawings
            and if it was necessary to demolish the tank and reconstruct it at the correct
            elevation, the entire change order would be unallowable, except for differences in
            excavation costs. If additional excavation was required to enable the tank to be
            constructed at the correct elevation (i.e., the incorrect elevation was too high), the
            cost of the additional excavation would be allowable. However, if too much
            excavation had been undertaken and fill was required to enable the tank to be
            constructed at the correct elevation (i.e., the incorrect elevation was too low), both
            the entire change order and the cost of the unnecessary excavation would be
            unallowable.

            Regardless of the allowability or unallowability of construction costs to correct
            errors and omissions, in no case are additional engineering, legal, inspection, or
            other costs allowable, except for the cost of inspecting allowable construction
            work, to the extent that such inspection costs would have been incurred to inspect
            the same construction if such construction had originally been included in defect-
            free drawings.

     (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

E.   Professional Services

     The term professional services refers to engineering, legal, administrative, and similar
     services. Should any costs for such professional services be incurred prior to loan award,
     such costs will be allowable provided the loan recipient has requested and obtained


                                             300
Department approval of such costs and the loan agreement budget period includes the
time period during which these costs are incurred.

(1)    Allowable costs include:

       (a)    Pre-award costs. These costs include all engineering and other costs that
              are incurred in applying for the loan, including, but not necessarily limited
              to:

              i.     Public notification and public hearings.

              ii.    Preparing the plans, specifications, and contract documents.

              iii.   Preparing the draft user charge ordinance and draft user charge
                     system.

              iv.    Preparing interlocal agreements necessary for the project.

              v.     Surveys and all other work needed to obtain clearance or permits
                     from all intergovernmental review agencies.

              vi.    Preparing the loan application, applications for permits required by
                     federal, state or local laws, regulations or procedures.

              vii.   Compliance with the requirements of the Mississippi Real Property
                     Acquisition Policies Law, if required.

       (b)    The costs of services incurred during the advertisement, award and
              construction of a project to insure that it is built in conformance with the
              design drawings and specifications. These services are primarily
              engineering and construction management services provided during the
              advertisement, award and construction of the project, including inspection
              services, materials testing (e.g., concrete strength, soil compaction, etc.)
              required by the specifications, inspecting and expediting the delivery of
              equipment and material purchased directly by the loan recipient, review of
              shop drawings and record drawings, preparing change orders, payment
              processing, etc.

       (c)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
              recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
              protest appeals under Appendix H are allowable regardless of the outcome
              of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
              violate or circumvent state purchase laws.

       (d)    The cost of development of an operation and maintenance manual.



                                       301
      (e)    Start-up services for onsite training of operating personnel in operation
             and control of specific treatment processes, laboratory procedures, and
             maintenance and records management, provided these costs are incurred
             prior to the end of the 30 day period established in Rule 5.3.D.(2) of these
             regulations.

      (f)    Administrative services associated with the construction of the project and
             administering the WCPELF loan.

      (g)    Professional liability insurance premiums for a provider of professional
             services are allowable only for insurance which the provider maintains in
             connection with the general conduct of its business. The types and extent
             of coverage must be in accordance with sound business practice, and the
             rates and premiums must be reasonable under the circumstances. The
             maintenance of professional liability insurance is a sound business
             practice, and the premiums are allowable, but only as part of an indirect
             cost agreement.

      (h)    The cost of services, other than engineering services during construction,
             such as railway or highway flagmen, or utility or highway inspectors,
             required during the construction of the project, are allowable provided
             that:

             i.     The entity responsible for the affected railway, highway, or utility
                    requires such services for all parties conducting similar types of
                    work, regardless of the source of construction funding for the
                    project, or the services are required by law.

             ii.    The project work requiring such services is allowable, and is
                    included in the scope of the approved project.

             iii.   The cost of such services has not been included in the construction
                    contractor's bid price.

             iv.    The cost of such services is incurred directly by the loan recipient.

             v.     The cost is reasonable.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    Except as provided in Appendix A, Section D.(2)(a), engineering services
             or other services necessary to correct defects in design drawings and
             specifications, or other subagreement documents.

      (b)    Public Liaison Services.



                                        302
              (c)    The cost of local travel (i.e., commuting expenses) between living quarters
                     and the construction site for persons working at the site.

              (d)    Acquisition of unallowable real property.

              (e)    The cost of insurance (e.g., for a specific project), beyond that normally
                     carried by the professional services firm.

F.   Claims

     (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
              requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule 5.3.D.(2) of
              these regulations include:

              (a)    Change orders to the construction contract as a result of settlements,
                     arbitration awards, or court judgments, to the extent that they would have
                     been allowable had there not been a claim.

              (b)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                     recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                     protest appeals under Appendix H are allowable regardless of the outcome
                     of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                     violate or circumvent state purchase laws.

              (c)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                     claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                     provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                     illegal actions, or mismanagement, on the part of the loan recipient.

              (d)    Alterations in construction, engineering, legal, etc. contracts as a result of
                     settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments are allowable to the
                     same extent that they would have been allowable had there not been a
                     claim.

     (2)      Unallowable costs include:

              (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

              (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.

              (c)    Claims resulting from mismanagement by the loan recipient.

              (d)    Claims resulting from the loan recipient's vicarious liability for the
                     improper action(s) of others.

              (e)    The cost of settlements, arbitration awards or court judgments over and


                                              303
                   beyond the allowable costs had there not been a claim, as established in
                   these regulations.

G.   Mitigation

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting
                   from construction of the project.

            (b)    The costs of reasonable site screening necessary to comply with facilities
                   plans, and necessary to screen adjacent properties.

            (c)    The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities necessary to determine the
                   possibility of groundwater deterioration, depletion or modification
                   resulting from construction of the project.

                   The extent of the allowable costs for groundwater monitoring facilities is
                   decided on a case-by-case basis, and depends on the size and complexity
                   of the project and the present and potential future use of the groundwater.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    The costs of solutions to aesthetic problems, including design details
                   which require expensive construction techniques and architectural features
                   and hardware, that are unreasonable or substantially higher in cost than
                   approvable alternatives and that neither enhance the function or
                   appearance of the treatment works nor reflect regional architectural
                   tradition.

            (b)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                   effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

H.   Publicly Owned Onsite Systems

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of major rehabilitation, upgrading, enlarging, and installation of
                   onsite systems.

                   Major rehabilitation may include, as an allowable cost, the demolition and
                   removal of an existing privately or publicly owned onsite system.

            (b)    Collection or service lines to an offsite treatment unit which serves a
                   cluster of buildings.



                                            304
           (c)    The cost of restoring individual system construction sites to their original
                  condition.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    Those portions of treatment works which have surface discharges from
                  individual residences or clusters, unless each discharge has a valid NPDES
                  permit.

           (b)    Modification to physical structure of homes, commercial buildings, or any
                  other structures which are not a part of the public treatment works project.

           (c)    Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

I.   Real Property and Existing Improvements

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of land that will be part of the project, acquired in accordance
                  with the Mississippi Real Property Acquisition Policies Law in fee simple
                  title or by easement. Except as allowed under Section I.(2) below, such
                  land must be acquired at fair market value based on an appraisal or a
                  condemnation proceeding, unless the purchase price of a parcel is $10,000
                  or less. These costs include:

                  i.     The cost of a reasonable amount of land acquired for the
                         construction of treatment works, considering the need for buffer
                         areas, berms, and dikes. Buffer areas may be designed as part of
                         the project to conform with Mississippi Environmental Quality
                         Permit Board regulations, to screen sites from public view, to
                         control public access, and to improve aesthetics.

                  ii.    The cost of land acquired for composting or temporary storage of
                         compost residues which result from wastewater treatment.

                  iii.   Where properties are only partially acquired for project purposes,
                         necessary compensation of property owners for the reduced value
                         of their remaining land.

           (b)    The cost of acquiring all or part of an existing publicly or privately owned
                  wastewater treatment works and necessary land for a consolidation
                  project, provided all of the following criteria are met:

                  i.     The acquisition, in and of itself, considered apart from any
                         upgrade, expansion or rehabilitation, provides new pollution
                         control benefits;


                                           305
                  ii.      The primary purpose of the acquisition is not the reduction,
                           elimination, or redistribution of public or private debt; and

                  iii.     The acquisition does not circumvent federal, state or local
                           requirements.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           For parcels costing over $10,000, any amount paid by the loan recipient for
           allowable land in excess of fair market value, based on an appraisal or any
           condemnation proceeding. For parcels costing over $10,000, an amount other than
           the determination of fair market value may be found allowable through an
           administrative settlement if the loan recipient provides sufficient written
           documentation to the Department that it is reasonable, prudent and in the public
           interest, such as when negotiated purchase is unsuccessful and condemnation
           action may entail a long delay or excessive costs. Documentation may include
           evidence of purchase negotiations, real property sales data, estimated court
           settlement and legal costs based on previous condemnation proceedings.

J.   Miscellaneous Costs

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The costs the loan recipient incurs for equipment, material and supplies
                  necessary for the construction project.

           (b)    Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, the costs of meeting
                  specific legal requirements directly applicable to the project.

           (c)    Costs for necessary non-local travel directly related to accomplishment of
                  project objectives, such as costs of loan recipient employees attending
                  training workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in
                  administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the
                  construction of the treatment works. Travel not directly related to a
                  specific project, such as travel to professional meetings, symposia,
                  technology transfer seminars, lectures, etc., may be recovered only under
                  an indirect cost agreement.

           (d)    Cost of royalties for the use of, or rights in, a patented process or product.
                  Reasonable royalties associated with the procurement of the right to use,
                  or the rights in, a patented product, apparatus, or process are allowable
                  costs, provided that they are:

                  i.       necessary,



                                            306
      ii.     based on a published fee schedule or on reasonable fees charged to
              other users under similar conditions.

      Periodic payment of royalties for the right to operate under a patent are
      considered operating costs, and are unallowable for loan participation.

(e)   Buildings

      Allowable costs for buildings include those portions of the building which
      are directly related to the project, including buildings housing equipment
      and unit processes, laboratories, employee locker rooms, workshop areas,
      storage facilities for operational supplies, spare parts and equipment,
      necessary lavatory facilities, operator office space, etc. Those portions of
      an administration building which are not necessary for the daily operation
      and maintenance of the project are unallowable costs, including portions
      of the building used for public works functions (other than wastewater
      treatment), general accounting functions, conference rooms with
      associated audio-visual equipment, or other general uses not necessary for
      the operation of the project. Where larger facilities include conference
      rooms to be used exclusively for training of employees, such space is
      allowable if reasonable, and if approved by the Department as part of the
      loan award.

      Where unallowable building space is included in an otherwise allowable
      administration building, the allowable cost is determined by using the ratio
      of allowable floor space divided by the total floor space in the building.
      The costs of buildings and portions of buildings which are unallowable are
      to be deducted from the allowable project construction costs for loan
      computation purposes. Costs associated with unallowable buildings and
      portions of buildings (e.g., landscaping, driveways, parking spaces,
      electrical service, and other utility costs) are also unallowable, and must
      be deducted proportionately from the allowable construction costs.

(f)   Facilities For Income Generation from Processed Sludges and Crops
      Facilities which have the potential for generating project income to offset
      O&M costs are allowable if they are necessary to provide stabilized and
      processed sludges which are to be managed for income generation, or
      crops which are grown for sale as an integral part of the wastewater land
      treatment or sludge utilization process.

      Facilities and equipment built for processing crops grown on land to
      which sludge or wastewater has been applied may be an allowable cost if
      the recipient has all financial interest in the crop and if those facilities are
      necessary and reasonable to prepare the crop for prompt delivery to its
      market. Crop processing facilities could involve grain drying or
      fermenting.


                                307
                   Facilities built for processing crops or sludge into marketable products
                   such as compost or heat-dried pellets may be allowable if those facilities
                   are necessary and reasonable to cost-effectively prepare the product for
                   prompt delivery to its market. Processing facilities could include the
                   drying and pelletizing operation when this approach has been selected to
                   stabilize the product. Facilities to store the marketable products to get
                   more favorable prices, to transport the product for sale to a market, or to
                   optimize marketing of the product, such as bagging operations, are also
                   allowable.

            (g)    Any administration fee charged to the loan recipient.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Ordinary operating expenses of the loan recipient including salaries and
                   expenses of the loan recipient's employees and elected and appointed
                   officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

            (b)    Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the
                   establishment of special departments, agencies, commissions, regions,
                   districts or other units of government.

            (c)    Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of
                   indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

            (d)    Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

            (e)    Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal,
                   state or local laws, regulations or procedures, and related legal expenses.

            (f)    Costs outside the scope or budget period of the approved project.

            (g)    Costs for which payment has been or will be received from another state
                   or federal source.

            (h)    Operation and maintenance costs of the treatment works.

            (i)    Lease payments.

K.   Project Income From Bid Bond Forfeitures, Liquidated Damages, and Interest on
     WPCELF Loan Payments:

     (1)    Bid bond forfeitures shall have no effect on the determination of allowable and
            unallowable costs. The loan recipient shall make the determination of whether or
            not a bid bond will be forfeited.


                                            308
(2)   Liquidated damages shall have no effect on the determination of allowable and
      unallowable costs, except as required by Rule 5.3.C.(6)(c) of these
      regulations.

(3)   Interest income on WPCELF payments to loan recipients shall have no effect on
      the determination of allowable and unallowable costs.




                                     309
                                         APPENDIX B

                   Procurement Requirements for WPCELF Loan Recipients

In the procurement of all repairs, construction, equipment, materials, supplies, professional
services and non-professional services and all other costs related to the WPCELF project, all
loan recipients must comply with state purchasing laws. All allowable contracts must conform to
the definition of a contract in these regulations.

The procurement and conduct of all professional engineering and land surveying services must
also be in accordance with the Code of Conduct and other guidance and interpretations
established by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.

The procurement of all construction contracts must also be in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the State Board of Contractors and other guidance and interpretations established
by the Mississippi State Board of Contractors.

All loan recipients must submit a procurement certification, as required by the Department,
indicating that all of the above referenced requirements have been met. Should it be determined
that any of the above procurement requirements are violated, the Department may determine that
the related costs are unallowable and may require repayment of all WPCELF Loan funds paid for
such costs, in accordance with Rule 5.3.E.(6) of these regulations.




                                               310
                                          APPENDIX C

                                    Debarment and Suspension

Loan recipients are prohibited from entering into contractual agreements with individuals,
businesses, organizations, or any other entities that have been debarred or suspended by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, any other federal agency, state agency or by the
Department. Entities debarred or suspended by the federal agencies are identified in the
General Services Administration (GSA) publication entitled "List of Parties Excluded from
Federal Procurement or Nonprocurement Program."

Loan recipients are responsible for ensuring that prime contractors utilized on the project are
not on the federal or state debarment lists. Likewise, prime contractors are responsible for
ensuring that subcontractors utilized on the project are not on the federal or state debarment
lists.

Anyone may contact the Department concerning the existence of a cause for debarment or
suspension. The Department may refer the matter to the state Attorney General or other
appropriate office for further investigation. If, after review or investigation, the Department
reasonably believes that a cause for debarment exists, the Department may propose
debarment or suspension and may initiate procedures similar to, but not necessarily identical
to, federal regulation 40 CFR Part 32: Debarment and Suspension Under EPA Assistance
Programs.

Such above described debarment or suspension actions will not affect existing executed
contractual agreements, unless such agreements have been terminated or suspended under
the terms of the agreement by the loan recipient.




                                                311
                                        APPENDIX D

                                WPCELF Disputes Procedures

Only WPCELF loan recipients may submit a notice of dispute (disagreement) with a decision
made by the Department. The following procedures will be used to resolve disputes between the
loan recipient and the Department.

       (1)    The loan recipient must submit a written notice of dispute with a Department
              decision, including a summary of the dispute and reasons for why the loan
              recipient believes the Department decision should be reversed.

       (2)    The Department staff will then render a written decision on the dispute and will
              include reasons for the decision.

       (3)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the Department staff decision, a request
              for an informal hearing must be received by the Department within 30 days after
              the date of the Department staff decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an
              informal hearing will be held with staff members, as designated by the Head of
              the Office of Pollution Control, and the affected parties. The Office Head, or his
              designee, will render a decision on the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       (4)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a
              request for a formal hearing before the Commission on Environmental Quality
              must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
              decision. Upon receipt of such a request, the Commission will hold a formal
              hearing to consider the matter and will render a decision.

       (5)    Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              312
                                          APPENDIX E

                                     Waste, Fraud and Abuse

It is the loan recipient's responsibility for preventing, detecting, and prosecuting waste, fraud,
abuse, and all other corrupt practices which may occur in relation to the WPCELF loan project.

If the loan recipient becomes aware of allegations, evidence, or the appearance of corrupt
practices, the loan recipient must:

       (1)     Immediately inform the Department in writing.

       (2)     Promptly pursue available state and local legal, administrative, and contractual
               remedies.

The Department may disallow costs under the WPCELF loan agreement where it is determined
that such costs are related to waste, fraud, abuse, or other corrupt practices. The Department may
also require repayment of WPCELF loan funds paid for such costs in accordance with Rule
5.3.E.(6) of these regulations.




                                                313
                                         APPENDIX F

               WPCELF Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements

All WPCELF loan recipients must maintain project accounts in accordance with generally
accepted government accounting standards, as defined by the Guidelines of the Municipal
Accounting and Audit Manual, as prescribed by the State Auditor's Office. Charges to the project
account must be properly supported, related to allowable construction costs, and documented by
appropriate records. These project accounts must be maintained as separate accounts.

The Department and its representatives shall have access to and the right to audit, inspect, copy
and examine all books, financial records and other documents relating directly to the receipt and
disbursement of WPCELF funds. Failure to cooperate with the Department regarding access to
project records or refusal to provide such records when requested by the Department may be
considered justification for debarment of the Loan Recipient and/or its Contractor, Engineer,
attorney, or other person or company providing any services in conjunction with the project.




                                               314
                                           APPENDIX G

                                 Intergovernmental Review Process

The Intergovernmental Review (IGR) Agencies are as follows:

       (1)     Mississippi Department of Archives and History (For archaeological/cultural
               resources review under the state Antiquities Law);

       (2)     Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks, Natural Heritage
               Program (For vegetative/wildlife review under the Nongame and Endangered
               Species Conservation Act);

       (3)     U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (For wetlands,
               floodplain impact and Section 10 - navigable waterway review);

       (4)     Mississippi Department of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock
               County projects only; for shellfish and Mississippi Coastal Program review)

       (5)     U.S. Forest Service (projects located in a federally designated Wild and Scenic
               River basin only, for federal Wild and Scenic Rivers Act compliance)

It is the loan applicant's/recipient's responsibility to take all actions necessary to satisfy the IGR
agencies and obtain their concurrence in the project prior to awarding contracts for construction
of the project. An intergovernmental review certification must be submitted as part of the
WPCELF loan application package.




                                                 315
                                          APPENDIX H

                            WPCELF Procurement Protest Procedures

This Appendix sets forth the process for the resolution of procurement protests filed with the
loan recipient by an adversely affected party. The Loan Recipient's protest procedures must
include the requirements of this Appendix.

       (1)     Prior to advertisement for bids or proposals, the loan recipient must establish its
               own procedures for prompt consideration of initial protests concerning
               solicitations or contract awards. A "protest" is a written complaint concerning the
               loan recipient's solicitation or award of a contract. The protest must be filed with
               the loan recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a
               loan recipient's procurement action, and must be filed in accordance with and
               within the time frame established by the loan recipient's protest procedures.

       (2)     Any party which transmits any document concerning the protest during the course
               of a protest and protest resolution must simultaneously furnish all other affected
               parties and the Department with a copy of all documents in the transmittal.

       (3)     Upon receipt of a protest, the loan recipient must make a determination on the
               protest in accordance with the loan recipient's protest procedures within thirty
               (30) calendar days after such protest, or sooner if so required by the loan
               recipient's procurement protest procedures.

       (4)     The party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan recipient's
               determination of the protest may appeal such a determination only through the
               appropriate court of competent jurisdiction, provided such appeal is initiated
               within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the determination.

       (5)     Any delay due to a protest or protest resolution will not relieve the loan recipient
               of the requirement to meet the project schedule established in the loan agreement,
               nor will such delays prevent the Department from pursuing the remedies for
               default established in the loan agreement.




                                                316
                                           APPENDIX I

                                  Related Laws and Regulations

During the planning, design, construction, and operation of the project, the loan recipient shall
comply with all applicable laws and regulations and shall acquire all applicable permits as
described in the Departmental publication “Environmental Permit Directory”, or its successor.
The applicable related laws and regulations are listed below. The WPCELF regulations are not
complete without these laws and regulations.

A.     Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications for Air and Water Pollution
       Control Permits. The loan recipient shall also comply with the following related
       requirements:

       (1)     All design plans submitted to the Department for review shall clearly display that
               a 150-foot buffer zone between the treatment facility and the adjoining property l
               lines (unless exempted by zoning) is provided. This shall be shown on a plan view
               of the treatment facility site. If it is not possible to provide a 150-foot buffer zone,
               a written waiver from the adjoining property owners shall also accompany the
               design plans. When a waiver is necessary, it is strongly suggested that this be
               obtained prior to substantial work on the treatment facility design.

       (2)     An NPDES or State Operating Permit application shall accompany all design
               plans for wastewater treatment facilities, if a permit or permit modification is
               required.

       (3)     All appraisals, negotiations, purchase agreements, and site certificates shall
               include the required buffer zones, unless a waiver was previously submitted along
               with the design plans.

       (4)     In cases where a needed waiver cannot be obtained, the loan recipient may pursue
               a variance from the 150-foot buffer zone requirement as provided in section 3.(c)
               of the Permit Board's "Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications
               for Air and Water Pollution Control Permits."

B.     State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters

C.     Mississippi Nonhazardous Waste Management Regulations

D.     Mississippi Coastal Wetlands Protection Law, Section 49-27-1 through 49-27-69,
       Mississippi Code Annotated, (Supp. 1989), et seq.

E.     Mississippi Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and Control of Air
       Contaminants

F.     Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System


                                                 317
     (NPDES), Underground and Injection Control (UIC) and State Operating Permits

G.   State of Mississippi Regulations for the Certification of Municipal and Domestic
     Wastewater Facility Operators

H.   Mississippi Municipal and Domestic Water and Wastewater System Operator's
     Certification Act of 1986, Sections 21-27-201 through 21-27-221, Mississippi Code of
     1972, annotated.

I.   Mississippi Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund and Emergency Loan Fund Act,
     Sections 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended.

J.   Mississippi state purchase law, Title 31, Mississippi Code of 1972, annotated.

K.   Mississippi State Engineering & Surveying Law, Sections 73-13-1 through 73-13-99,
     Mississippi Code of 1972, annotated, and Rules and Regulations of Procedure
     promulgated thereunder by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional
     Engineers and Land Surveyors.




                                            318
Part 6, Chapter 6: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Water Pollution
Control Revolving Loan Fund Program Regulations (Effective for Projects Funded From
10/1/2000 Through 9/30/2004)

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS
__________________________________

Rule 6.1 Introductory Provisions

Rule 6.2 Program Requirements

Rule 6.3 Project Requirements

Appendices
A.    Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs
B.    Environmental Review Process
C.    Procurement Requirements for WPCRLF Loan Recipients
D.    MBE/WBE Requirements
E.    Debarment and Suspension
F.    WPCRLF Loan Recipient Department Disputes Procedures
G.    Waste, Fraud and Abuse
H.    Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements
I.    Procurement Protest Procedures
J.    Applicable State and Federal Laws, Regulations and Executive Orders
K.    Defaults and Remedies
L.    Loan Recipient/Contractor Claims and Disputes
M.    Definitions
__________________________________




                                           319
Rule 6.1 Introductory Provisions.

A.     Scope of Regulations. These regulations, adopted pursuant to Sections 49-17-81 through
       89, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, shall govern the Mississippi Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF) Program beginning in federal fiscal year 2001.
       These WPCRLF regulations may be superceded by the WPCRLF loan agreement and
       repayment agreement when such a variance is determined prudent by the Executive
       Director and when not in conflict with any state or federal law, regulation, or executive
       order.

B.     Federal Equivalence and Cross-Cutter Requirements. Federal regulation 40 CFR
       35.3135(f) requires that “equivalency” projects funded under the State Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Fund must comply with sixteen specific requirements of Title II (the
       EPA Construction Grants Program) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
       “Equivalency” projects are generally defined as wastewater projects constructed with
       funds which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State for this program.

       Similarly, 40 CFR 35.3145 requires that the State must also require all recipients of funds
       which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State to comply with certain other
       “cross-cutting” federal authorities. Cross-cutting authorities are federal laws and
       authorities that apply to these projects independent of the federal Water Pollution Act and
       subsequent amendments.

       Since the beginning of this program in FY-89 and continuing through FY-00, the
       Department has required that all projects receiving loan funding meet federal equivalency
       and cross-cutter requirements, and has banked the amount of these loan awards in excess
       of the federal capitalization grants toward meeting equivalency and cross-cutter
       requirements of future federal capitalization grants. The Department has determined that
       the amount of loans awarded in excess of the federal capitalization grants through FY-00
       should equal or exceed the federal capitalization grants expected for this program from
       FY-01 and after. Accordingly, the Department has determined that projects funded in
       FY-01 and after will not be required to meet all federal equivalency and cross-cutter
       requirements.

       These regulations apply to projects that receive loan awards in FY-01 and after. Thus,
       almost all of these federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements are excluded from
       these regulations. However, certain of these requirements have been retained in order to
       secure a reasonable assurance that the Department funds projects that are
       environmentally sound, that the loan recipient can construct, operate, and maintain the
       project and repay the loan, that these public funds are adequately protected and expended
       only for their intended purpose, and as otherwise required by EPA.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 6.2 Program Requirements.



                                              320
A.   Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
     must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Appendix M of these
     regulations, as determined by the Department.

B.   Intended Use Plan (IUP). In each fiscal year for which funds are available in the
     WPCRLF, the Commission will establish and publish an IUP in conformance with
     federal requirements. The IUP includes a mechanism developed by the Department to
     prioritize potential projects for uses of the available funds. The IUP describes the
     intended use of the funds in the WPCRLF and how the uses support the goals of the
     program.

C.   Reserves. The Commission may reserve certain percentages of the State’s federal Title
     VI allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the WPCRLF program and for
     planning under Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state
     law. The Commission may also charge administrative fees to loan recipients for
     administration of the WPCRLF program, as established in each year’s IUP.

D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission will establish
     and provide for public comment on and review of the annual IUP. The Department may
     take into consideration any comments prior to adoption of the annual IUP. After adoption
     by the Commission, modification to these documents may be adopted by the Commission
     as provided for in the IUP without further public comment and review.

E.   WPCRLF Uses. The fund may be used for the following purposes, or as established in
     the IUP, for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans to eligible applicants on the condition that:

            (a)     Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                    exceed 20 years after project completion, or for such period as may be
                    allowed by federal law.

            (b)     The loan applicant shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                    repayment of loans.

            (c)     The fund shall be credited with all payments of principal and interest on
                    all loans.

            (d)     The loan applicant is in compliance with WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)    Under the conditions in (1) above, to refinance the debt obligation of loan
            recipients when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or
            after such date as established in the IUP for a given fiscal year, and where such
            projects have complied with the WPCRLF Regulations. The loan applicant
            agrees that, by pursuing such a refinancing arrangement, it does so at its own risk
            and thereby relieves the Commission and Department of all responsibility and


                                            321
           liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
           funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)   As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
           revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
           of such bonds will be deposited in the WPCRLF and provided such authority is
           established in state law.

     (4)   For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCRLF program and conducting
           activities under Title VI of the Act.

     (5)   To earn interest on WPCRLF accounts.

F.   WPCRLF Financial Assistance.

     (1)   The WPCRLF has been established to provide loans to eligible loan applicants for
           the purpose of funding:

           (a)    Construction of publicly owned treatment works as defined in Section 212
                  of the Act.

           (b)    Implementation of nonpoint source pollution management programs
                  established under Section 319 of the Act.

           (c)    Development and implementation of estuary conservation and
                  management plans under Section 320 of the Act.

     (2)   Basic financial assistance requirements are as follows:

           (a)    Section 212 projects shall be included on the fundable or planning portion
                  of the Priority List in the current year’s IUP.

           (b)    Terms of any financial assistance shall be as established in the IUP for the
                  projects to be funded in each fiscal year and shall be further established in
                  the loan agreement.

           (c)    The loan applicant or recipient shall comply with the requirements of the
                  Act, as amended, all applicable state laws, requirements, regulations, and
                  the annual IUP.

           (d)    The applicant must not be in violation of any provisions of a previously
                  awarded WPCRLF, WPCELF or WPALP loan agreement.

           (e)    The applicant must not be in arrears in repayments to the WPCRLF, the
                  WPCELF, the WPALP or on any other loan.



                                           322
              (f)     Funds will not be disbursed to loan recipients until the loan recipient has
                      entered into a WPCRLF loan agreement with the Department.

              (g)     The WPCRLF program will provide assistance only to projects that are
                      consistent with any water quality management plans developed under
                      sections 205(j), 208, 303(e), 319 and 320 of the Act as applicable.

G.     State Capitalization Grant Application.

       After the Commission adopts each annual IUP, the Executive Director may submit the
       IUP with an application to the appropriate federal agency for any available federal funds.

H.     WPCRLF Program Administration.

       The WPCRLF Program will be administered by the Commission acting through the
       Department, in accordance with the Act, applicable federal regulations, state law and
       these regulations.

I.     Responsibility.

       The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for compliance with all applicable state and
       federal laws and regulations, and for the proper planning, design, construction, operation,
       maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal integrity of the project. The
       Department’s approval of any document does not relieve the applicant/loan recipient or
       any others of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department review and/or approval of
       any document is for loan eligibility/allowability purposes and does not establish or
       convey any such liability or responsibility.

J.     Other Approvals.

       The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary documents from each
       state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding in the project, if so
       required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann, §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 6.3 Project Requirements. All water pollution control projects funded by the WPCRLF
must comply with the following requirements. Non-point source pollution control projects and
estuary management projects must comply with these requirements to the extent described in the
loan application and loan agreement, as established by the Department.

A.     Facilities Planning.

       (1)    Preplanning Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide facilities
              planning guidance to the potential applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan
              applicant and/or its engineer should attend a preplanning conference with the


                                                 323
      Department as early in the planning process as practical. During the conference
      the staff will provide information on the required facilities planning documents
      necessary to comply with these regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared
      by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer registered
      under Mississippi law.

(2)   Contents of the Facilities Plan. The facilities plan must comply with the
      Department’s guidance, including updates, Appendices A, B and J of these
      regulations and any other requirements of the Department pursuant to review of
      the facilities plan. The facilities plan must generally contain the following, as
      determined appropriate by the Department:

      (a)    A description of the existing water pollution control facilities, if any,
             owned by the applicant.

      (b)    A description of the existing and/or future water pollution problem or
             threat to be addressed by the proposed project.

      (c)    Documentation of sufficient flow monitoring and/or estimation to quantify
             wastewater, infiltration and inflow, applicable effluent limitations, and any
             other technical data necessary to provide the basis for preliminary
             engineering design of the project.

      (d)    A description of the proposed facilities, costs, location, and how the
             proposed facilities will address the existing and/or future water pollution
             problem or threat identified in the plan.

      (e)    A demonstration that minorities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
             loan applicant will not be systematically excluded from the benefits of the
             proposed projects.

      (f)    A specific indication that each applicable intergovernmental review
             agency has been contacted regarding the proposed project, any adverse
             comments from the applicable intergovernmental review agencies, and an
             indication of all necessary permits and clearances that must be obtained
             for this project. Intergovernmental review agencies are as follows:

             (i)     Mississippi Department of Archives and History (for
                     archaeological/cultural resources review under the State
                     Antiquities Law)

             (ii)    Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks-Natural
                     Heritage Program (for vegetative/wildlife review under the
                     Nongame and Endangered Species Conservation Act.)

             (iii)   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (for


                                      324
                     Wetlands, Section 10, and floodplain impact review)

             (iv)    Mississippi Department of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison,
                     and Hancock County Projects only; for Mississippi Coastal
                     Program and applicable Mississippi law review)

             (v)     U.S. Forest Service (projects located in a federally designated Wild
                     and Scenic River Basin only, for federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
                     Act compliance)

      (g)    For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, a comparative
             evaluation of the no-action alternative and the proposed alternative, which
             accounts for beneficial and adverse consequences that each alternative
             would have on existing and future environmental resources, as required by
             Appendix B.

      (h)    A financial capability summary using planning level cost estimates.

      (i)    For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, (1) a copy of the notice
             to the public of the proposed project and for the opportunity to comment
             on alternatives and to examine environmental review documents,
             including the facilities plan and any comments, permits, or clearances
             from the intergovernmental review agencies, (2) a copy of any comments
             received from the public, and (3) a description of how all comments were
             addressed.

      (j)    For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act and determined by the
             Department to be controversial, (1) a copy of the public hearing notice
             published in a local newspaper of general circulation providing at least a
             30 day advance notice of a public hearing to be held by the loan applicant,
             (2) a copy of the transcript of the public hearing and (3) a description of
             how all comments were addressed.

      (k)    Calculations showing the necessary user charges for the project using
             planning level cost estimates.

(3)   State Environmental Review Process. For projects defined under Section 212 of
      the Act, prior to approval of the facilities plan, the Department will complete the
      appropriate portions of the state environmental review process described in
      Appendix B of these regulations, based upon information provided in the facilities
      plan.

(4)   Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department will approve the facilities plan after
      completing any applicable state environmental review process and after
      determining that all facilities planning requirements appear to be met.



                                      325
B.   Application for WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Preapplication Guidance and Conference.

           The Department will provide a loan application package to the potential loan
           applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan applicant and/or its engineer may
           request a preapplication conference with the Department as early in the
           application process as practical.

     (2)   Contents of an Application Package. Forms provided by the Department must be
           used and may not be altered. The WPCRLF loan application may request
           assistance only for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendix A of
           these regulations and may include a construction contingency, as determined by
           the Department, in the project budget.

           The application package must conform to these regulations, and must include the
           following:

           (a)    A WPCRLF loan application form with original signature.

           (b)    A draft user charge system and ordinance.

           (c)    All proposed or executed contracts for all administration, legal, facilities
                  planning, design, testing, construction observation and any other services.
                  An allowable cost certification must be submitted with each executed
                  contract.

           (d)    A procurement certification from the loan applicant and the loan
                  applicant’s legal counsel.

           (e)    A financial capability summary using the most recent cost estimates, if
                  different from planning estimates.

           (f)    Copies of all required intergovernmental review agency
                  permits/clearances, or copies of letters from the appropriate
                  intergovernmental review agencies which state that no permits or
                  clearances are required.

           (g)    A legal certification from the loan applicant and the loan applicant’s legal
                  counsel.

           (h)    A certified copy of a resolution by the loan applicant’s governing body
                  which 1) authorizes the submission of the application and 2) designates an
                  authorized representative or office to make application for assistance and
                  to sign documents, on behalf of the applicant, required to undertake and
                  complete the project.


                                           326
           (i)    A copy of all existing or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
                  project, if applicable. Such agreements must be executed by all
                  appropriate parties and must be approved by the Department prior to loan
                  offer.

           (j)    All waste disposal permit applications, if not previously submitted.

           (k)    All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information required
                  by the Department.

C.   Offer of a WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements of the
           WPCRLF loan application have been met, (b) the facilities plan has been
           approved, (c) the project is on the current year priority list and (d) funds are
           available for the amount of the WPCRLF loan application, the Executive Director
           will execute and transmit a WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. In addition
           to the estimated allowable project costs as described in Appendix A of these
           regulations, the loan offer may include a construction contingency, as determined
           by the Department, in the project budget.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
           return it to the Department, along with a certified copy of a resolution by the loan
           recipient’s governing body authorizing acceptance of the loan offer, within the
           time frame established in the WPCRLF loan offer. The loan offer becomes void
           if not executed and returned within the time frame specified, unless extended by
           the Executive Director.

D.   Design.

     (1)   Guidance and Conference.

           The Department will provide design guidance to the loan applicant/recipient
           and/or its engineer, who may request a predesign conference with the

     (2)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.

           (a)    The engineer must prepare plans, specifications, and contract documents
                  on all appropriate elements of the project. These documents must conform
                  to Department requirements, to Appendices A, B, C, D, E, and J of these
                  regulations, and to the technical requirements of the Departmental
                  document “State of Mississippi Requirements for the Design of Municipal
                  Wastewater Treatment Facilities,” or its successor. Plans, specifications,
                  and contract documents must also conform to such contract language,
                  conditions, and forms as may be required by the Department.


                                           327
(b)   Contents. In addition to the above, the plans, specifications, and contract
      documents must minimally contain the following:

      (1)    Provisions assuring compliance with these regulations and all
             relevant federal and state laws.

      (2)    Forms by which the bid bond, performance bond and payment
             bonds will be provided.

      (3)    A contractor’s assurance which must warrant compliance by the
             contractor with all applicable federal laws and regulations and all
             laws and regulations of the State.

      (4)    Provisions for the applicant to retain a certain percentage of the
             progress payments otherwise due to the contractor, in accordance
             with state law.

      (5)    Provisions requiring the contractor to obtain and maintain the
             appropriate insurance coverage.

      (6)    Provisions giving authorized representatives of the loan recipient
             access to all construction activities, books, records, and documents
             of the contractor for the purpose of observation, audit and copying
             during normal business and/or working hours.

      (7)    Provisions for compliance with any applicable Minority Business
             Enterprise/Women Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) requirements
             as described in Appendix D of these regulations.

      (8)    Provisions for change orders.

      (9)    Provisions for liquidated damages.

      (10)   Those conditions, specifications, and other provisions set forth or
             required by the Department.

(c)   Related submittals. The following documents, if applicable to the project,
      must also be submitted by the deadline in the loan agreement for
      submission of the plans, specifications, and contract documents, or at
      other times as may be required by the loan agreement:

      (1)    A copy of the issued NPDES permit or the state operating permit,
             if required.

      (2)    A copy of the issued solid waste disposal permit, if required.


                              328
             (3)    Written waivers from all adjoining property owners when it is not
                    possible to provide required buffer zones, if the project includes
                    wastewater or sludge treatment facilities.

             (4)    Real Property.

                    (i)    For all loan ineligible real property and easements
                           (including power and other utilities), completion of the
                           applicable and appropriate requirements of state law
                           regarding acquisition of real property, and certification
                           forms from both the loan applicant and the title counsel
                           which indicate that all such loan ineligible real property
                           and easements for the entire project have been secured by
                           at least one of the following actions:

                           (A)       Clear title.

                           (B)       Execution by both parties of a bonafide option to
                                     purchase or a lease valid for the expected life of the
                                     project.

                           (C)       Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in
                                     court.

                           Prior to advertisement for construction bids, clear title
                           certification forms for all real property and easements from
                           both the loan applicant and the title counsel must be
                           submitted for all loan ineligible real property and
                           easements (including power and other utilities).

                    (ii)   For all loan eligible real property, completion of the
                           appropriate requirements of state law regarding acquisition
                           of real property, an appraisal, and a written request to the
                           Department for approval of the purchase price of all loan
                           eligible real property. Prior to advertisement for
                           construction bids, the loan applicant must secure approval
                           of the purchase price by the Department, must complete
                           purchase of all loan eligible real property and easements,
                           and must submit clear title certificates from the loan
                           recipient and title counsel for all such loan eligible
                           property.

(3)   Submittal of Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.




                                       329
           By the date specified in the loan agreement the applicant must submit complete
           plans, specifications and contract documents for the entire project to the
           Department.

     (4)   Approval of Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents. The Department will
           approve the plans, specifications, and contract documents upon determining that
           these documents:

           (a)     Appear to conform to the requirements of these regulations,

           (b)     Appear to be approvable pursuant to a technical review by the
                   Department, and

           (c)     Appear to be consistent with the approved facilities planning documents
                   and environmental determinations required by these regulations.

E.   Construction Bidding and Loan Amendment.

     (1)   Within the time frame established in the loan agreement and upon a) approval of
           the plans, specifications, and contract documents by the Department, b) issuance
           of any other permits or clearances required for the project, and c) submittal of
           clear title certificates from the loan recipient and title counsel for all real property
           and easements required for the project, the loan recipient must then advertise the
           project for construction bids. All procurement actions by the loan recipient must
           comply with state law and these regulations.

     (2)   Upon receipt of construction bids, the loan recipient must then submit a) the
           completed MBE/WBE documentation as required by Appendix D of these
           regulations, b) the completed bid package, c) all necessary executed contracts and
           amendments as described in Rule 6.3.B(2)(c), and d) a loan agreement
           amendment request (consistent with as-bid construction costs, a construction
           contingency as determined by the Department, and any professional services
           contracts and amendments) to the Department within the time frame established
           in the loan agreement.

     (3)   Upon the receipt of the completed MBE/WBE documentation, bid package,
           professional services contracts and amendments, and loan agreement amendment
           request from the loan recipient, the Department will review these documents,
           determine whether any request for an increased loan amount is justified and
           allowable and that funds are available and, after determining that all documents
           are approvable, will transmit to the loan recipient approval to execute the
           construction contracts.

     (4)   After receipt, review and approval of the loan agreement amendment request, the
           Department will prepare and transmit an amended WPCRLF loan offer to the loan
           recipient. The loan offer will include in the project budget (a) the approved as-bid


                                             330
            amounts for construction contracts, (b) the amounts for professional services
            contracts, and (c) a construction contingency as determined by the Department.
            Upon receipt of the amended WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute
            and return it to the Department within the timeframe established in the offer letter.
            After execution of the amended WPCRLF loan offer, the WPCRLF loan amount
            may not be increased except for funding of a subsequent portion of a segmented
            project as identified in the Intended Use Plan for a later fiscal year. Any
            increased project costs in excess of the amended WPCRLF loan amount must be
            paid by the loan recipient from sources other than WPCRLF loan funds.

F.   Construction.

     (1)    Awarding Construction Contracts and Preconstruction Conference. Upon receipt
            of the approval to execute the construction contract and issue the notice to
            proceed, the loan recipient must do so and transmit a copy of the executed
            construction contract and the notice to proceed to the Department within the time
            frame specified in the loan agreement.

            The loan recipient is responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and
            incidental legal requirement is observed in advertisement for bids and awarding
            the construction contracts. The plans, specifications, and executed contract
            documents must not vary from those approved by the Department.

            The loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and must
            allow attendance and participation by the Department if such a conference is held.

     (2)    Observation During Construction.

            During all times that construction work is being performed, the loan recipient
            must provide for full-time observation of the project by the engineer or his staff
            and must require the engineer’s assurance that the work is being performed in a
            satisfactory manner in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the
            approved plans, specifications, contract documents and approved change orders.
            Less than full-time observation may be allowed when properly justified and
            approved by the Department

            The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
            time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
            loan recipient and engineer are assuring that plans, specifications and contract
            documents are being followed. Such observation will not subject the Department
            to any legal action for claims, damages or any other liability. Such observation
            will not release the contractor from any obligation to perform the work in
            accordance with the requirements of the contract documents or the engineer from
            determining compliance with the requirements of the contract documents or the
            loan recipient from insuring compliance with the contract and the terms of the
            loan agreement.


                                            331
      The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
      every reasonable opportunity and means for determining whether the loan
      recipient and engineer are assuring that the work is in accordance with the
      requirements of the approved plans, specifications and contract documents. The
      Department is authorized to observe and require submission by the loan recipient
      of daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared in
      relation to the WPCRLF funded project.

(3)   Construction Deficiencies.

      (a)    In the event that it appears to the Department that the loan recipient and
             engineer are not assuring that the construction work, materials, equipment
             or supplies are in conformity with approved plans and specifications, and
             contract documents, the Department may determine these items are
             unallowable for WPCRLF loan participation, unless the loan recipient
             takes action, through the engineer if applicable, in the manner provided for
             in the construction contract to correct any such deficiencies.

      (b)    The Department may immediately withhold WPCRLF loan payments for
             such time that it appears that the loan recipient and engineer are not
             asssuring that construction work, materials, equipment or supplies are in
             accordance with the approved plans, specifications and contract
             documents, and may require the loan recipient to repay any previously
             paid amounts related to such work within 30 days of such notification.

(4)   Change Orders.

      (a)    General. In the event a determination is made by a loan recipient after a
             construction contract is executed that changes or modifications to the
             original contract are necessary or would better serve the purpose of the
             loan recipient, the loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute such
             change orders pertaining to the construction that are necessary under the
             circumstances, as provided in the contract documents and when in
             accordance with state law.

             Change orders must not change, vary, or alter the basic purpose or effect
             of the project. Change orders must be technically adequate, the costs must
             be necessary and reasonable, and eligible/ineligible costs must be
             appropriately separated.

      (b)    Change Order Submittals. After completion of the change order
             negotiation process and/or claims resolution between the loan recipient
             and the contracting party, an executed change order must be submitted to
             the Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF
             loan eligibility/allowability determination.


                                     332
             If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
             and executed by the loan recipient, the contracting party, and the engineer
             if appropriate, the Department may return such change order without
             review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan recipient,
             and the engineer if appropriate, and identified as such, that are issued in
             accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to the
             Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan
             eligibility/allowability determination.

             The loan recipient may submit a complete change order which has been
             executed conditional upon a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
             determination by the Department.

             If possible, approval of a change order should be secured from the
             Department before the work is started. Approval may also be secured
             after the work is started; however, the loan recipient must bear the cost if
             the work is later determined to be ineligible or unallowable.

             When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
             change order(s), the Department may issue an amendment to the loan
             agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient must
             execute the amendment within the time frame established by the
             Department.

      (c)    Department Review. In order to allow the Department to perform a
             technical and loan allowability review, requests for change order
             approvals must conform to Department guidance, requirements and
             regulations.

      (d)    Time Extensions. Change orders which include time extensions exceeding
             30 days beyond the original contract completion date, and/or
             documentation that the loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies
             provided in the contract documents for failure to complete construction
             when required, must be submitted to the Department as specified in Rule
             6.3.F(6)(i) of these regulations. Justification for contract time extensions
             included in a change order must be prepared, but need not be submitted to
             the Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed 30
             days after the original contract completion date, in which case justification
             for all time extensions must be submitted to the Department for an
             allowability determination.

(5)   Contractor Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or
      default, any proposed agreements with the bonding company (other than the
      bonding company serving as general contractor or hiring another contractor acting



                                      333
      as their agent) must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability determination
      by the Department prior to execution.

      If the loan recipient determines that re-award of the construction contract or a
      portion thereof is necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such
      proposed re-award contracts must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability
      determination by the Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be
      responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal
      requirement are observed in advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a
      construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(6)   Design and Construction Phase Submittals, Approvals, and Actions. The
      following submittals, approvals, and actions will be required during the design
      and construction phase of the project. The Department may establish additional
      time frames within the loan agreement.

      (a)    By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement, the loan
             recipient must submit a complete set of plans, specifications and contract
             documents to the Department.

      (b)    Within 90 days after approval of the plans, specifications, and contract
             documents by the Department, (1) all construction related contracts must
             be advertised for bids and proof of such advertisement must be submitted,
             (2) all local funds necessary for the project must be secured and proof of
             such local funds must be submitted, and (3) clear title certificates from the
             loan recipient and title counsel for all loan eligible real property must be
             submitted.

      (c)    Within 120 days after approval of the plans, specifications, and contract
             documents by the Department, the loan recipient must receive bids on all
             construction contracts.

      (d)    Within 14 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must submit all
             MBE/WBE and related documents.

      (e)    Within 21 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must submit all bid
             packages.

      (f)    Within 60 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must execute all
             construction contract documents, must submit a copy of all executed
             contract documents, and must issue and submit a copy of the notice to
             proceed on all such contracts.

      (g)    By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement (which is
             based upon 90% of construction contract time) the loan recipient must
             enact the approved user charge system and submit a copy of the enacted


                                      334
                   ordinance to the Department.

            (h)    Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction
                   contract, the loan recipient must notify the Department of construction
                   completion.

                   The Department will perform a final construction observation within 30
                   days after the current construction contract completion date, unless further
                   delayed by the Department pursuant to review of the loan recipient’s
                   request and justification for such delay. Should the Department decide
                   that the construction completion is being unreasonably delayed, a final
                   construction observation may be immediately performed by the
                   Department. The final construction observation by the Department is only
                   for the purpose of determining final loan allowable costs.

            (i)    Within 30 days after the current construction contract completion date, all
                   change orders which include time extensions exceeding 30 days beyond
                   the original contract completion date, and/or documentation showing the
                   loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract
                   documents for failure to complete construction when required, must be
                   submitted to the Department for an allowability determination.

            (j)    Within 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation, the
                   loan recipient must submit: final loan payment requests, approvable
                   summary change orders for all construction contracts; record drawings for
                   the entire project funded in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds; the
                   engineer’s certification of compliance with plans, specifications, and
                   contract documents; final professional services contract amendments, if
                   any; and all other administrative forms and documents required by the
                   loan agreement. Loan payment requests submitted after this date are
                   not allowable, regardless of when the costs were incurred.

            (k)    Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement must be
                   performed when required and are subject to review and approval by the
                   Department.

G.   Post Construction Phase.

     (1)    Following final payment of WPCRLF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon
            expiration of any deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department,
            the Department or other designated parties may perform an audit of the WPCRLF
            loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the WPCRLF loan
            agreement and to determine final allowable costs, payments made to date, and any
            additional payments due the loan recipient or repayment due the Department.




                                           335
     (2)   Upon completion of the WPCRLF audit (or if an audit is not performed,
           following approval of the final payment request of WPCRLF loan funds to the
           loan recipient or upon expiration of any deadlines established by the loan
           agreement or the Department), the Department will transmit to the loan recipient a
           copy of the audit report, if performed, and a final determination of allowable costs
           and payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State. The final
           determination will also establish a 30-day appeal deadline, as required by (3)
           below, and will require repayment of any overpayments with an interest penalty
           to begin accruing on the appeal deadline.

     (3)   Within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan recipient
           may submit a written appeal of the final determination, including a written
           justification of the reason for the appeal, and supporting documentation for any
           disputed costs of the final determination. Otherwise, the final determination of
           allowable costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of WPCRLF
           loan payments and the WPCRLF loan agreement.

     (4)   Should an appeal be submitted, the disputes procedures established in Appendix F
           of these regulations will be followed in order to resolve the dispute and establish
           the final allowable costs.

     (5)   Upon expiration of the final determination appeal period, or upon resolution of a
           dispute of the final determination, the Department will transmit to the loan
           recipient a final WPCRLF loan agreement between the loan recipient, the
           Department, and the State Tax Commission. The loan recipient must execute and
           submit the final loan agreement to the Department within the deadline established
           by the Department.

     (6)   Upon receipt of an executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
           Department will transmit the final loan agreement to the State Tax Commission
           for execution and return to the Department.

     (7)   Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
           Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient.
           Repayment of the WPCRLF loan will commence under the terms of the executed
           final loan agreement.

     (8)   If the project fails to perform properly at any time within the first year after the
           final construction observation performed by the Department, the loan recipient
           must immediately notify the Department of the reasons for lack of performance,
           submit an approvable schedule of corrective actions, and implement the corrective
           actions in accordance with the approved schedule.

H.   Payments to WPCRLF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCRLF may be made
     under the following conditions:



                                           336
(1)   Payments may only be requested by and made to loan recipients, in accordance
      with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the loan recipient’s executed and approved
      contracts for eligible and allowable services and construction, for work performed
      within the project scope and budget period.

(2)   Payments may be requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as
      allowed by the Department.

(3)   The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCRLF payment requests the amount
      of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
      funding sources for allowable WPCRLF project costs.

(4)   Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
      must include the following:

      (a)    WPCRLF payment request form.

      (b)    Cumulative invoices, in accordance with the contracts for such work, for
             all costs for which payment is requested.

      (c)    Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

(5)   The timing of WPCRLF payments to the loan recipient will be as follows,
      provided the loan recipient is in compliance with the requirements of these
      regulations and provisions of the WPCRLF loan agreement:

      (a)    Upon execution of the loan agreement all incurred facilities planning and
             application costs may be requested and paid. No further payments may be
             requested and paid except as allowed below.

      (b)    Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
             loan agreement execution, if the Department has approved the purchase
             price and the loan recipient has submitted a bonafide option to purchase.

      (c)    Upon (1) approval of all plans, specifications, and contract documents,
             and (2) submittal of clear site certificates from the loan recipient and title
             counsel for all loan eligible and ineligible real property, costs incurred to
             date in accordance with the contracts for administration, engineering,
             legal, and any other professional services may be requested and paid. No
             further payments may be requested and paid except as allowed below.

      (d)    Upon receipt by the Department of all executed construction contract
             documents and notices(s) to proceed, costs incurred in accordance with the
             contracts for administration, engineering, legal, and any other professional
             services may be requested and paid.



                                       337
           (e)    Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
                  based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
                  specified in the construction contract and as supported by invoices and
                  verified as accurate by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.

           (f)    No more than 95% of all construction phase costs will be paid until
                  submission of the determination of construction completion; performance
                  of the final construction observation by the Department; submission of the
                  final pay request; submission of approvable summary change orders on all
                  construction contracts; submission of record drawings on all construction
                  contracts; submission of the engineer’s certification of compliance with
                  plans, specifications and contract documents; submission of loan
                  recipient’s resolution of acceptance of each construction contract;
                  submission of final professional services contract amendments, if any, and
                  compliance with all other applicable provisions of the WPCRLF loan
                  agreement. Upon completion of these actions, the remainder of all costs
                  may be paid.

     (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by the
           Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement,
           for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs apparently related to waste, fraud,
           abuse or illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCRLF
           fund within 30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be
           charged on such delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a
           rate of ten (10) percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the
           Department may withhold such amounts including interest from subsequent
           payment requests.

I.   WPCRLF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCRLF loan repayments are subject to
     the following requirements:

     (1)   Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient will commence on the latest original
           construction contract completion date, or one year after initiation of the earliest
           construction contract, whichever occurs first.

     (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the date established in (1) above and the
           initiation of the repayment process will be added to the final allowable project
           costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the loan recipient.

     (3)   The term of the loan repayment will be from the time of transmittal of the final
           loan agreement to the loan recipient to the end of the term as established in the
           IUP under which the project is funded, or a reduced term if requested by the loan
           recipient.

     (4)   Repayments shall be made on a monthly basis and shall commence when
           determined by the Department. Repayments shall be made through monthly


                                            338
              withholding of sales tax reimbursements or homestead exemption tax loss
              reimbursements in accordance with state law, if the amount of such
              reimbursement is sufficient to make the monthly payment. Otherwise, repayment
              shall be made by submission of monthly payments directly to the State.

       (5)    The repayment interest rate and the frequency of interest compounding will be as
              established in the IUP under which the project is funded.

J.     Administrative Fee. An administrative fee in the amount of five percent (5%) of the final
       loan principal amount will be collected from the loan repayment amounts to defray the
       costs of administering the WPCRLF program. Beginning with the initiation of the
       repayment process and until such time that the total administrative fee is collected, the
       interest portion of each repayment will not be charged, and, in lieu of the interest portion,
       an equal amount of the repayment will be collected as the administrative fee.

Source: Miss. Code Ann, §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1 et seq.




                                               339
                                     APPENDIX A

                      Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

                                      CONTENTS

A.   General

B.   Professional Services
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

C.   Construction
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

D.   Equipment, Materials, and Supplies
     (1)   Allowable
     (2)   Unallowable

E.   Change Orders

F.   Claims
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

G.   Mitigation
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

H.   Publicly Owned Onsite Systems
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

I.   Real Property and Existing Improvements
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

J.   Miscellaneous Costs
     (1)    Allowable
     (2)    Unallowable

K.   Project Income From Bid Bond Forfeitures, Liquidated Damages, and Interest on
     WPCRLF Loan Payments




                                          340
A    General

     Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant
     to applicable statute. Allowable costs are eligible costs that meet the following general
     criteria in addition to any specific identification as an allowable cost within Appendix A:

     (1)    Are necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration and
            construction of the project, be allocable to the project, and not be a general
            expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the loan recipient.

     (2)    Are authorized or not prohibited under state or local laws or regulations.

     (3)    Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in state laws or other governing
            limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

     (4)    Are consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to
            both state assisted and other activities of the loan recipient.

     (5)    Are accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted
            accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

     (6)    Are not allocable to, or included as, a cost of any other federally or state financed
            program in either the current, prior, or future period.

     (7)    Are determined allowable by the Department after review of necessary books,
            records and other documents related to the costs. Failure to cooperate with the
            Department regarding access to project records or refusal to provide such records
            when requested by the Department may result in costs being determined
            unallowable for WPCRLF participation.

     (8)    Are within the scope and budget period of the project as described in the loan
            agreement.

     (9)    Are determined without regard to any previous federal grant, WPALP, WPCELF
            or WPCRLF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or
            rehabilitated, except as described in Rule 6.2.F.(2)(d) and (e) of these
            regulations.

     (10)   Not withstanding this appendix, are eligible and allowable under the federal Clean
            Water Act and any implementing federal regulations.

     (11)   Are procured in accordance with Appendix C.

B.   Professional Services

     The term professional services refers to engineering, legal, administrative, and similar


                                             341
services.

(1)    Allowable costs include:

       (a)    Costs that are normally included in the fringe benefits and indirect cost of
              the firm except those costs specifically excluded in these regulations.

       (b)    Profit, not to exceed the amount normally charged by the firm for similar
              work.

       (c)    Preparing the facilities plan.

       (d)    Preparing the plans, specifications, and contract documents, including
              value engineering.

       (e)    Preparing the loan application package.

       (f)    Costs associated with the acquisition of real property, permanent and
              temporary construction easements and compliance with the requirements
              of the Mississippi Real Property Acquisition Policies Law.

       (g)    The costs of services incurred during the advertisement, award and
              construction of a project.

       (h)    The costs associated with acquiring minority and women’s business
              services.

       (i)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
              recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
              protest appeals under Appendix I are allowable regardless of the outcome
              of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
              violate or circumvent state purchase laws.

       (j)    The cost of developing an operation and maintenance manual.

       (k)    Start-up services for onsite training of operating personnel in operation
              and control of specific treatment processes, laboratory procedures, and
              maintenance and records management.

       (l)    Administrative services associated with the construction of the project and
              administering the WCPRLF loan.

       (m)    The cost of services, other than engineering services during construction,
              such as railway or highway flagmen, or utility or highway inspectors,
              required during the construction of the project, are allowable provided
              that:


                                       342
                      i.     The entity responsible for the affected railway, highway, or utility
                             requires such services for all parties conducting similar types of
                             work, regardless of the source of construction funding for the
                             project, or the services are required by law.

                      ii.    The cost of such services has not been included in the construction
                             contractor’s bid price.

              (n)     Engineering services or other services necessary to correct omissions in
                      the facilities plan, design drawings and specifications or other documents
                      to the extent that such costs would have been allowable for preparing
                      omission free documents.

       (2)    Unallowable costs include:

              (a)     Engineering services or other services necessary to correct defects in the
                      facilities plan, design drawings and specifications, or other documents.

              (b)     Public liaison services.

              (c)     Bad debt.

              (d)     Entertainment costs.

C.     Construction

Eligible projects may include treatment works, nonpoint source management projects, and
estuary conservation and management projects.

       (1)    Allowable costs include:

              (a)     The costs of contracts for allowable construction work on the project,
                      including prime contracts, subcontracts and the direct purchase of
                      equipment, materials and supplies by the loan recipient.

              (b)     The costs of sewer system rehabilitation (including rehabilitation of
                      allowable service lines) necessary to eliminate or prevent
                      infiltration/inflow, bypasses or overflows, or to provide proper operation
                      of the treatment works.

              (c)     The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat
                      infiltration/inflow that will remain in the system.

              (d)     Treatment works which serve industrial or commercial users when such
                      works are publicly owned.


                                                 343
(e)   Reserve capacity within a design period of up to twenty years (forty years
      for interceptors, including pump stations and force mains serving as
      interceptors).

(f)   Implementation of a nonpoint source management program established
      under Section 319 of the Act and development and implementation of an
      estuary conservation and management plan under Section 320 of the Act.

      On projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood control,
      or any purposes other than control of pollutants or estuary conservation,
      only the portion of the project needed for control of pollutants or estuary
      conservation shall be allowable.

(g)   Construction of treatment and transportation facilities for control of
      pollutant discharges from a separate or combined storm sewer system.

      On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
      control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants, only the portion
      of the project needed for control of pollutants is allowable.

(h)   The cost associated with the preparation of the project site before, during
      and, to the extent provided in the loan agreement, after construction.
      These costs include:

      (i)     The cost of demolition of existing structures on the project site if
              construction cannot be undertaken without such demolition.
              Demolition of existing structures on the project site when not
              required for constructing the project, will be considered to be an
              allowable cost only if the existing structures constitute a real and
              present hazard to safety, public health, or water quality which can
              best be abated by the removal of the existing structures.

      (ii)    The cost of removal, relocation or replacement of utilities,
              provided the loan recipient is legally obligated to pay for such by
              law.

      (iii)   The cost of restoring streets and rights-of-way to their original
              condition. The need for such restoration must result directly from
              the construction and is generally limited to repaving the width of
              trench.

      (iv)    For wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to
              existing buildings, service lines between the public sewer and the
              point five (5) feet from the outside wall of existing residences and



                               344
                          public buildings are allowable. Service lines between the public
                          sewer and the property line of existing businesses are allowable.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Construction and construction related costs which occur more than 30
                   days after the current allowable completion date are not allowable unless
                   the Department determines that the loan recipient is implementing all legal
                   remedies provided in the contract documents for failure to complete
                   construction when required.

            (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively or almost
                   exclusively.

            (c)    Bonus payments for completion of construction before a contractual
                   completion date unless required by state law.

D.   Equipment, Materials, and Supplies

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies
                   necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to
                   conduct tests required for plant operation.

            (b)    The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding
                   materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process
                   operation.

            (c)    The cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to
                   the operation of the works. The need will depend on the specific item, its
                   frequency of expected use, and the size and complexity of the treatment
                   facility. Larger treatment facilities will have a greater need for installed
                   shop equipment than smaller ones. Where the proposed items of
                   equipment are inappropriate to the size and/or complexity of the treatment
                   works, the Department may determine that the proposed equipment is
                   unallowable.

            (d)    The costs of necessary and reasonable safety equipment, provided the
                   equipment meets applicable federal, state, local or industry safety
                   requirements.

            (e)    The costs of necessary and reasonable collection system maintenance
                   equipment.

            (f)    The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall


                                            345
      wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for
      the maintenance of equipment. These items include:

      (i)     Portable stand-by generators.

      (ii)    Large portable emergency pumps to provide “pump-around”
              capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks.

      (iii)   Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as
              their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes
              from the collector point (including individual or onsite systems) to
              the treatment facility or disposal site.

      (iv)    Tillage, planting, landspreading and harvesting equipment that is
              documented as necessary and reasonable for land treatment process
              and other vehicles demonstrated necessary to the facility and
              approved in advance by the Department.

(g)   Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
      as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
      they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

      (i)     not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
              extended “lead-time,” or

      (ii)    identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), or

      (iii)   critical but not included in the inventory provided by the
              equipment supplier(s).

(h)   Wastewater and drinking water flow metering devices used for wastewater
      billing purposes.

(i)   The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
      dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and
      reasonable office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file
      cabinets, typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies,
      calculators, copiers, book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and
      building maintenance equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels,
      brooms, picks, hedge trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools
      such as screw drivers, pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

(j)   Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
      are designed into the control system for the daily operations of the
      treatment works.



                               346
                  Computers are also allowable if they are to be used for the operational
                  control and analysis of the treatment works. Examples of such allowable
                  uses include the scheduling of equipment maintenance and replacement,
                  the operation of the loan recipient’s pretreatment program, including the
                  scheduling of tests to verify industrial compliance with pretreatment
                  requirements, and for accounting and billing services.

                  The cost of computer software specifically designed for the operation and
                  maintenance of the treatment works is also allowable for loan
                  participation. This includes the cost of developing unique operation
                  programs for the specific loan funded project.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    The costs of equipment or material procured in violation of Appendix C.

           (b)    The cost of vehicles for the transportation of the loan recipient’s
                  employees, including buses, trucks, cars, motorcycles, golf carts, bicycles,
                  etc.

           (c)    Items of routine “programmed” maintenance such as ordinary piping, air
                  filters, couplings, hoses, belts, etc.

           (d)    Radios, televisions, VCRs, camcorders, and other items of a similar
                  nature.

           (e)    Large stocks of laboratory and other chemicals and supplies above a
                  reasonable inventory necessary to initiate plant operations.

E.   Change Orders

     (1)   Change order costs are allowable provided they are:

           (a)    Necessary and reasonable.

           (b)    Within the scope of the project.

           (c)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s mismanagement.

           (d)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the improper
                  actions of other.

           (e)    In conformance with the WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)   Provided the above requirements are met, the following costs are allowable
           change orders.


                                          347
              (a)    Construction costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings
                     and specifications or other contract documents only to the extent that the
                     costs would have been incurred if the contract documents on which the
                     bids were based had been free of the defects and excluding the costs of
                     any rework, delay, acceleration or disruption caused by such defects.

                     If the defect is realized after substantial construction work has been
                     completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work
                     beyond that which would have been required by defect free drawings, the
                     cost would still be allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay is
                     unallowable.

                     The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which
                     would have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the
                     actual cost of the change order.

              (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

F.   Claims

     (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
              requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule
              6.3.F.(6)(e) of these regulations, include:

              (a)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                     recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                     protest appeals under Appendix I are allowable regardless of the outcome
                     of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                     violate or circumvent state law.

              (b)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                     claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                     provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                     illegal actions or mismanagement on the part of the loan recipient.

              (c)    Amendments or change orders in construction, engineering, legal, etc.,
                     contracts as a result of settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments
                     are allowable to the same extent that they would have been allowable had
                     there not been a claim.

     (2)      Unallowable costs include:

              (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

              (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.


                                              348
            (c)    Claims resulting from mismanagement by the loan recipient.

            (d)    Claims resulting from the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the
                   improper action(s) of others.

            (e)    The cost of settlements, arbitration awards or court judgments over and
                   beyond the allowable costs had there not been a claim, as established in
                   these regulations.

G.   Mitigation

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting
                   from construction of the project.

            (b)    The costs of reasonable site screening necessary to comply with facilities
                   plans and necessary to screen adjacent properties.

            (c)    The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities necessary to determine the
                   possibility of groundwater deterioration, depletion or modification
                   resulting from construction of the project.

                   The extent of the allowable costs for groundwater monitoring facilities is
                   decided on a case-by-case basis and depends on the size and complexity of
                   the project and the present and potential future use of the groundwater.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    The costs of solutions to aesthetic problems, including design details
                   which require expensive construction techniques and architectural features
                   and hardware, that are unreasonable or substantially higher in cost than
                   approvable alternatives and that neither enhance the function or
                   appearance of the treatment works nor reflect regional architectural
                   tradition.

            (b)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                   effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

H.   Publicly Owned Onsite Systems

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of major rehabilitation, upgrading, enlarging, and installation of
                   onsite systems.


                                            349
                  Major rehabilitation may include the demolition and removal of an
                  existing privately or publicly owned onsite system in accordance with
                  Section C(1)(h)(i) of this appendix.

           (b)    Collection or service lines to an offsite treatment unit which serves a
                  cluster of buildings.

           (c)    The cost of restoring individual system construction sites to their original
                  condition.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    Those portions of treatment works which have surface discharges from
                  individual residences or clusters, unless each discharge has a valid NPDES
                  permit.

           (b)    Modification to physical structure of homes, commercial buildings, or any
                  other structures which are not a part of the public treatment works project.

           (c)    Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

I.   Real Property and Existing Improvements

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of land that will be an integral part of the treatment process, such
                  as for land treatment facilities, acquired in accordance with the Mississippi
                  Real Property Acquisition Policies Law in fee simple title or by easement.
                  Except as allowed under Section I.(2) below, such land must be acquired
                  at fair market value based on an appraisal or a condemnation proceeding,
                  unless the purchase price of a parcel is $10,000 or less. These costs
                  include:

                  (i)     The cost of a reasonable amount of land acquired for the
                          construction of land treatment works, considering the need for
                          buffer areas, berms, and dikes. Buffer areas may be designed as
                          part of the project to conform with Mississippi Environmental
                          Quality Permit Board regulations, to screen sites from public view,
                          to control public access, and to improve aesthetics.

                  (ii)    The cost of land acquired for land application of sludge,
                          composting or temporary storage of compost residues which result
                          from wastewater treatment.

                  (iii)   Where properties are only partially acquired for project purposes,


                                           350
                           necessary compensation of property owners for the reduced value
                           of their remaining land.

           (b)    The cost of acquiring all or part of an existing publicly or privately owned
                  wastewater treatment works and necessary land for a consolidation
                  project, provided all of the following criteria are met:

                  (i)      The acquisition, in and of itself, considered apart from any
                           upgrade, expansion or rehabilitation, provides new pollution
                           control benefits;

                  (ii)     The primary purpose of the acquisition is not the reduction,
                           elimination, or redistribution of public or private debt; and

                  (iii)    The acquisition does not circumvent federal, state or local
                           requirements.

           (c)    The cost of complying with the requirements of the State’s Real Property
                  Acquisition Policies Law.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    For parcels costing over $10,000, any amount paid by the loan recipient
                  for allowable land in excess of fair market value, based on an appraisal or
                  any condemnation proceeding.

           (b)    For parcels costing over $10,000, an amount other than the determination
                  of fair market value may be found allowable through an administrative
                  settlement if the loan recipient provides sufficient written documentation
                  to the Department that it is reasonable, prudent and in the public interest,
                  such as when negotiated purchase is unsuccessful and condemnation
                  action may entail a long delay or excessive costs. Documentation may
                  include evidence of purchase negotiations, real property sales data,
                  estimated court settlement and legal costs based on previous
                  condemnation proceedings.

           (c)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                  effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

J.   Miscellaneous Costs

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    On force account projects, the costs of equipment, materials and supplies
                  necessary for the project.



                                            351
(b)   Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, the costs of meeting
      specific legal requirements directly applicable to the project.

(c)   Costs for necessary travel directly related to accomplishment of project
      objectives, such as costs of loan recipient employees attending training
      workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in
      administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the
      construction of the treatment works.

(d)   Cost of royalties for the use of, or rights in, a patented process or product.

      Royalties associated with the procurement of the right to use, or the rights
      in, a patented product, apparatus, or process are allowable costs, provided
      that they are based on a published fee schedule or on reasonable fees
      charged to other users under similar conditions.

(e)   Buildings

      Allowable costs for buildings include those portions of the buildings
      which are directly related to the project, including buildings housing
      equipment and unit processes, laboratories; employee locker rooms;
      workshop areas, storage facilities for operational supplies, spare parts and
      equipment; necessary lavatory facilities, operator office space; etc. Those
      portions of an administration building which are not necessary for the
      daily operation and maintenance of the project are unallowable costs,
      including portions of the building used for public works functions (other
      than wastewater treatment), general accounting functions, conference
      rooms with associated audio-visual equipment, or other general uses not
      necessary for the operation of the project. Where larger facilities include
      conference rooms to be used exclusively for training of employees, such
      space is allowable if reasonable and if approved by the Department as part
      of the loan award.

      Where unallowable building space is included in an otherwise allowable
      administration building, the allowable cost is determined by using the ratio
      of allowable floor space divided by the total floor space in the building.
      The costs of buildings and portions of buildings which are unallowable are
      to be deducted from the allowable project construction costs for loan
      computation purposes. Costs associated with unallowable buildings and
      portions of buildings (e.g., landscaping, driveways, parking spaces,
      electrical service, and other utility costs) are also unallowable and must be
      deducted proportionately from the allowable construction costs.

(f)   Facilities For Income Generation from Processed Sludges and Crops
      Facilities which have the potential for generating project income to offset
      O&M costs are allowable if they are necessary to provide stabilized and


                               352
             processed sludges which are to be managed for income generation or
             crops which are grown for sale as an integral part of the wastewater land
             treatment or sludge utilization process.

             Facilities and equipment built for processing crops grown on land to
             which sludge or wastewater has been applied may be an allowable cost if
             the recipient has all financial interest in the crop and if those facilities are
             necessary and reasonable to prepare the crop for prompt delivery to its
             market.

             Facilities built for processing crops or sludge into marketable products
             such as compost or heat-dried pellets may be allowable if those facilities
             are necessary and reasonable to cost-effectively prepare the product for
             prompt delivery to its market. Facilities to store the marketable products
             to get more favorable prices, to transport the product for sale to a market,
             or to optimize marketing of the product, such as bagging operations, are
             also allowable.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    Ordinary operation expenses of the loan recipient including salaries and
             expenses of the loan recipient’s employees and elected and appointed
             officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

      (b)    Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the
             establishment of departments, agencies, commissions, regions, districts or
             other units of government.

      (c)    Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of
             indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

      (d)    Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

      (e)    Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal,
             state or local laws, regulations or procedures, and related legal expenses.

      (f)    Costs outside the scope or budget period of the approved project.

      (g)    Costs for which payment has been or will be received from another state
             or federal source.

      (h)    If a treatment works includes any reserve capacity which induces
             development on environmentally sensitive lands such as wetland, flood
             plains, etc, the cost of the entire treatment works will be unallowable.

      (i)    Operation and maintenance costs of the treatment works.


                                       353
            (j)    Lease payments.

            (k)    Periodic payment of royalties for the right to operate under a patent is
                   considered an operational cost and is unallowable for loan participation.

K.   Project Income From Bid Bond Forfeitures, Liquidated Damages, and Interest on
     WPCRLF Loan Payments:

     (1)    Bid bond forfeitures shall have no effect on the determination of allowable and
            unallowable costs.

     (2)    Liquidated damages shall have no effect on the determination of allowable and
            unallowable costs, except as required by Section C.(2)(a) of this Appendix.

     (3)    Interest income on WPCRLF payments to loan recipients shall have no effect on
            the determination of allowable and unallowable costs.




                                           354
                                       APPENDIX B

                            State Environmental Review Process
                    [For Projects Defined Under Section 212 of the Act]

A.   Facilities Plan Description of Environmental Impacts

     Each project’s facilities plan must contain a comparative evaluation of the no-action
     alternative and the proposed alternative which accounts for the beneficial and adverse
     consequences to the existing and future environmental resources as follows and any
     corresponding mitigative measures necessary to protect these resources:

     (1)    Surface and groundwater resources.
     (2)    Archaeological/historical/cultural resources.
     (3)    Vegetative/wildlife resources.
     (4)    Wetlands and navigable waterways.
     (5)    Floodplains.
     (6)    Coastal zones.
     (7)    Wild and scenic rivers.
     (8)    Air Quality.

B.   Environmental Review.

     The information, processes, and premises that influence an environmental determination
     are as follows. The Department will take one or more of the following actions pursuant
     to the review of the facilities plan description of environmental impacts and any
     comments generated by the Intergovernmental Review Agencies:

     (1)    Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment.

            The Department will issue a Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) when,
            based upon review of the facilities plan and any intergovernmental review agency
            comments, it appears that a project will not have a significant adverse
            environmental impact.

     (2)    Environmental Impact Statement.

            If the Department determines that the project does not qualify for a FONSI, an
            Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared in general conformance
            with EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 6, or as deemed appropriate by the Department.

     (3)    Amendments.

            Amendments are occasionally needed to describe changes to proposed facilities
            that have already been described in a FONSI or EIS. The Amendment will
            describe the changes and any expected new impacts on the environment due to the


                                            355
            changes.

     (4)    Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action.

            If five years will pass between the issuance of a FONSI, EIS or Amendment and
            the offer of WPCRLF funding, the environmental impact of the project will be
            reevaluated. If there have been no significant changes, the Department will issue
            a reaffirmation of the environmental action. If the original environmental action
            cannot be reaffirmed, the Department will issue a new environmental action, as
            appropriate.

     (5)    No Further Action.

            The Department will issue a FONSI or EIS for all WPCRLF projects. If there are
            significant changes in the project after the issuance of the environmental
            document, those changes will be described in an Amendment. Some changes are
            minor, however, and the Department may determine that a separate Amendment
            need not be issued. Such minor changes may include, but are not limited to:

            (a)     Changes in the size of pump stations, force mains, interceptor sewers, or
                    collection sewers.

            (b)     Minor changes in the size of wastewater treatment unit processes.

            (c)     Minor rerouting of sewer lines when the new route will not adversely
                    affect cultural resources, habitats of endangered or threatened species,
                    environmentally important natural resource areas, or other environmental
                    resources. All affected property owners must be notified of the rerouting
                    by the loan recipient and must be provided an opportunity to comment on
                    the proposed rerouting prior to initiation of construction.

C.   Issuance of the Environmental Action.

     Copies of all environmental actions will be provided to the appropriate intergovernmental
     review agencies listed in Rule 6.3.A.(2)(f) of this regulation. Copies of environmental
     actions will also be sent to any agency, group or individual requesting them. All
     environmental actions will also be published in an appropriate local newspaper.

     All environmental actions will provide for at least a thirty day period from the date of
     publication to receive comments from agencies groups, or individuals. All such
     comments will be evaluated by the Department before finalizing any environmental
     action.

D.   Resolution of Adverse Comments.

     Adverse comments received as a result of the environmental review process will be


                                             356
addressed in the following manner:

(1)    The Department will first require the loan recipient to attempt to resolve the
       adverse comments.

(2)    If the loan recipient is unable to resolve the adverse comments, the Department
       will render a decision concerning the adverse comments.

(3)    Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
       comments desire to appeal the above decision, a request for an informal hearing
       must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
       decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an informal hearing will be held with
       staff members, as designated by the Executive Director, and the affected parties.
       The Executive Director will render a decision on the appeal as a result of the
       informal hearing.

(4)    Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
       comments desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a request for a
       formal hearing by the Commission must be received by the Department within 30
       days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of such a request, the
       Commission will hold a formal hearing to consider the matter and will render a
       decision.

(5)    Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
       in accordance with state law.




                                       357
                                          APPENDIX C

                   Procurement Requirements for WPCRLF Loan Recipients

In the procurement of all construction, equipment, materials, supplies, professional and
nonprofessional services and all other costs related to the WPCRLF project, all loan recipients
must comply with state purchasing laws as they relate to local governments.

The procurement and conduct of all professional engineering and land surveying services must
also be in accordance with the Code of Conduct and other guidance and interpretations
established by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.

The procurement and conduct of all construction contracts must also be in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Contractors and other guidance and
interpretations established by the Mississippi State Board of Contractors.

All loan recipients must submit a procurement certification stating that the loan recipient has
reviewed the proposed costs in sufficient detail to determine that these costs are reasonable and
indicating that all of the above referenced requirements have been and will be met. If any of the
above procurement requirements are violated, the Department may determine that the related
costs are unallowable and may require repayment of all WPCRLF Loan funds paid for such
costs, in accordance with Rule 6.3.H.(6) of these regulations.




                                               358
                                          APPENDIX D

             Minority and Women’s Business Enterprise Requirements (MBE/WBE)

These MBE/WBE requirements apply to all projects funded within a fiscal year in which federal
capitalization grants to the Department require such compliance. The Department will establish
“fair share” objectives for participation by minority and women’s business enterprises in
WPCRLF funded projects. The loan recipient must undertake the following steps in the
procurement of materials, equipment, supplies, and construction:

       (1)     Include qualified minority and women’s businesses on solicitation lists,

       (2)     Assure that minority and women’s businesses are solicited whenever they are
               potential sources,

       (3)     Divide total requirements, when economically feasible, into small tasks or
               quantities to permit maximum participation by minority and women’s businesses,

       (4)     Establish delivery schedules, when practical which will encourage participation
               by minority and women’s businesses,

       (5)     Use the services of the Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the Mississippi
               Department of Economic and Community Development and the Contract
               Procurement Centers of the U.S. Department of Commerce, as appropriate, and

       (6)     Require the contractor to take the five (5) steps listed above, if the contractor
               awards subcontracts.

The loan recipient, engineer, and prime contractor(s) must also follow the guidance in the
Department document “Utilization of Minority and Women’s Business Enterprises.”

Minority and women’s business enterprises must be certified by the Mississippi Department of
Economic & Community Development, Office of Minority Business Enterprises or the
Mississippi Department of Transportation.




                                                359
                                          APPENDIX E

                                    Debarment and Suspension

The Department is prohibited from entering into loan agreements with loan applicants that have
been debarred or suspended by any state or federal agency.

Loan recipients are prohibited from entering into contractual agreements with individuals,
businesses, organizations, or any other entities that have been debarred or suspended by any state
or federal agency.

Loan recipients are responsible for ensuring that prime contractors utilized on the project are not
debarred or suspended. Likewise, prime contractors are responsible for ensuring that
subcontractors utilized on the project are not debarred or suspended.

Anyone may contact the Department concerning the existence of a cause for debarment or
suspension. The Department may refer the matter to the State Attorney General or other
appropriate office for further investigation. If, after review or investigation, the Department
reasonably believes that a cause for debarment exists, the Department may propose debarment or
suspension and may initiate procedures similar to, but not necessarily identical to, federal
regulation 40 CFR Part 32: Debarment and Suspension Under EPA Assistance Programs.

Such above described debarment or suspension actions will not affect existing executed
contractual agreements, unless such agreements have been terminated or suspended under the
terms of the agreement by the loan recipient.




                                                360
                                        APPENDIX F

                  WPCRLF Loan Recipient/Department Disputes Procedures

Only WPCRLF loan recipients may submit a notice of dispute (disagreement) with a decision
made by the Department, with the exception of decisions regarding Appendix B, State
Environmental Review Process, of these regulations. The following procedures will be used to
resolve disputes between the loan recipient and the Department:

       (1)    Within any deadlines established by the Department, the loan recipient must
              submit a written notice of dispute with a Department decision, including a
              summary of the dispute and reasons the loan recipient believes the Department
              decision should be reversed.

       (2)    The Department staff will then render a written decision on the dispute and will
              include reasons for the decision.

       (3)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the Department staff decision, a request
              for an informal hearing must be received by the Department within 30 days after
              the date of the Department staff decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an
              informal hearing will be held with staff members, as designated by the Executive
              Director, and the affected parties. The Executive Director will render a decision
              on the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       (4)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a
              request for a formal hearing before the Commission must be received by the
              Department within 30 days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of such a
              request, the Commission will hold a formal hearing to consider the matter and
              will render a decision.

       (5)    Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              361
                                          APPENDIX G

                                     Waste, Fraud and Abuse

The loan recipient is responsible for preventing, detecting, and prosecuting waste, fraud, abuse,
and all other corrupt practices which occur in relation to the WPCRLF loan project.

If the loan recipient becomes aware of any allegation, evidence, or the appearance of corrupt
practices, the loan recipient must:

       (1)     Immediately inform the Department in writing.

       (2)     Promptly pursue available state and local legal, administrative, and contractual
               remedies.

The Department may disallow costs under the WPCRLF loan agreement when the costs are
determined to be related to waste, fraud, abuse or other corrupt practices. The Department may
also require repayment of WPCRLF loan funds paid for such costs in accordance with Rule
6.3.H.(6) of these regulations.




                                               362
                                       APPENDIX H

                    Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements

All WPCRLF loan recipients must maintain project accounts in accordance with generally
accepted government accounting standards, as defined by the Guidelines of the Municipal
Accounting and Audit Manual, as prescribed by the State Auditor’s Office. Charges to the
project account must be properly supported, related to allowable construction costs, and
documented by appropriate records. These project accounts must be maintained as separate
accounts.




                                             363
                                          APPENDIX I

                                 Procurement Protest Procedures

This Appendix sets forth the process for the resolution of procurement protests filed with the
loan recipient by an adversely affected party. The Loan Recipient’s protest procedures must
include these requirements:

       (1)     Prior to advertisement for bids, the loan recipient must establish its own
               procedures for prompt consideration of initial protests concerning solicitations or
               contract awards. A “protest” is a written complaint concerning the loan
               recipient’s solicitation or award of a contract. The protest must be filed with the
               loan recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a
               loan recipient's procurement action and must be filed in accordance with and
               within the time frame established by the loan recipient’s protest procedures.

       (2)     Any party which transmits any document concerning the protest during the course
               of a protest and protest resolution must simultaneously furnish all other affected
               parties with a copy of all documents in the transmittal.

       (3)     Upon receipt of a protest, the loan recipient must make a determination on the
               protest in accordance with the loan recipient’s protest procedures within thirty
               (30) calendar days after such protest or sooner, if so required by the loan
               recipient’s procurement protest procedures.

       (4)     The party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan recipient’s
               determination of the protest may appeal such a determination only through the
               appropriate court of competent jurisdiction, provided such appeal is initiated
               within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the determination.

       (5)     Any delay due to a protest or protest resolution will not relieve the loan recipient
               of the requirement to meet the project schedule established in the loan agreement,
               nor will such delays prevent the Department from pursuing the remedies for
               default established in the loan agreement.




                                                364
                                          APPENDIX J

             Applicable State and Federal Laws, Regulations, and Executive Orders

During the planning, design, construction, and operation of the project, the loan recipient shall
comply with all applicable laws and regulations and shall acquire all applicable permits as
described in the Departmental publication “Environmental Permit Directory," or its successor.
The applicable related state laws and regulations are listed below. The WPCRLF regulations are
not complete without these laws and regulations:
State Laws and Regulations

       A.      Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications for Air and Water
               Pollution Control Permits.

       B       Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters.

       C.      Mississippi Nonhazardous Waste Management Regulations.

       D.      Mississippi Coastal Wetlands Protection Law, Section 49-27-1 through 49-27-69
               of the Mississippi Code Annotated (Supp. 1989), et seq.

       E.      Mississippi Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and Control
               of Air Contaminants.

       F.      Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
               System (NPDES), Underground and Injection Control (UIC) and State Operating
               Permits.

       G.      The Nongame and Endangered Species Conservation Act, Sections 49-5-101
               through 45-5-119 of the Mississippi Code.

       H.      The State Antiquities Law, Section 39-7-3, et seq. of the Mississippi Code of
               1972.

       I.      State of Mississippi Regulations for the Certification of Municipal and Domestic
               Wastewater Facility Operators.

       J.      Mississippi Municipal and Domestic Water and Wastewater System Operators
               Certification Act of 1986, Sections 21-27-201 through 21-27-221 Mississippi
               Code of 1972 Annotated.

       K.      Mississippi State Purchasing Laws, Title 31, Mississippi Code 1972, annotated.

       L.      Mississippi State Engineering and Surveying Law, Sections 73-13-1 through 73-
               13-99 Mississippi Code 1972, annotated, and rules and regulation of procedure



                                               365
     promulgated thereunder by Mississippi State Board of Registration for
     Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.

M.   Mississippi Real Property Acquisition Policies Law Section 43-37-1 through 13.




                                    366
                           Federal Laws and Executive Orders

A    Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Pub. L. 94-135.

B.   Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. 88-352.

C.   Section 13 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. 92-
     500 (the Clean Water Act).

D.   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-112 (including Executive
     Orders 11914 and 11250).




                                           367
                                          APPENDIX K

                            Loan Agreement Defaults and Remedies

Each of the following events is a default of a loan agreement:

(1)    Failure of the Loan Recipient to make any loan repayment when it is due and such failure
       shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days.

(2)    Failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement or in the performance or
       observance of any of the covenants or actions required by the Agreement.

(3)    Any warranty, representation or other statement by, or on behalf of, the Loan Recipient
       contained in the Agreement or in any information furnished in compliance with, or in
       reference to, the Agreement, which is false or misleading in any material respect.

(4)    An order or decree entered, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, appointing a
       receiver of any part of the Project or Revenues thereof; or if such order or decree, having
       been entered without the consent or acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, shall not be
       vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after the entry thereof.

(5)    Any proceeding instituted, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, for the purpose
       of effecting a compromise between the Loan Recipient and its creditors or for the purpose
       of adjusting the claims of such creditors, pursuant to any federal or state statute now or
       hereafter enacted, if the claims of such creditors are payable from Revenues of the
       Project.

(6)    Any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar proceeding instituted by, or against, the
       Loan Recipient under federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency laws now or hereafter in
       effect and, if instituted against the Loan Recipient, is not dismissed within sixty (60) days
       after filing.

(7)    Failure to give timely notice of default as required below when such failure shall continue
       for a period of thirty (30) days.

The Loan Recipient shall give the Department immediate written notice of an event of default.
Upon any event of default and subject to the rights of bondholders with prior liens, the
Department may enforce its rights by utilizing one or more of the following remedies:

(1)    By mandamus or other proceeding at law or in equity, cause to establish and collect fees
       and charges for use of the Project and to require the Loan Recipient to fulfill the
       Agreement.

(2)    By action or suit in equity, require the Loan Recipient to account for all moneys received
       from the Department or from the ownership of the Project and to account for the receipt,
       use, application or disposition of the Revenues.


                                               368
(3)    By action or suit in equity, enjoin any acts or things which may be unlawful or in
       violation of the rights of the Department.

(4)    By applying to a court of competent jurisdiction, cause to appoint a receiver to manage
       the Project, establish and collect fees and charges, and apply the Revenues to the
       reduction of the obligations under this Agreement.

(5)    By certifying to the Tax Commissioner delinquency on loan repayments, the Department
       may intercept the delinquent amount, plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest on the
       amount due to the Department, from any unobligated funds due to the Loan Recipient
       under any revenue or tax sharing fund established by the State. Penalty interest shall
       accrue on any amount due and payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th) day following the
       date upon which payment is due. The penalty interest shall be compounded monthly.

(6)    By notifying financial market credit rating agencies.

(7)    By administratively charging or suing for payment of amounts due, or becoming due,
       plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest which shall accrue on any amount due and
       payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th) day after such notification by the Department,
       together with all costs of collection, including attorneys’ fees. The penalty interest shall
       be compounded monthly.

(8)    By accelerating the repayment schedule or increasing the interest rate.

(9)    By withholding payments to the Loan Recipient.

(10)   By terminating the Agreement, after providing thirty (30) days written notice of such
       intent to terminate the Agreement. Such termination will not affect the duty of the Loan
       Recipient to repay loan funds paid thus far.

No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon event of default shall impair
any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or acquiescence
therein, and every such right and power may be exercised as often as may be deemed expedient.
No waiver of any default under this Agreement shall extend to or affect any subsequent event of
default, whether of the same or different provision of this Agreement, or shall impair consequent
rights or remedies.




                                                369
                                           APPENDIX L

                         Loan Recipient/Contractor Claims and Disputes.

The Department is not a party to any contract between the WPCRLF loan recipient and
construction contractor(s), engineer(s), attorney(s), equipment supplier(s), subcontractor(s) or
any other parties.

Upon execution of any contract between the loan recipient and any other party in regard to a
WPCRLF funded project, the Department does not assume any authorities, duties,
responsibilities, or liabilities under such a contract.

The Department does not have any authority, duty, responsibility, or liability in contract claims
or dispute identification, negotiation, resolution, or any other actions regarding contract claims or
disputes under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and any other party.

No actions taken by the Department, either directly or indirectly, in regard to the WPCRLF loan
funded project constitute or establish any determinations, authority, duty, responsibility, or
liability under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and any other party.

The loan recipient and the contracting party must resolve all claims and disputes by negotiation,
arbitration, litigation, or other means as provided in the contract documents and state law, prior
to submission of any related change order or contract amendment to the Department for review
and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan allowability determination.




                                                370
                                         APPENDIX M

                                           Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, will have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

(1)    Act – The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq.,
       including any amendments.

(2)    Administration Fees – Those fees charged to the loan recipient by the Commission to
       defray the reasonable costs of administering the revolving fund.

(3)    Allowable Costs – Those project costs that are eligible, reasonable, necessary, allocable
       to the project, within the established project scope and budget, in conformance with the
       WPCRLF regulations, and determined allowable by the Department.

(4)    Authorized Representative – The signatory agent of the applicant authorized and directed
       by the applicant’s governing body to make application for assistance and to sign
       documents on behalf of the applicant, as required to undertake and complete the project.
       The signatory agent must be a member or an employee of the applicant’s governing body
       and may not be under a separate contract with the applicant at any time during the
       execution of the project.

(5)    Binding Commitment – A WPCRLF loan offer, as described in these regulations.

(6)    Budget Period – The time period beginning on the date established in the loan agreement
       and ending on the date 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation,
       during which allowable costs may be incurred.

(7)    Change Order – The documents, including supporting documentation, executed by the
       loan recipient and the construction contractor, upon recommendation of the engineer if
       required by the contract documents, authorizing a change, alteration, or variance in the
       plans, specifications, and contract documents, including, but not limited to, additions or
       deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract or a change in costs or time for
       work performed after execution of the contract.

(8)    Collector Sewer – The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment system,
       which are primarily installed to receive wastewater directly from facilities which convey
       wastewater from individual systems or from private property.

(9)    Commission – The Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality or its successors.

(10)   Consolidation Project – The acquisition of an existing entity or its treatment works by
       another or the merger of two entities.



                                              371
(11)   Construction – Any one or more of the following: erection, building, acquisition,
       alteration, repair, improvement or extension of treatment works.

(12)   Department – The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, and its designated
       representatives or successors.

(13)   Eligible Applicant – Any county, municipality, municipal public utility, authority,
       district, political subdivision or other governmental unit created under state law which
       has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater, industrial wastewater, wastewater
       sludges resulting from the treatment of such wastewater, stormwater, or nonpoint sources
       of pollution, has the authority under State law to receive WPCRLF loan assistance, has
       the ability to comply with these regulations and the requirements of the WPCRLF loan
       agreement, and which is not in arrears in repayments to the Water Pollution Control
       Revolving Fund, the Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund, the Water Pollution
       Abatement Loan Fund or any other loan.

(14)   Eligible Costs – Costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant to
       applicable statute.

(15)   Engineer – Unless otherwise indicated, the engineer, or engineering firm, registered by
       the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
       Surveyors, retained or employed by the loan recipient to provide professional engineering
       services during the planning, design and/or construction of the project.

(16)   Executive Director – The executive director of the Mississippi Department of
       Environmental Quality or his designee.

(17)   Financial Capability Summary – A financial analysis of a water pollution control system
       to determine whether the system has the capability to reliably meet the financial
       obligations on a long term basis.

(18)   Force Account – Involves the use of the loan recipient’s employees, equipment for
       construction, construction related activities and/or architectural and engineering services.

(19)   Infiltration – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such means as
       defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does not include, and
       is distinguished from, inflow.

(20)   Inflow – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service
       connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from sources such as,
       but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs
       and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary
       sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or
       drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.



                                                372
(21)   Interceptor Sewer – A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:

       (a)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed collector
              sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or another
              interceptor or pump station.

       (b)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the wastes to an
              adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance to a treatment plant.

       (c)    To transport wastewater, together with quantities of infiltration and inflow that are
              not admitted intentionally, from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (d)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated wastewater for
              transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to a treatment plant.

(22)   Interlocal Agreement – An agreement or contract between the loan applicant/recipient
       and other entities relating to use, enforcement or finances of the project or treatment
       works, which may be necessary to ensure completion and operation, and maintenance of
       a useful project.

(23)   Loan Agreement – A legal and binding agreement between the Department and the loan
       recipient through which the Department provides WPCRLF assistance for eligible and
       allowable costs and the recipient agrees to repay any administrative fees to the
       Department and the principal sum and interest to the WPCRLF over a period and at an
       interest rate established in the loan agreement.

(24)   Loan Applicant – An eligible applicant that applies or intends to apply for financial
       assistance from the WPCRLF program

(25)   Loan Recipient – An eligible applicant that executes a WPCRLF loan agreement.

(26)   Overflows and Bypasses – Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or bypasses
       any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment and discharge in
       accordance with the permit.

(27)   Project – The scope of work for which financial assistance is provided under the
       WPCRLF loan agreement.

(28)   Project Completion – The date of the final construction observation as performed by the
       Department for the purpose of a loan allowability determination.

(29)   Repayment – Administrative fees, principal and interest repayments on WPCRLF loans
       as established in the loan agreement.



                                               373
(30)   Service Line – A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with quantities of
       infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from residences, public
       buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.

(31)   Title Counsel or Legal Counsel – The attorney(s) of record, legally practicing, who
       provide(s) legal advice and certifications relating to the project for the loan
       applicant/recipient.

(32)   Treatment Works – Any devices and systems which are used in the storage, treatment,
       transportation, recycling, and reclamation of domestic, industrial, and/or commercial
       wastewater, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
       service lines, pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions,
       improvements, repair, additions, and alterations thereof; and any works, including the
       land that will be an integral part of, or used in connection with, the treatment process
       (including land used for the storage of treated water in land treatment systems prior to
       land application) or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
       treatment; and any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing,
       treating, separating, or disposing of domestic, industrial, and/or commercial wastewater,
       stormwater runoff, wastewater in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer systems, and
       nonpoint source pollution.

(33)   User Charge Ordinance – A legally enforceable ordinance, regulation or corporate
       resolution enacted by the loan recipient which includes, at least by reference, the user
       charge system, and establishes user charge rates, to generate adequate revenues to cover
       all costs of the treatment works, as required by the user charge system.

(34)   User Charge System – The system by which the loan recipient charges users of the
       treatment works rates that produce adequate revenues required for operation,
       maintenance, replacement of equipment, retirement of existing debt, and repayment of
       the WPCRLF loan for the project.

(35)   Value Engineering – A specialized cost control technique which uses a systematic and
       creative approach to identify and focus on high costs in a project in order to arrive at a
       cost saving without sacrificing the purpose, reliability or efficiency of the project.

(36)   WPALP – The Water Pollution Abatement Loan Program

(37)   WPCELF – The Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

(38)   WPCRLF – The Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund.




                                                374
Part 6, Chapter 7: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Water Pollution
Control Revolving Loan Fund Program Regulations (Effective For Projects Funded On
and After December 19, 2004)


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS
______________________________

Rule 7.1 Introductory Provisions

Rule 7.2 Program Requirements

Rule 7.3 Project Requirements

APPENDICES

A.    Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs
B.    State Environmental Review Process
C.    Procurement Requirements for WPCRLF Loan Recipients
D.    Minority and Women’s Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) Requirements
E.    Debarment and Suspension
F.    WPCRLF Loan Recipient/Department Disputes Procedures
G.    Waste, Fraud and Abuse
H.    Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements
I.    Procurement Protest Procedures
J.    Applicable State and Federal Laws, Regulations and Executive Orders
K.    Loan Agreement Defaults and Remedies
L.    Loan Recipient/Contractor Claims and Disputes
M.    Definitions
__________________________________

Rule 7.1 Introductory Provisions.

A.     Scope of Regulations. These regulations, adopted pursuant to Sections 49-17-81 through
       89, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, shall govern the Mississippi Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF) Program. These WPCRLF regulations may be
       superceded by the WPCRLF loan agreement when such a variance is determined prudent
       by the Executive Director and when not in conflict with any state or federal law,
       regulation, or executive order.

B.     Federal Equivalence and Cross-Cutter Requirements. Federal regulation 40 CFR
       35.3135(f) requires that “equivalency” projects funded under the State Water Pollution
       Control Revolving Fund must comply with sixteen specific requirements of Title II (the
       EPA Construction Grants Program) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
       “Equivalency” projects are generally defined as wastewater projects constructed with
       funds which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State for this program.


                                             375
       Similarly, 40 CFR 35.3145 requires that the State must also require all recipients of funds
       which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State to comply with certain other
       “cross-cutting” federal authorities. Cross-cutting authorities are federal laws and
       authorities that apply to these projects independent of the federal Water Pollution Act and
       subsequent amendments.

       Since the beginning of this program in FY-89 and continuing through FY-00, the
       Department required that all projects receiving loan funding meet federal equivalency
       and cross-cutter requirements and has banked the amount of these loan awards in excess
       of the federal capitalization grants toward meeting equivalency and cross-cutter
       requirements of future federal capitalization grants. Accordingly, the Department has
       determined that beginning in FY-01, projects funded in this program will not be required
       to meet all federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements, and this practice will
       continue until the banked equivalency requirements are exhausted.

       Thus, almost all of these federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements are excluded
       from these regulations. However, certain of these requirements have been retained in
       order to secure a reasonable assurance that the Department funds projects that are
       environmentally sound, that the loan recipient can construct, operate, and maintain the
       project and repay the loan, that these public funds are adequately protected and expended
       only for their intended purpose, and as otherwise required by federal law and regulations.
       Also, certain federal requirements are mandatory for all projects and are listed in
       Appendix J.

Source: Miss. Code §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 7.2 Program Requirements.

A.     Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
       must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Appendix M of these
       regulations, as determined by the Department.

B.     Intended Use Plan (IUP). In each fiscal year for which funds are available in the
       WPCRLF, the Commission will establish and publish an IUP in conformance with
       federal requirements. The IUP includes a mechanism developed by the Department to
       prioritize potential projects for uses of the available funds. The IUP describes the
       intended use of the funds in the WPCRLF and how the uses support the goals of the
       program.

C.     Reserves. The Commission may reserve certain percentages of the State’s federal Title
       VI allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the WPCRLF program and for
       planning under Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state
       law. The Commission may also charge administrative fees to loan recipients for
       administration of the WPCRLF program, as established in each year’s IUP.




                                               376
D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission will establish
     and provide for public comment on and review of the annual IUP. The Department may
     take into consideration any comments prior to adoption of the annual IUP. After adoption
     by the Commission, modification to these documents may be adopted by the Commission
     as provided for in the IUP without further public comment and review.

E.   WPCRLF Uses. The fund may be used for the following purposes, or as established in
     the IUP, for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans to eligible applicants on the condition that:

            (a)    Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                   exceed 20 years after project completion, or for such period as may be
                   allowed by federal law.

            (b)    The loan applicant shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                   repayment of loans.

            (c)    The fund shall be credited with all payments of principal and interest on
                   all loans.

            (d)    The loan applicant is in compliance with WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)    Under the conditions in (1) above, to refinance the debt obligation of loan
            recipients when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or
            after such date as established in the IUP for a given fiscal year. The loan applicant
            agrees that, by pursuing such a refinancing arrangement, it does so at its own risk
            and thereby relieves the Commission and Department of all responsibility and
            liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
            funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)    As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
            revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
            of such bonds will be deposited in the WPCRLF and provided such authority is
            established in state law.

     (4)    For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCRLF program and conducting
            activities under Title VI of the Act.

     (5)    To earn interest on WPCRLF accounts.

F.   WPCRLF Financial Assistance.

     (1)    The WPCRLF has been established to provide loans to eligible loan applicants for
            the purpose of funding:



                                            377
            (a)    Construction of publicly owned treatment works as defined in Section 212
                   of the Act.

            (b)    Implementation of nonpoint source pollution management programs
                   established under Section 319 of the Act.

            (c)    Development and implementation of estuary                conservation    and
                   management plans under Section 320 of the Act.

     (2)    Basic financial assistance requirements are as follows:

            (a)    Section 212 projects shall be included on the fundable or planning portion
                   of the Priority List in the current year’s IUP.

            (b)    Terms of any financial assistance shall be as established in the IUP for the
                   projects to be funded in each fiscal year and shall be further established in
                   the loan agreement.

            (c)    The loan applicant or recipient shall comply with the requirements of the
                   Act, as amended, all applicable state laws, requirements, regulations, and
                   the annual IUP.

            (d)    The applicant must not be in violation of any provisions of a previously
                   awarded WPCRLF, WPCELF or WPALP loan agreement.

            (e)    The applicant must not be in arrears in repayments to the WPCRLF, the
                   WPCELF, the WPALP or on any other loan.

            (f)    Funds will not be disbursed to loan recipients until the loan recipient has
                   entered into a WPCRLF loan agreement with the Department.

            (g)    The WPCRLF program will provide assistance only to projects that are
                   consistent with any water quality management plans developed under
                   sections 205(j), 208, 303(e), 319 and 320 of the Act as applicable.

G.   State Capitalization Grant Application. After the Commission adopts each annual IUP,
     the Executive Director may submit the IUP with an application to the appropriate federal
     agency for any available federal funds.

H.   WPCRLF Program Administration. The WPCRLF Program will be administered by the
     Commission acting through the Department, in accordance with the Act, applicable
     federal regulations, state law and these regulations.

I    Responsibility. The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for compliance with all
     applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and for the proper planning, design,
     construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal integrity of


                                            378
       the project. The Department’s approval of any document does not relieve the
       applicant/loan recipient or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department
       review and/or approval of any document is for loan eligibility/allowability purposes and
       does not establish or convey any such liability or responsibility.

J.     Other Approvals. The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary
       documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
       in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

 Rule 7.3 Project Requirements. All water pollution control projects funded by the WPCRLF
 must comply with the following requirements. Non-point source pollution control projects and
 estuary management projects must comply with these requirements to the extent described in
 the loan application and loan agreement, as established by the Department.

A.     Facilities Planning.

       (1)    Preplanning Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide facilities
              planning guidance to the potential applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan
              applicant and/or its engineer should attend a preplanning conference with the
              Department as early in the planning process as practical. During the conference
              the staff will provide information on the required facilities planning documents
              necessary to comply with these regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared
              by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer registered
              under Mississippi law.

       (2)    Contents of the Facilities Plan. The facilities plan must comply with the
              Department’s guidance, including updates, Appendices A, B and J of these
              regulations and any other requirements of the Department pursuant to review of
              the facilities plan. The facilities plan must generally contain the following, as
              determined appropriate by the Department:

              (a)     A description of the existing water pollution control facilities, if any,
                      owned by the applicant.

              (b)     A description of the existing and/or future water pollution problem or
                      threat to be addressed by the proposed project.

              (c)     Documentation of sufficient flow monitoring and/or estimation to quantify
                      wastewater, infiltration and inflow, applicable effluent limitations, and any
                      other technical data necessary to provide the basis for preliminary
                      engineering design of the project.




                                               379
(d)   A description of the proposed facilities, costs, location, and how the
      proposed facilities will address the existing and/or future water pollution
      problem or threat identified in the plan.

(e)   A demonstration that minorities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
      loan applicant will not be systematically excluded from the benefits of the
      proposed projects.

(f)   A specific indication that each applicable intergovernmental review
      agency has been contacted regarding the proposed project, any adverse
      comments from the applicable intergovernmental review agencies, and an
      indication of all necessary permit applications and environmental survey
      clearances that will be required for the project. Intergovernmental review
      agencies are as follows:

      (1)    Mississippi Department of Archives and History (for
             archaeological/cultural resources review under the State
             Antiquities Law)

      (2)    Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks-Natural
             Heritage Program (for vegetative/wildlife review under the
             Nongame and Endangered Species Conservation Act)

      (3)    U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (for
             Section 404 {wetlands}, Section 10 {navigable waterways}, and
             floodplain impact review)

      (4)    Mississippi Department of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison,
             and Hancock County Projects only; for Mississippi Coastal
             Program and applicable Mississippi law review)

      (5)    U.S. Forest Service (projects located in a federally designated Wild
             and Scenic River Basin only, for federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
             Act compliance)


(g)   For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, a comparative
      evaluation of the no-action alternative and the proposed alternative, which
      accounts for beneficial and adverse consequences that each alternative
      would have on existing and future environmental resources, as required by
      Appendix B.

(h)   A financial capability summary using planning level cost estimates.

(i)   For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, (1) proof of publication
      of the notice to the public of the proposed project and for the opportunity


                              380
                  to comment on alternatives and to examine environmental review
                  documents, including the facilities plan and any comments, permits, or
                  clearances from the intergovernmental review agencies, (2) a copy of any
                  comments received from the public, and (3) a description of how all
                  comments were addressed.

           (j)    For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act and determined by the
                  Department to be controversial, (1) proof of publication of the public
                  hearing notice published in a local newspaper of general circulation
                  providing at least a 30 day advance notice of a public hearing to be held
                  by the loan applicant, (2) a copy of the transcript of the public hearing and
                  (3) a description of how all comments were addressed.

           (k)    Calculations showing the necessary user charges for the project using
                  planning level cost estimates.

     (3)   State Environmental Review Process. For projects defined under Section 212 of
           the Act, prior to approval of the facilities plan, the Department will complete the
           appropriate portions of the state environmental review process described in
           Appendix B of these regulations, based upon information provided in the facilities
           plan.

     (4)   Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department will approve the facilities plan after
           completing any applicable state environmental review process and after
           determining that all facilities planning requirements appear to be met.

B.   Application for WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Preapplication Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide a loan
           application package to the potential loan applicant and/or its engineer. The
           potential loan applicant and/or its engineer may request a pre-application
           conference with the Department as early in the application process as practical.

     (2)   Contents of an Application Package. Forms provided by the Department must be
           used and may not be altered. The WPCRLF loan application may include
           assistance only for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendix A of
           these regulations and may include a contingency, as determined by the
           Department, in the project budget. The application package must conform to these
           regulations, and must include the following:

           (a)    A WPCRLF loan application form with original signature. Sources of all
                  funds other than WPCRLF must be identified. Prior to loan award, the
                  Department must receive an assurance from all other funding sources that
                  other funds necessary to construct an operable project are or will be
                  available on a schedule compatible with that required in the loan
                  agreement.


                                           381
(b)   A proposed user charge system and ordinance.

(c)   All proposed or executed contracts for construction phase engineering
      services.

(d)   All other proposed or executed contracts (administration, legal, facilities
      planning, design, and any other services), if WPCRLF participation is
      requested.

(e)   An allowable cost certification for each executed contract submitted for
      WPCRLF participation, wherein the loan applicant and professional
      certify that all costs associated with professional services are WPCRLF
      eligible and reasonable.

(f)   A procurement certification, wherein the loan applicant and counsel
      certify that the loan applicant will adhere to state purchasing laws, as they
      apply to local governments.

(g)   A revised financial capability summary using the most recent cost
      estimates, if significantly greater than that shown in the facilities plan.

(h)   Copies of issued permits or clearance letters from all required
      intergovernmental review agencies.

(i)   A legal certification, wherein the loan applicant and legal counsel
      certify that the loan applicant is an eligible applicant in accordance with
      Appendix M of these regulations.

(j)   A resolution by the loan applicant’s governing body which 1) authorizes
      the submission of the application and 2) designates an authorized office or
      representative to make application for assistance, to execute the loan
      agreement and any amendments and to sign documents, on behalf of the
      applicant, required to undertake and complete the project.

(k)   A copy of all existing or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
      project, if applicable. Such agreements must be executed by all
      appropriate parties and must be approved by the Department prior to loan
      offer.

(l)   An executed Pre-Award Compliance Review Report (EPA Form 4700-4),

(m)   All waste disposal permit applications.

(n)   All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information that may
      be required by the Department.


                                382
C.   Offer of a WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements of the
           WPCRLF loan application have been met, (b) the facilities plan has been
           approved, (c) the project is on the current year priority list and (d) funds are
           available for the amount of the WPCRLF loan application, the Executive Director
           will execute and transmit a WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. The loan
           agreement will include a project schedule consistent with time frames established
           in these regulations; however, the Department may vary these time frames and/or
           establish additional ones.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
           return it within the time frame established in the WPCRLF loan offer. The loan
           offer becomes void if not executed and returned within the time frame specified,
           unless extended by the Executive Director.

D.   Design.

     (1)   Predesign Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide design
           guidance to the loan applicant/recipient and/or its engineer, who may request a
           predesign conference with the Department.

     (2)   Plans, Specifications, Contract Documents, and Related Submittals.

           (a)    General Requirements. By the dates specified in the loan agreement, the
                  loan recipient must submit to the Department complete plans,
                  specifications, contract documents, and the applicable related submittals
                  listed below for each contract. The engineer must prepare plans,
                  specifications, and contract documents on all appropriate elements of the
                  project. These documents must conform to Department requirements, to
                  Appendices A, B, C, D, E, I, J and L of these regulations, and to the
                  requirements of Departmental design guidance.

           (b)    Contents In addition to the above, the plans, specifications, and contract
                  documents must minimally contain the following:

                  (1)    Provisions assuring compliance with these regulations and all
                         relevant federal and state laws.

                  (2)    Forms by which the bid bond, performance bond and payment
                         bonds will be provided.

                  (3)    Provisions for the recipient to retain a certain percentage of the
                         progress payments otherwise due to the contractor, in accordance
                         with state law.


                                          383
      (4)    Provisions requiring the contractor to obtain and maintain the
             appropriate insurance coverage.

      (5)    Provisions giving authorized representatives of the loan recipient
             access to all construction activities, books, records, and documents
             of the contractor for the purpose of observation, audit and copying
             during normal business and/or working hours.

      (6)    Provisions for compliance with any applicable Minority Business
             Enterprise/Women Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) requirements
             as described in Appendix D of these regulations.

      (7)    Provisions for change orders.

      (8)    Provisions for liquidated damages.

      (9)    Those conditions, specifications, and other provisions set forth or
             required by the Department.

(c)   Related Submittals

      (1)    A copy of the issued NPDES permit or the state operating permit,
             if required.

      (2)    A copy of the issued solid waste disposal permit, if required.

      (3)    A copy of the Permit Board’s variance, when it is not possible to
             provide buffer zones, if project includes wastewater or sludge
             treatment processes.

      (4)    For all loan ineligible real property necessary for the project,
             limited site certificates from both the loan recipient and the title
             counsel ich indicate that all such real property has been secured by
             at least one of the following actions:

             (i)     Clear title or an easement or lease for the expected life of
                     the project.

             (ii)    Execution by both parties of a bona fide option to purchase
                     or lease for the expected life of the project.

             (iii)   Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in court.

      (5)    For all loan eligible real property necessary for the project, limited
             site certificates from both the loan recipient and the title counsel


                              384
                          which indicate that all such real property has been secured by at
                          least one of the following actions:

                          (i)    Execution by both parties of a bona fide option to purchase
                                 the property or an easement

                          (ii)   Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in court

                          Prior to execution of the option to purchase and/or filing
                          condemnation, the loan recipient must submit an appraisal and
                          secure Department approval of the purchase price.

     (3)   Approval of Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.
           By the dates established in the loan agreement, the loan recipient must secure
           approval of the plans, specifications and contract documents for each contract by
           the Department. The Department will approve the plans, specifications, and
           contract documents upon determining that these documents appear to:

           (a)    Conform to the requirements of these regulations,

           (b)    Be approvable pursuant to a technical review, and

           (c)    Be consistent with the approved facilities planning documents and
                  environmental determinations required by these regulations.

E.   Construction Contracting and Loan Amendment.

     (1)   For each construction contract, within the time frame established in the loan
           agreement and prior to advertisement for construction bids, the loan recipient
           must a) secure necessary local funds and submit proof of such funds, b) submit
           any other required permits or clearances, and c) submit clear site certificates from
           both the loan recipient and the title counsel which indicate that all required real
           property has been secured.

     (2)   Within the time frames established in the loan agreement, the loan recipient must
           advertise each construction contract for bids.

     (3)   Within 45 days after advertisement for construction bids on each contract, the
           loan recipient must receive bids on that construction contract.

     (4)   Within 14 days after receipt of construction bids on each contract, the loan
           recipient must submit the MBE/WBE and related documentation for that contract
           as required by Appendix D of these regulations.

     (5)   Within 21 days after receipt of construction bids on each contract, the loan
           recipient must submit the bid package for that contract.


                                           385
     (6)    Within 21 days after receipt of construction bids on the last contract, the loan
            recipient must submit all necessary executed professional services contracts and
            amendments and a loan agreement amendment request (consistent with as-bid
            construction costs, actual professional services contract amounts, and a
            contingency as determined by the Department).

     (7)    After approval of the completed MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for
            each construction contract other than the last, the loan recipient may execute that
            contract.

     (8)    Upon receipt of the MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for the last
            construction contract, all necessary executed professional services contracts and
            amendments, and any loan agreement amendment request, the Department will
            review these documents, determine whether any request for an increased loan
            amount is justified and allowable, and determine whether funds are available.
            After approval of the MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for the last
            construction contract, the loan recipient may execute that contract.

     (9)    Within 60 days after receipt of bids for each construction contract, the loan
            recipient must execute the contract documents, must submit a copy of the
            executed contract documents, and must issue and submit a copy of the notice to
            proceed for that contract. The plans, specifications, and executed contract
            documents must not vary from those approved as loan eligible by the Department.
            The loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and must
            allow attendance and participation by the Department if such a conference is held.

     (10)   After approval of any loan agreement amendment request, the Department will
            prepare and transmit an amended WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. Upon
            receipt of an amended WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
            return it to the Department within the timeframe established in the offer letter.
            Any increased project costs in excess of those approved based upon as-bid
            construction amounts and a contingency (as established by the Department) must
            be paid from sources other than WPCRLF loan funds.

F.   Construction.

     (1)    Enacted User Charge System and Ordinance.

            By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement (based upon
            90% of construction contract time) the loan recipient must enact the approved
            user charge system and ordinance and submit proof of enactment.

     (2)    Observation During Construction.




                                            386
      The loan recipient must provide for adequate observation of all parts of the
      project by the engineer or his staff and must require the engineer’s assurance that
      the work is being performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the
      WPCRLF loan agreement and the approved plans, specifications, contract
      documents and approved change orders.

      The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
      time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
      loan recipient and engineer appear to be assuring that plans, specifications and
      contract documents are being followed. Such observation will not subject the
      Department to any legal action for claims, damages or any other liability. Such
      observation will not release the contractor from any obligation to perform the
      work in accordance with the requirements of the contract documents, or the
      engineer from determining compliance with the requirements of the contract
      documents, or the loan recipient from insuring compliance with the contract and
      the terms of the loan agreement.

      The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
      every reasonable opportunity and means for determining whether the loan
      recipient and engineer are assuring that the work is in accordance with the
      requirements of the approved plans, specifications and contract documents. The
      Department is authorized to observe and require submission by the loan recipient
      of daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared in
      relation to the WPCRLF funded project.

(3)   Construction Deficiencies.

      (a)    In the event that it appears to the Department that the loan recipient and
             engineer are not assuring that the construction work, materials, equipment
             or supplies are in conformity with approved plans and specifications, and
             contract documents, the Department may determine these items are
             unallowable for WPCRLF loan participation, unless the loan recipient
             takes action, through the engineer if applicable, in the manner provided for
             in the construction contract to correct any such deficiencies.

      (b)    The Department may withhold WPCRLF loan payments for such time that
             it appears that the loan recipient and engineer are not assuring that
             construction work, materials, equipment or supplies are in accordance
             with the approved plans, specifications and contract documents, and may
             require the loan recipient to repay any previously paid amounts related to
             such items within 30 days of such notification.

(4)   Change Orders.

      (a)    General



                                      387
      The loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute change orders pertaining
      to the construction that are necessary under the circumstances, as provided
      in the contract documents and when in accordance with state law. Contract
      price, time, quantity, and specifications may only be changed by change
      order. Change orders must not change, vary, or alter the basic purpose or
      effect of the project. Change orders must be technically adequate and
      conform to Department design guidance and regulations.
      Eligible/ineligible costs must be appropriately separated.

(b)   Change Order Submittals

      After completion of the change order negotiation process and/or claims
      resolution between the loan recipient and the contracting party, an
      executed change order must be submitted to the Department for review
      and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
      determination.

      If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
      and executed by the loan recipient, the contracting party, and the engineer
      if appropriate, the Department may return such change order without
      review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan recipient,
      and the engineer if appropriate, and identified as such, that are issued in
      accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to the
      Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan
      eligibility/allowability determination.

      The loan recipient may submit a complete change order which has been
      executed conditional upon a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
      determination by the Department.

      If possible, approval of a change order should be secured from the
      Department before the work is started, particularly for change orders
      including time extensions. Approval may also be secured after the work is
      started; however, the loan recipient must bear the cost if the work is later
      determined to be ineligible or unallowable.

      When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
      change order(s), the Department may issue an amendment to the loan
      agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient must
      execute the amendment within the time frame established by the
      Department.

(c)   Time Extensions




                              388
             Justification for all contract time extensions need not be submitted to the
             Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed 25%
             of the original contract time.

(5)   Contractor Bankruptcy or Default.

      In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or default, any proposed agreements with
      the bonding company (other than the bonding company serving as general
      contractor or hiring another contractor acting as their agent) must be submitted for
      a WPCRLF loan allowability determination by the Department prior to execution.
      If the loan recipient determines that re-award of the construction contract or a
      portion thereof is necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such
      proposed re-award contracts must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability
      determination by the Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be
      responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal
      requirement are observed in advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a
      construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(6)   Project Completion.

      (a)    Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction
             contract, the loan recipient must notify the Department of construction
             completion.

      (b)    Within 30 days after the current construction contract completion date for
             each contract, all change orders which include time extensions and/or the
             request and justification for delay required in (c) below must be submitted
             to the Department for an allowability determination.

      (c)    The Department will perform a final construction observation within 30
             days after the current construction contract completion date of the last
             contract, unless further delayed by the Department pursuant to review of
             the loan recipient’s request and justification for such delay. If, for any
             reason, the construction completion is being unreasonably delayed, as
             determined by the Department, a final construction observation may be
             immediately performed. The final construction observation by the
             Department is only for the purpose of determining loan allowable costs.

      (d)    Within 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation, the
             loan recipient must submit: final loan payment requests, approvable
             summary change orders for all construction contracts; record drawings for
             the entire project funded in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds; the
             engineer’s certification of compliance with plans, specifications, and
             contract documents; final professional services contract amendments, if
             any; and all other administrative forms and documents required by the



                                      389
                    loan agreement. Loan payment requests submitted after this date are
                    not allowable, regardless of when the costs were incurred.

             (e)    Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement must be
                    performed when required and are subject to review and approval by the
                    Department.

G. Loan Closeout Phase.

      (1)    The Department or other designated parties may perform an audit of the
             WPCRLF loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the
             WPCRLF loan agreement and to determine allowable costs, payments made to
             date, and any additional payments due the loan recipient or repayment due the
             Department. The Department will transmit to the loan recipient a copy of the audit
             report, if performed.

      (2)    Upon submittal of the items required or upon expiration of the deadline in Rule
             7.3.F.(6)(d) of these regulations, the Department will determine the final
             allowable costs. However, if at any time the loan recipient fails to comply with
             any deadline or requirement of these regulations or the loan agreement, the
             Department may immediately issue a final determination of allowable costs.

      (3)    Upon determination of final allowable costs by the Department, the Department
             will transmit to the loan recipient the final determination of allowable costs and
             payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State, and a final loan
             agreement between the loan recipient, the Department, and the State Tax
             Commission. The final determination letter will establish a 30-day appeal
             deadline and will require repayment of any overpayments with an interest penalty
             to begin accruing on the appeal deadline. The interest penalty will be as
             established in Rule 7.3.H.(6) of these regulations.

      (4)    Unless, within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan
             recipient submits a written appeal of the final determination, including a written
             justification of the reason for the appeal, and supporting documentation for any
             disputed costs of the final determination, the final determination of allowable
             costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of WPCRLF loan
             payments and the loan agreement, and the loan recipient must execute and submit
             the final loan agreement within the timeframe established by the Department.

      (5)    Should an appeal be submitted in accordance with (4) above, the disputes
             procedures established in Appendix F of these regulations will be followed in
             order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable costs. Upon
             resolution of a dispute of the final determination, the Department will transmit to
             the loan recipient a revised final loan agreement. The loan recipient must execute
             and submit to the Department the final loan agreement within the deadline
             established by the Department.


                                             390
     (6)   Upon receipt of an executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
           Department will transmit the final loan agreement to the State Tax Commission
           for execution and return to the Department.

     (7)   Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
           Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
           repayment of the WPCRLF loan will commence under the terms of the executed
           final loan agreement.

     (8)   If the project fails to perform properly at any time within the first year after the
           final construction observation performed by the Department, the loan recipient
           must immediately notify the Department of the reasons for lack of performance,
           submit an approvable schedule of corrective actions, and implement the corrective
           actions in accordance with the approved schedule.

H.   Payments to WPCRLF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCRLF may be made
     under the following conditions:

     (1)   Payments may only be requested by and made to loan recipients, in accordance
           with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the loan recipient’s executed and approved
           contracts for eligible and allowable services and construction, for work performed
           within the project scope and budget period.

     (2)   Payments may be requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as
           allowed by the Department.

     (3)   The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCRLF payment requests the amount
           of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
           funding sources for allowable WPCRLF project costs.

     (4)   Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
           must include the following:

           (a)    WPCRLF payment request form.

           (b)    Cumulative invoices, in accordance with the contracts for such work, for
                  all costs for which payment is requested.

           (c)    Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

     (5)   The timing of WPCRLF payments to the loan recipient will be as follows,
           provided the loan recipient is in compliance with the requirements of these
           regulations and provisions of the WPCRLF loan agreement:




                                           391
(a)    Upon execution of the loan agreement, facilities planning and application
       costs may be requested and paid. No further payments may be requested
       and paid except as allowed below.

(b)    Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
       loan agreement execution if the Department has approved the purchase
       price and the loan recipient has submitted a bona fide option to purchase
       or clear site certificates.

(c)    For each independent construction contract, upon completion of the
       requirements of Rule 7.3.D.(2) and (3) and E.(1) of these regulations,
       design and land acquisition costs related to that independent construction
       contract may be requested and paid.

        Where any construction contract is dependent upon another to function,
        the requirements of Rule 7.3.D.(2) and (3) and E.(1) of these
        regulations must be met for all such construction contracts in order for the
      related design and land acquisition costs for the dependent contract to be
        requested and paid. No further payments may be requested and paid
        except as allowed below.

(d)    For each independent construction contract, upon receipt by the
       Department of the executed contract documents and the notice to proceed,
       professional services costs related to that independent construction
       contract may be requested and paid.

       Where any construction contract is dependent upon another to function, all
       such executed construction contract documents and notice(s) to proceed
       must be submitted in order for the related professional services costs for
       the dependent contract to be requested and paid.

(e)    For each independent contract, upon receipt of the executed construction
       contract documents and notice to proceed for each construction contract,
       payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
       based upon in-place work or materials and equipment delivered to the
       construction location and as supported by invoices and verified as accurate
       by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.

       For any construction contract that is dependent upon another to function,
       upon receipt of all such executed construction contract documents and
       notice(s) to proceed, payments for allowable construction work may be
       requested and paid based upon in-place work or materials and equipment
       delivered to the construction location and as supported by invoices and
       verified as accurate by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.




                                392
            (f)    No more than 95% of all construction phase professional services will be
                   paid prior to completion of the requirements of Section III.F.(6) of these
                   regulations, and until the Department has determined the final allowable
                   project costs. The remaining amount may only be paid with the final
                   payment.

            (g)    The final payment may be paid after the Department has determined the
                   final allowable costs. Additional amounts from prior payments may be
                   withheld by the Department until the final payment, if the Department
                   determines that the final payment amount would otherwise be insufficient
                   for loan closeout purposes.

            (h)    The Department may establish conditions in the loan agreement that vary
                   from the above, including delaying payments, when determined prudent.

      (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by the
            Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement,
            for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs apparently related to waste, fraud,
            abuse or illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCRLF
            fund within 30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be
            charged on such delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a
            rate of ten (10) percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the
            Department may withhold such amounts including interest from subsequent
            payment requests.

I. WPCRLF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCRLF loan repayments are subject to the
   following requirements:

      (1)   Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient shall commence on the last
            construction contract completion date as established in the initial loan agreement
            for the project, or one year after the date in the initial loan agreement for issuance
            of the notice to proceed for the earliest construction contract, whichever occurs
            first.

      (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the date established in (1) above and the
            initiation of the repayment process will be added to the final allowable project
            costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the loan recipient.

      (3)   Repayments shall commence when determined by the Department, as established
            in the final loan agreement, and shall continue for the period established in the
            final loan agreement, in accordance with Rule 7.2 E.(1)(a) of these regulations.
            Repayments are to be made by counties on a semi-annual basis through
            homestead exemption annual tax loss reimbursement withholdings if adequate to
            provide such repayments, by municipalities on a monthly basis through state sales
            tax withholdings if adequate to provide such repayments and by all other loan



                                             393
              recipients through submission of monthly repayments, in accordance with state
              law.

       (4)    The repayment interest rate and the frequency of interest compounding will be as
              established in the IUP under which the project is funded.

J.     Administrative Fee.

       An administrative fee in the amount of five percent (5%) of the final loan principal
       amount will be collected from the loan repayment amounts to defray the costs of
       administering the WPCRLF program. Beginning with the initiation of the repayment
       process and until such time that the total administrative fee is collected, the interest
       portion of each repayment will not be charged, and, in lieu of the interest portion, an
       equal amount of the repayment will be collected as the administrative fee.

Source: Miss. Code §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                             394
                                      APPENDIX A

                       Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

                                       CONTENTS

A.    General

B.    Professional Services
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

C.    Construction
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

D.    Equipment, Materials, and Supplies
      (1)   Allowable
      (2)   Unallowable

E.    Change Orders

F.    Claims
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

G.    Mitigation
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

H.    Publicly Owned Onsite Systems
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

I.    Real Property and Existing Improvements
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

J.    Miscellaneous Costs
      (1)    Allowable
      (2)    Unallowable

K. Project Income

A.    General



                                           395
     Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant
     to applicable statute. Allowable costs are eligible costs that meet the following general
     criteria in addition to any specific identification as an allowable cost within Appendix A:

     (1)    Are necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration and
            construction of the project, be allocable to the project, and not be a general
            expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the loan recipient.

     (2)    Are authorized or not prohibited under state or local laws or regulations.

     (3)    Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in state laws or other governing
            limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

     (4)    Are consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to
            both state assisted and other activities of the loan recipient.

     (5)    Are accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted
            accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

     (6)    Are not allocable to, or included as, a cost of any other federally or state financed
            program in either the current, prior, or future period.

     (7)    Are determined allowable by the Department after review of necessary books,
            records and other documents related to the costs. Failure to cooperate with the
            Department regarding access to project records or refusal to provide such records
            when requested by the Department may result in costs being determined
            unallowable for WPCRLF participation.

     (8)    Are within the scope and budget period of the project as described in the loan
            agreement.

     (9)    Are determined without regard to any previous federal grant, WPALP, WPCELF
            or WPCRLF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or
            rehabilitated, except as described in Rule 7.2. F.(2)(d) and (e) of these regulations.

     (10)   Not withstanding this appendix, are eligible and allowable under the federal Clean
            Water Act and any implementing federal regulations.

     (11)   Are procured in accordance with Appendix C.

B.   Professional Services

     The term “professional services” refers to engineering, legal, administrative, and similar
     services.

     (1)    Allowable costs include:


                                             396
(a)   Costs that are normally included in the fringe benefits and indirect cost of
      the firm except those costs specifically excluded in these regulations.

(b)   Profit, not to exceed the amount normally charged by the firm for similar
      work.

(c)   Preparing the facilities plan.

(d)   Preparing the plans, specifications, and contract documents, including
      value engineering.

(e)   Preparing the loan application package.

(f)   Costs associated with the acquisition of real property, permanent and
      temporary construction easements and compliance with the requirements
      of the Mississippi Real Property Acquisition Policies Law.

(g)   The costs of services incurred during the advertisement, award and
      construction of a project.

(h)   The costs associated with acquiring minority and women’s business
      services.

(i)   The cost of developing an operation and maintenance manual.

(j)   Start-up services for onsite training of operating personnel in operation
      and control of specific treatment processes, laboratory procedures, and
      maintenance and records management.

(k)   Administrative services associated with the construction of the project and
      administering the WCPRLF loan.

(l)   The cost of services, other than engineering services during construction,
      such as railway or highway flagmen, or utility or highway inspectors,
      required during the construction of the project, are allowable provided
      that:

      i.     The entity responsible for the affected railway, highway, or utility
             requires such services for all parties conducting similar types of
             work, regardless of the source of construction funding for the
             project, or the services are required by law.

      ii.    The cost of such services has not been included in the construction
             contractor’s bid price.



                               397
           (m)      Engineering services or other services necessary to correct omissions in
                    the facilities plan, design drawings and specifications or other documents
                    to the extent that such costs would have been allowable for preparing
                    omission free documents.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)      Engineering services or other services necessary to correct defects in the
                    facilities plan, design drawings and specifications, or other documents.

           (b)      Public liaison services.

           (c)      Bad debt.

           (d)      Entertainment costs.

C.   Construction

     Eligible projects may include treatment works, nonpoint source management projects,
     and estuary conservation and management projects.

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)      The costs of contracts for allowable construction work on the project,
                    including prime contracts, subcontracts and the direct purchase of
                    equipment, materials and supplies by the loan recipient.

           (b)      The costs of sewer system rehabilitation (including rehabilitation of
                    allowable service lines) necessary to eliminate or prevent
                    infiltration/inflow, bypasses or overflows, or to provide proper operation
                    of the treatment works.

           (c)      The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat
                    infiltration/inflow that will remain in the system.

           (d)      Treatment works which serve industrial or commercial users when such
                    works are publicly owned.

           (e)      Reserve capacity within a design period of up to twenty years (forty years
                    for interceptors, including pump stations and force mains serving as
                    interceptors).

           (f)      Implementation of a nonpoint source management program established
                    under Section 319 of the Act and development and implementation of an
                    estuary conservation and management plan under Section 320 of the Act.



                                               398
             On projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood control,
             or any purposes other than control of pollutants or estuary conservation,
             only the portion of the project needed for control of pollutants or estuary
             conservation shall be allowable.

      (g)    Construction of treatment and transportation facilities for control of
             pollutant discharges from a separate or combined storm sewer system.

             On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
             control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants, only the portion
             of the project needed for control of pollutants is allowable.

      (h)    The cost associated with the preparation of the project site before, during
             and, to the extent provided in the loan agreement, after construction. These
             costs include:

             (i)     The cost of demolition of existing structures on the project site if
                     construction cannot be undertaken without such demolition.
                     Demolition of existing structures on the project site when not
                     required for constructing the project, will be considered to be an
                     allowable cost only if the existing structures constitute a real and
                     present hazard to safety, public health, or water quality which can
                     best be abated by the removal of the existing structures.

             (ii)    The cost of removal, relocation or replacement of utilities,
                     provided the loan recipient is legally obligated to pay for such by
                     law.

             (iii)   The cost of restoring streets and rights-of-way to their original
                     condition. The need for such restoration must result directly from
                     the construction and is generally limited to repaving the width of
                     trench.

      (i)    For wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to existing
             buildings, service lines between the public sewer and the point five (5)
             feet from the outside wall of existing residences and public buildings are
             allowable. Service lines between the public sewer and the property line of
             existing businesses are allowable.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    Construction and construction related costs which occur after the
             allowable completion date established by the Department.

      (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively or almost
             exclusively.


                                      399
            (c)    Bonus payments for completion of construction before a contractual
                   completion date unless required by state law.

D.   Equipment, Materials, and Supplies

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies
                   necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to
                   conduct tests required for plant operation.

            (b)    The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding
                   materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process
                   operation.

            (c)    The cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to
                   the operation of the works. The need will depend on the specific item, its
                   frequency of expected use, and the size and complexity of the treatment
                   facility. Larger treatment facilities will have a greater need for installed
                   shop equipment than smaller ones. Where the proposed items of
                   equipment are inappropriate to the size and/or complexity of the treatment
                   works, the Department may determine that the proposed equipment is
                   unallowable.

            (d)    The costs of necessary and reasonable safety equipment, provided the
                   equipment meets applicable federal, state, local or industry safety
                   requirements.

            (e)    The costs of necessary and reasonable collection system maintenance
                   equipment.

            (f)    The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall
                   wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for
                   the maintenance of equipment. These items include:

                   (i)     Portable stand-by generators.

                   (ii)    Large portable emergency pumps to provide “pump-around”
                           capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks.

                   (iii)   Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as
                           their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes
                           from the collector point (including individual or onsite systems) to
                           the treatment facility or disposal site.



                                            400
             (iv)   Tillage, planting, landspreading and harvesting equipment that is
                    documented as necessary and reasonable for land treatment process
                    and other vehicles demonstrated necessary to the facility and
                    approved in advance by the Department.

      (g)    Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
             as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
             they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

             (i)    not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
                    extended “lead-time” or

             (ii)   identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), but not included
                    in the inventory provided by the equipment supplier(s).

      (h)    Wastewater and drinking water flow metering devices used for wastewater
             billing purposes.

      (i)    The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
             dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and reasonable
             office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file cabinets,
             typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies, calculators, copiers,
             book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and building maintenance
             equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels, brooms, picks, hedge
             trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools such as screw drivers,
             pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

      (j)    Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
             are designed into the control system for the daily operations of the
             treatment works.

             Computers are also allowable if they are to be used for the operational
             control and analysis of the treatment works. Examples of such allowable
             uses include the scheduling of equipment maintenance and replacement,
             the operation of the loan recipient’s pretreatment program, including the
             scheduling of tests to verify industrial compliance with pretreatment
             requirements, and for accounting and billing services.

             The cost of computer software specifically designed for the operation and
             maintenance of the treatment works is also allowable for loan
             participation. This includes the cost of developing unique operation
             programs for the specific loan funded project.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    The costs of equipment or material procured in violation of Appendix C.


                                      401
           (b)    The cost of vehicles for the transportation of the loan recipient’s
                  employees, including buses, trucks, cars, motorcycles, golf carts, bicycles,
                  etc.

           (c)    Items of routine “programmed” maintenance such as ordinary piping, air
                  filters, couplings, hoses, belts, etc.

           (d)    Radios, televisions, VCRs, camcorders, and other items of a similar
                  nature.

           (e)    Large stocks of laboratory and other chemicals and supplies above a
                  reasonable inventory necessary to initiate plant operations.

E.   Change Orders

     (1)   Change order costs are allowable provided they are:

           (a)    Necessary and reasonable.

           (b)    Within the scope of the project.

           (c)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s mismanagement.

           (d)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the improper
                  actions of other.

           (e)    In conformance with the WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)   Provided the above requirements are met, the following costs are allowable
           change orders.

           (a)    Construction costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings
                  and specifications or other contract documents only to the extent that the
                  costs would have been incurred if the contract documents on which the
                  bids were based had been free of the defects and excluding the costs of
                  any rework, delay, acceleration or disruption caused by such defects.

                  If the defect is realized after substantial construction work has been
                  completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work
                  beyond that which would have been required by defect free drawings, the
                  cost would still be allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay is
                  unallowable.




                                           402
                      The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which
                      would have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the
                      actual cost of the change order.

               (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

F.    Claims

      (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
               requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule 7.3.F.(6)(d) of
               these regulations, include:

               (a)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                      recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                      protest appeals under Appendix I are allowable regardless of the outcome
                      of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                      violate or circumvent state law.

               (b)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                      claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                      provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                      illegal actions or mismanagement on the part of the loan recipient.

               (c)    Amendments or change orders in construction, engineering, legal, etc.,
                      contracts as a result of settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments
                      are allowable to the same extent that they would have been allowable had
                      there not been a claim.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

               (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

               (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.

               (c)    Claims resulting from mismanagement by the loan recipient.

               (d)    Claims resulting from the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the
                      improper action(s) of others.

               (e)    The cost of settlements, arbitration awards or court judgments over and
                      beyond the allowable costs had there not been a claim, as established in
                      these regulations.

G.    Mitigation

      (1)      Allowable costs include:


                                               403
           (a)    Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting
                  from construction of the project.

           (b)    The costs of reasonable site screening necessary to comply with facilities
                  plans and necessary to screen adjacent properties.

           (c)    The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities necessary to determine the
                  possibility of groundwater deterioration, depletion or modification
                  resulting from construction of the project.

                  The extent of the allowable costs for groundwater monitoring facilities is
                  decided on a case-by-case basis and depends on the size and complexity of
                  the project and the present and potential future use of the groundwater.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    The costs of solutions to aesthetic problems, including design details
                  which require expensive construction techniques and architectural features
                  and hardware, that are unreasonable or substantially higher in cost than
                  approvable alternatives and that neither enhance the function or
                  appearance of the treatment works nor reflect regional architectural
                  tradition.

           (b)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                  effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

H.   Publicly Owned Onsite Systems

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of major rehabilitation, upgrading, enlarging, and installation of
                  onsite systems.

                  Major rehabilitation may include the demolition and removal of an
                  existing privately or publicly owned onsite system in accordance with
                  Section C.(1)(h)(i) of this appendix.

           (b)    Collection or service lines to an offsite treatment unit which serves a
                  cluster of buildings.

           (c)    The cost of restoring individual system construction sites to their original
                  condition.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:



                                          404
           (a)    Those portions of treatment works which have surface discharges from
                  individual residences or clusters, unless each discharge has a valid NPDES
                  permit.

           (b)    Modification to physical structure of homes, commercial buildings, or any
                  other structures which are not a part of the public treatment works project.

           (c)    Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

I.   Real Property and Existing Improvements

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of land that will be an integral part of the treatment process, such
                  as for land treatment facilities, acquired in accordance with the Mississippi
                  Real Property Acquisition Policies Law in fee simple title or by easement.

                  Except as allowed under Section I.(2) below, such land must be acquired
                  at fair market value based on an appraisal or a condemnation proceeding,
                  unless the purchase price of a parcel is $10,000 or less. These costs
                  include:

                  (i)     The cost of a reasonable amount of land acquired for the
                          construction of land treatment works, considering the need for
                          buffer areas, berms, and dikes. Buffer areas may be designed as
                          part of the project to conform with Mississippi Environmental
                          Quality Permit Board regulations, to screen sites from public view,
                          to control public access, and to improve aesthetics.

                  (ii)    The cost of land acquired for land application of sludge,
                          composting or temporary storage of compost residues which result
                          from wastewater treatment.

                  (iii)   Where properties are only partially acquired for project purposes,
                          necessary compensation of property owners for the reduced value
                          of their remaining land.

           (b)    The cost of acquiring all or part of an existing publicly or privately owned
                  wastewater treatment works and necessary land for a consolidation
                  project, provided all of the following criteria are met:

                  (i)     The acquisition is for the purpose of providing new pollution
                          control benefits from the acquisition itself or through the
                          subsequent action committed to by the loan recipient, including but
                          not limited to upgrade, expansion, rehabilitation or removal from
                          service of the treatment works. The costs associated with these


                                           405
                           actions may be a part of the loan project as allowed by Section C
                           of this appendix.

                  (ii)     The primary purpose of the acquisition is not the reduction,
                           elimination, or redistribution of public or private debt; and

                  (iii)    The acquisition does not circumvent federal, state or local
                           requirements.

           (c)    The cost of complying with the requirements of the State’s Real Property
                  Acquisition Policies Law.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    For parcels costing over $10,000, any amount paid by the loan recipient
                  for allowable land in excess of fair market value, based on an appraisal or
                  any condemnation proceeding.

           (b)    For parcels costing over $10,000, an amount other than the determination
                  of fair market value may be found allowable through an administrative
                  settlement if the loan recipient provides sufficient written documentation
                  to the Department that it is reasonable, prudent and in the public interest,
                  such as when negotiated purchase is unsuccessful and condemnation
                  action may entail a long delay or excessive costs. Documentation may
                  include evidence of purchase negotiations, real property sales data,
                  estimated court settlement and legal costs based on previous
                  condemnation proceedings.

           (c)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                  effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

J.   Miscellaneous Costs

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    On force account projects, the costs of equipment, materials and supplies
                  necessary for the project.

           (b)    Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, the costs of meeting
                  specific legal requirements directly applicable to the project.

           (c)    Costs for necessary travel directly related to accomplishment of project
                  objectives, such as costs of loan recipient employees attending training
                  workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in
                  administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the
                  construction of the treatment works.


                                            406
(d)   Cost of royalties for the use of, or rights in, a patented process or product.

      Royalties associated with the procurement of the right to use, or the rights
      in, a patented product, apparatus, or process are allowable costs, provided
      that they are based on a published fee schedule or on reasonable fees
      charged to other users under similar conditions.

(e)   Buildings

      Allowable costs for buildings include those portions of the buildings
      which are directly related to the project, including buildings housing
      equipment and unit processes, laboratories; employee locker rooms;
      workshop areas, storage facilities for operational supplies, spare parts and
      equipment; necessary lavatory facilities, operator office space; etc. Those
      portions of an administration building which are not necessary for the
      daily operation and maintenance of the project are unallowable costs,
      including portions of the building used for public works functions (other
      than wastewater treatment), general accounting functions, conference
      rooms with associated audio-visual equipment, or other general uses not
      necessary for the operation of the project. Where larger facilities include
      conference rooms to be used exclusively for training of employees, such
      space is allowable if reasonable and if approved by the Department as part
      of the loan award.

      Where unallowable building space is included in an otherwise allowable
      administration building, the allowable cost is determined by using the ratio
      of allowable floor space divided by the total floor space in the building.
      The costs of buildings and portions of buildings which are unallowable are
      to be deducted from the allowable project construction costs for loan
      computation purposes. Costs associated with unallowable buildings and
      portions of buildings (e.g., landscaping, driveways, parking spaces,
      electrical service, and other utility costs) are also unallowable and must be
      deducted proportionately from the allowable construction costs.

(f)   Facilities For Income Generation from Processed Sludges and Crops

      Facilities which have the potential for generating project income to offset
      O&M costs are allowable if they are necessary to provide stabilized and
      processed sludges which are to be managed for income generation or
      crops which are grown for sale as an integral part of the wastewater land
      treatment or sludge utilization process.

      Facilities and equipment built for processing crops grown on land to
      which sludge or wastewater has been applied may be an allowable cost if
      the recipient has all financial interest in the crop and if those facilities are


                                407
             necessary and reasonable to prepare the crop for prompt delivery to its
             market.

             Facilities built for processing crops or sludge into marketable products
             such as compost or heat-dried pellets may be allowable if those facilities
             are necessary and reasonable to cost-effectively prepare the product for
             prompt delivery to its market. Facilities to store the marketable products to
             get more favorable prices, to transport the product for sale to a market, or
             to optimize marketing of the product, such as bagging operations, are also
             allowable.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    Ordinary operation expenses of the loan recipient including salaries and
             expenses of the loan recipient’s employees and elected and appointed
             officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

      (b)    Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the
             establishment of departments, agencies, commissions, regions, districts or
             other units of government.

      (c)    Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of
             indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

      (d)    Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

      (e)    Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal,
             state or local laws, regulations or procedures, and related legal expenses.

      (f)    Costs outside the scope or budget period of the approved project.

      (g)    Costs for which payment has been or will be received from another state
             or federal source.

      (h)    If a treatment works includes any reserve capacity which induces
             development on environmentally sensitive lands such as wetland, flood
             plains, etc. the cost of the entire treatment works will be unallowable.

      (i)    Operation and maintenance costs of the treatment works.

      (j)    Lease payments.

      (k)    Periodic payment of royalties for the right to operate under a patent is
             considered an operational cost and is unallowable for loan participation.




                                      408
K.   Project Income:

     Project income from the following sources shall have no effect on the determination of
     allowable and unallowable costs:

     (1)    Bid bond forfeitures.

     (2)    Liquidated damages.

     (3)    Interest income on WPCRLF payments to loan recipients.




                                          409
                                      APPENDIX B

                           State Environmental Review Process
                   [For Projects Defined Under Section 212 of the Act]

A.   Facilities Plan Description of Environmental Impacts

     Each project’s facilities plan must contain a comparative evaluation of the no-action
     alternative and the proposed alternative which accounts for the beneficial and adverse
     consequences to the existing and future environmental resources as follows and any
     corresponding mitigative measures necessary to protect these resources:

     (1)    Surface and groundwater resources.
     (2)    Archaeological/historical/cultural resources.
     (3)    Vegetative/wildlife resources.
     (4)    Wetlands and navigable waterways.
     (5)    Floodplains.
     (6)    Coastal zones.
     (7)    Wild and scenic rivers.
     (8)    Air Quality.

B.   Environmental Review

     The information, processes, and premises that influence an environmental determination
     are as follows. The Department will take one or more of the following actions pursuant to
     the review of the facilities plan description of environmental impacts and any comments
     generated by the Intergovernmental Review Agencies:

     (1)    Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment

            The Department will issue a Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) when,
            based upon review of the facilities plan and any intergovernmental review agency
            comments, it appears that a project will not have a significant adverse
            environmental impact.

     (2)    Environmental Impact Statement

            If the Department determines that the project does not qualify for a FONSI, an
            Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared in general conformance
            with EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 6, or as deemed appropriate by the Department.

     (3)    Amendments

            Amendments are occasionally needed to describe changes to proposed facilities
            that have already been described in a FONSI or EIS. The Amendment will



                                            410
            describe the changes and any expected new impacts on the environment due to the
            changes.

     (4)    Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action

            If five years will pass between the issuance of a FONSI, EIS or Amendment and
            the offer of WPCRLF funding, the environmental impact of the project will be
            reevaluated. If there have been no significant changes, the Department will issue a
            reaffirmation of the environmental action. If the original environmental action
            cannot be reaffirmed, the Department will issue a new environmental action, as
            appropriate.

     (5)    No Further Action

            The Department will issue a FONSI or EIS for all WPCRLF projects. If there are
            significant changes in the project after the issuance of the environmental
            document, those changes will be described in an Amendment. Some changes are
            minor, however, and the Department may determine that a separate Amendment
            need not be issued. Such minor changes may include, but are not limited to:

            (a)    Changes in the size of pump stations, force mains, interceptor sewers, or
                   collection sewers.

            (b)    Minor changes in the size of wastewater treatment unit processes.

            (c)    Minor rerouting of sewer lines when the new route will not adversely
                   affect cultural resources, habitats of endangered or threatened species,
                   environmentally important natural resource areas, or other environmental
                   resources. All affected property owners must be notified of the rerouting
                   by the loan recipient and must be provided an opportunity to comment on
                   the proposed rerouting prior to initiation of construction.

C.   Issuance of the Environmental Action

     Copies of all environmental actions will be provided to the appropriate intergovernmental
     review agencies listed in Rule 7.3.A.(2)(f). Copies of environmental actions will
     also be sent to any agency, group or individual requesting them. All
     environmental actions will also be published in an appropriate local newspaper.

     All environmental actions will provide for at least a thirty day period from the date of
     publication to receive comments from agencies groups, or individuals. All such
     comments will be evaluated by the Department before finalizing any environmental
     action.




                                            411
D.   Resolution of Adverse Comments

     Adverse comments received as a result of the environmental review process will be
     addressed in the following manner:

     (1)   The Department will first require the loan recipient to attempt to resolve the
           adverse comments.

     (2)   If the loan recipient is unable to resolve the adverse comments, the Department
           will render a decision concerning the adverse comments.

     (3)   Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
           comments desire to appeal the above decision, a request for an informal hearing
           must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
           decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an informal hearing will be held with
           staff members, as designated by the Executive Director, and the affected parties.
           The Executive Director will render a decision on the appeal as a result of the
           informal hearing.

     (4)   Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
           comments desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a request for a
           formal hearing by the Commission must be received by the Department within 30
           days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of such a request, the
           Commission will hold a formal hearing to consider the matter and will render a
           decision.

     (5)   Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
           in accordance with state law.




                                          412
                                         APPENDIX C

                   Procurement Requirements for WPCRLF Loan Recipients

In the procurement of all construction, equipment, materials, supplies, professional and non-
professional services and all other costs related to the WPCRLF project, all loan recipients must
comply with state purchasing laws as they relate to local governments.

The procurement and conduct of all professional engineering and land surveying services must
also be in accordance with the Code of Conduct and other guidance and interpretations
established by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.

The procurement and conduct of all construction contracts must also be in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Contractors and other guidance and
interpretations established by the Mississippi State Board of Contractors.

The loan recipient understands and agrees that it will include in all its contracts those contract
provisions required in Appendix L of these regulations.

All loan recipients must submit a procurement certification stating that the loan recipient has
reviewed the proposed costs in sufficient detail to determine that these costs are reasonable and
indicating that all of the above referenced requirements have been and will be met. If any of the
above procurement requirements are violated, the Department may determine that the related
costs are unallowable and may require repayment of all WPCRLF Loan funds paid for such
costs, in accordance with Rule 7.3.H.(6) of these regulations.




                                               413
                                      APPENDIX D
             Minority and Women’s Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) Requirements

These MBE/WBE requirements apply to all projects funded within a fiscal year in which federal
capitalization grants to the Department require such compliance. The Department will establish
“fair share” objectives for participation by minority and women’s business enterprises in
WPCRLF funded projects. The loan recipient must undertake the following steps in the
procurement of materials, equipment, supplies, and construction:

       (1)     Include qualified minority and women’s businesses on solicitation lists,

       (2)     Assure that minority and women’s businesses are solicited whenever they are
               potential sources,

       (3)     Divide total requirements, when economically feasible, into small tasks or
               quantities to permit maximum participation by minority and women’s businesses,

       (4)     Establish delivery schedules, when practical which will encourage participation
               by minority and women’s businesses,

       (5)     Use the services of the Minority Business Enterprises Division of the Mississippi
               Development Authority and the Contract Procurement Centers of the U.S.
               Department of Commerce, as appropriate, and

       (6)     Require the contractor to take the five (5) steps listed above, if the contractor
               awards subcontracts.

The loan recipient, engineer, and prime contractor(s) must also follow the guidance in the
Department document “Utilization of Minority and Women’s Business Enterprises.”

Minority and women’s business enterprises must be certified by the Mississippi Development
Authority or the Mississippi Department of Transportation.




                                               414
                                         APPENDIX E

                                   Debarment and Suspension

The Department is prohibited from entering into loan agreements with loan applicants that have
been debarred or suspended by any state or federal agency.

Loan recipients are prohibited from entering into contractual agreements with individuals,
businesses, organizations, or any other entities that have been debarred or suspended by any state
or federal agency.

Loan recipients are responsible for ensuring that prime contractors utilized on the project are not
debarred or suspended. Likewise, prime contractors are responsible for ensuring that
subcontractors utilized on the project are not debarred or suspended.

Anyone may contact the Department concerning the existence of a cause for debarment or
suspension. The Department may refer the matter to the State Attorney General or other
appropriate office for further investigation. If, after review or investigation, the Department
reasonably believes that a cause for debarment exists, the Department may propose debarment or
suspension and may initiate procedures similar to, but not necessarily identical to, federal
regulation 40 CFR Part 32: Debarment and Suspension Under EPA Assistance Programs.

Such above described debarment or suspension actions will not affect existing executed
contractual agreements, unless such agreements have been terminated or suspended under the
terms of the agreement by the loan recipient.




                                               415
                                        APPENDIX F

                 WPCRLF Loan Recipient/Department Disputes Procedures

Only WPCRLF loan recipients may submit a notice of dispute (disagreement) with a decision
made by the Department, with the exception of decisions regarding Appendix B, State
Environmental Review Process, of these regulations. The following procedures will be used to
resolve disputes between the loan recipient and the Department:

       (1)    Within any deadlines established by the Department, the loan recipient must
              submit a written notice of dispute with a Department decision, including a
              summary of the dispute and reasons the loan recipient believes the Department
              decision should be reversed.

       (2)    The Department staff will then render a written decision on the dispute and will
              include reasons for the decision.

       (3)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the Department staff decision, a request
              for an informal hearing must be received by the Department within 30 days after
              the date of the Department staff decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an
              informal hearing will be held with staff members, as designated by the Executive
              Director, and the affected parties. The Executive Director will render a decision
              on the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       (4)    Should the loan recipient desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a
              request for a formal hearing before the Commission must be received by the
              Department within 30 days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of such a
              request, the Commission will hold a formal hearing to consider the matter and
              will render a decision.

       (5)    Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              416
                                        APPENDIX G

                                    Waste, Fraud and Abuse

The loan recipient is responsible for preventing, detecting, and prosecuting waste, fraud, abuse,
and all other corrupt practices which occur in relation to the WPCRLF loan project.
If the loan recipient becomes aware of any allegation, evidence, or the appearance of corrupt
practices, the loan recipient must:

       (1)    Immediately inform the Department in writing.

       (2)    Promptly pursue available state and local legal, administrative, and contractual
              remedies.

The Department may disallow costs under the WPCRLF loan agreement when the costs are
determined to be related to waste, fraud, abuse or other corrupt practices. The Department may
also require repayment of WPCRLF loan funds paid for such costs in accordance with Rule
7.3.H.(6) of these regulations.




                                              417
                                       APPENDIX H

                    Loan Recipient Accounting and Auditing Requirements

All WPCRLF loan recipients must maintain project accounts in accordance with generally
accepted government accounting standards, as defined by the Guidelines of the Municipal
Accounting and Audit Manual, as prescribed by the State Auditor’s Office. Charges to the
project account must be properly supported, related to allowable construction costs, and
documented by appropriate records. These project accounts must be maintained as separate
accounts. Projects shall have audits conducted in accordance with the Federal Single Audit Act
Amendments of 1996, P.C. 104-156, and Section 21-35-31 of the Mississippi Code.




                                             418
                                        APPENDIX I

                                Procurement Protest Procedures

This Appendix sets forth the process for the resolution of procurement protests filed with the
loan recipient by an adversely affected party. The Loan Recipient’s protest procedures must
include these requirements:

       (1)    Prior to advertisement for bids, the loan recipient must establish its own
              procedures for prompt consideration of initial protests concerning solicitations or
              contract awards. A “protest” is a written complaint concerning the loan recipient’s
              solicitation or award of a contract. The protest must be filed with the loan
              recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan
              recipient's procurement action and must be filed in accordance with and within
              the time frame established by the loan recipient’s protest procedures.

       (2)    Any party which transmits any document concerning the protest during the course
              of a protest and protest resolution must simultaneously furnish all other affected
              parties with a copy of all documents in the transmittal.

       (3)    Upon receipt of a protest, the loan recipient must make a determination on the
              protest in accordance with the loan recipient’s protest procedures within thirty
              (30) calendar days after such protest or sooner, if so required by the loan
              recipient’s procurement protest procedures.

       (4)    The party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan recipient’s
              determination of the protest may appeal such a determination only through the
              appropriate court of competent jurisdiction, provided such appeal is initiated
              within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the determination.

       (5)    Any delay due to a protest or protest resolution will not relieve the loan recipient
              of the requirement to meet the project schedule established in the loan agreement,
              nor will such delays prevent the Department from pursuing the remedies for
              default established in the loan agreement.




                                              419
                                         APPENDIX J

             Applicable State and Federal Laws, Regulations, and Executive Orders

During the planning, design, construction, and operation of the project, the loan recipient shall
comply with all applicable laws and regulations and shall acquire all applicable permits as
described in the Departmental publication “Environmental Permit Directory,” or its successor.
The applicable related state and federal laws and regulations are listed below. The WPCRLF
regulations are not complete without these laws and regulations:

State Laws and Regulations

A.     Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications for Air and Water Pollution
       Control Permits.

B.     Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters.

C.     Mississippi Nonhazardous Waste Management Regulations.

D.     Mississippi Coastal Wetlands Protection Law, Section 49-27-1 through 49-27-69 of the
       Mississippi Code Annotated, (Supp. 1989) et seq.

E.     Mississippi Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and Control of Air
       Contaminants.

F.     Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
       (NPDES), Underground and Injection Control (UIC) and State Operating Permits.

G.     The Nongame and Endangered Species Conservation Act, Sections 49-5-101 through 45-
       5-119 of the Mississippi Code.

H.     The State Antiquities Law, Section 39-7-3, et seq. of the Mississippi Code of 1972.

I.     State of Mississippi Regulations for the Certification of Municipal and Domestic
       Wastewater Facility Operators.

J.     Mississippi Municipal and Domestic Water and Wastewater System Operators
       Certification Act of 1986, Sections 21-27-201 through 21-27-221 Mississippi Code of
       1972 Annotated.

K.     Mississippi State Purchasing Laws, Title 31, Mississippi Code 1972 Annotated.

L.     Mississippi State Engineering and Surveying Law, Sections 73-13-1 through 73-13-99
       Mississippi Code 1972 Annotated, and rules and regulation of procedure promulgated
       thereunder by Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and
       Land Surveyors.


                                               420
M.    Mississippi Real Property Acquisition Policies Law Sections 43-37-1 through 13.

N.    Mississippi Code Section 21-35-21, annual audits required.

Federal Laws and Executive Orders

A.    Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Pub. L. 94-135.

B.    Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. 88-352.

C.    Section 13 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. 92-
      500 (the Clean Water Act), which prohibits sex based discrimination.

D.    Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-112 (including Executive
      Orders 11914 and 11250).

E.    Environmental Justice, Executive Order 12898.

F.    Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, P.L. 104-156.




                                            421
                                         APPENDIX K

                            Loan Agreement Defaults and Remedies

Each of the following events is a default of a loan agreement:

(1)    Failure of the Loan Recipient to make any loan repayment when it is due and such failure
       shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days.

(2)    Failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement or in the performance or
       observance of any of the covenants or actions required by the Agreement.

(3)    Any warranty, representation or other statement by, or on behalf of, the Loan Recipient
       contained in the Agreement or in any information furnished in compliance with, or in
       reference to, the Agreement, which is false or misleading in any material respect.

(4)    An order or decree entered, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, appointing a
       receiver of any part of the Project or Revenues thereof; or if such order or decree, having
       been entered without the consent or acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, shall not be
       vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after the entry thereof.

(5)    Any proceeding instituted, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, for the purpose
       of effecting a compromise between the Loan Recipient and its creditors or for the purpose
       of adjusting the claims of such creditors, pursuant to any federal or state statute now or
       hereafter enacted, if the claims of such creditors are payable from Revenues of the
       Project.

(6)    Any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar proceeding instituted by, or against, the
       Loan Recipient under federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency laws now or hereafter in
       effect and, if instituted against the Loan Recipient, is not dismissed within sixty (60) days
       after filing.

(7)    Failure to give timely notice of default as required below when such failure shall continue
       for a period of thirty (30) days.

The Loan Recipient shall give the Department immediate written notice of an event of default.
Upon any event of default and subject to the rights of bondholders with prior liens, the
Department may enforce its rights by utilizing one or more of the following remedies:

(1)    By mandamus or other proceeding at law or in equity, cause to establish and collect fees
       and charges for use of the Project and to require the Loan Recipient to fulfill the
       Agreement.

(2)    By action or suit in equity, require the Loan Recipient to account for all moneys received
       from the Department or from the ownership of the Project and to account for the receipt,
       use, application or disposition of the Revenues.


                                               422
(3)    By action or suit in equity, enjoin any acts or things which may be unlawful or in
       violation of the rights of the Department.

(4)    By applying to a court of competent jurisdiction, cause to appoint a receiver to manage
       the Project, establish and collect fees and charges, and apply the Revenues to the
       reduction of the obligations under the Loan Agreement.

(5)    By certifying to the Tax Commissioner delinquency on loan repayments, the Department
       may intercept the delinquent amount, plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest on the
       amount due to the Department, from any unobligated funds due to the Loan Recipient
       under any revenue or tax sharing fund established by the State. Penalty interest shall
       accrue on any amount due and payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th ) day following the
       date upon which payment is due. The penalty interest shall be compounded monthly.

(6)    By notifying financial market credit rating agencies.

(7)    By administratively charging or suing for payment of amounts due, or becoming due,
       plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest which shall accrue on any amount due and
       payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th ) day after such notification by the Department,
       together with all costs of collection, including attorneys’ fees. The penalty interest shall
       be compounded monthly.

(8)    By accelerating the repayment schedule or increasing the interest rate.

(9)    By withholding payments to the Loan Recipient.

(10)   By terminating the Agreement, after providing thirty (30) days written notice of such
       intent to terminate the Agreement. Such termination will not affect the duty of the Loan
       Recipient to repay loan funds paid thus far.

No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon event of default shall impair
any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or acquiescence
therein, and every such right and power may be exercised as often as may be deemed expedient.
No waiver of any default under the Loan Agreement shall extend to or affect any subsequent
event of default, whether of the same or different provision of the Loan Agreement, or shall
impair consequent rights or remedies.




                                               423
                                          APPENDIX L

                         Loan Recipient/Contractor Claims and Disputes.

The Loan Recipient acknowledges and agrees that the Department is not a party, in any manner
whatsoever, to any contract between the WPCRLF loan recipient and the construction
contractor(s), engineer(s), attorney(s), equipment supplier(s), subcontractor(s) or any other
parties of any kind whatsoever (hereinafter collectively referred to as “vendor”). The Loan
Recipient also acknowledges and agrees that any benefit to vendors contracting with the Loan
Recipient arising from, or associated with this contract is strictly incidental and all such vendors
are not, and are not intended to be considered as third party beneficiaries under any agreement
between the Department and the Loan Recipient.

Upon execution of any contract between the loan recipient and its vendors in regard to a
WPCRLF funded project, the Department does not assume any authorities, duties,
responsibilities, or liabilities under such a contract.

The Department does not have any authority, duty, responsibility, or liability in contract claims
or dispute identification, negotiation, resolution, or any other actions regarding contract claims or
disputes under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and its vendors.

No actions taken by the Department, either directly or indirectly, in regard to the WPCRLF loan
funded project constitute or establish any determinations, authority, duty, responsibility, or
liability under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and any other party. The Loan Recipient
agrees and warrants that it shall include language, approved by the Department, in its contracts
with its vendors requiring the Loan Recipient and its vendors to acknowledge and agree that the
Department is not a party, in any way whatsoever, to the contract between the Loan Recipient
and its vendors. Such language shall require the Loan Recipient and vendors to acknowledge and
agree that the role of the Department is strictly that of a lender, that the vendors are not, and are
not intended to be, considered a third party beneficiary under any agreement between the
Department and the Loan Recipient. Additionally, such language shall also require the Loan
Recipient and its vendors to acknowledge and agree that any action taken by the Department in
its role as administrator for the revolving loan programs, or in its separate and distinct role as
regulator shall not in any way change or alter its position as that of lender.

The loan recipient and its vendors must resolve all claims and disputes by negotiation,
arbitration, litigation, or other means as provided in the contract documents and state law, prior
to submission of any related change order or contract amendment to the Department for review
and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan allowability determination.




                                                424
                                        APPENDIX M

                                           Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, will have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

(1)    Act – The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et. seq.,
       including any amendments.

(2)    Allowable Costs – Those project costs that are eligible, reasonable, necessary, allocable
       to the project, within the established project scope and budget, in conformance with the
       WPCRLF regulations, and determined allowable by the Department.

(3)    Authorized Representative – The signatory agent of the applicant authorized and directed
       by the applicant’s governing body to make application for assistance and to sign
       documents on behalf of the applicant, as required to undertake and complete the project.
       The signatory agent must be a member or an employee of the applicant’s governing body
       and may not be under a separate contract with the applicant at any time during the
       execution of the project.

(4)    Binding Commitment – A WPCRLF loan offer, as described in these regulations.

(5)    Budget Period – The time period beginning on the date established in the loan agreement
       and ending on the date 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation,
       during which allowable costs may be incurred.

(6)    Change Order – The documents, including supporting documentation, executed by the
       loan recipient and the construction contractor, upon recommendation of the engineer if
       required by the contract documents, authorizing a change, alteration, or variance in the
       plans, specifications, and contract documents, including, but not limited to, additions or
       deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract or a change in costs or time for
       work performed after execution of the contract.

(7)    Collector Sewer – The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment system,
       which are primarily installed to receive wastewater directly from facilities which convey
       wastewater from individual systems or from private property.

(8)    Commission – The Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality or its successors.

(9)    Consolidation Project – The acquisition of an existing entity or its treatment works by
       another or the merger of two entities.

(10)   Construction – Any one or more of the following: erection, building, acquisition,
       alteration, repair, improvement or extension of treatment works.



                                              425
(11)   Department – The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, and its designated
       representatives or successors.

(12)   Eligible Applicant – Any county, municipality, municipal public utility, authority,
       district, political subdivision or other governmental unit created under state law which
       has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater, industrial wastewater, wastewater
       sludges resulting from the treatment of such wastewater, stormwater, or nonpoint sources
       of pollution, has the authority under State law to receive WPCRLF loan assistance, has
       the ability to comply with these regulations and the requirements of the WPCRLF loan
       agreement, and which is not in arrears in repayments to the Water Pollution Control
       Revolving Fund, the Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund, the Water Pollution
       Abatement Loan Fund or any other loan.

(13)   Eligible Costs – Costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant to
       applicable statute.

(14)   Engineer – Unless otherwise indicated, the engineer, or engineering firm, registered by
       the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
       Surveyors, retained or employed by the loan recipient to provide professional engineering
       services during the planning, design and/or construction of the project.

(15)   Executive Director – The executive director of the Mississippi Department of
       Environmental Quality or his designee.

(16)   Financial Capability Summary – A financial analysis of a water pollution control system
       to determine whether the system has the capability to reliably meet the financial
       obligations on a long term basis.

(17)   Force Account – Involves the use of the loan recipient’s employees, equipment for
       construction, construction related activities and/or architectural and engineering services.

(18)   Infiltration – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such means as
       defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does not include, and is
       distinguished from, inflow.

(19)   Inflow – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service
       connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from sources such as,
       but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs
       and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary
       sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or
       drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(20)   Interceptor Sewer – A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:



                                                426
       (a)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed collector
              sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or another
              interceptor or pump station.

       (b)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the wastes to an
              adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance to a treatment plant.

       (c)    To transport wastewater, together with quantities of infiltration and inflow that are
              not admitted intentionally, from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (d)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated wastewater for
              transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to a treatment plant.

(21)   Interlocal Agreement – An agreement or contract between the loan applicant/recipient
       and other entities relating to use, enforcement or finances of the project or treatment
       works, which may be necessary to ensure completion and operation, and maintenance of
       a useful project.

(22)   Loan Agreement – A legal and binding agreement between the Department and the loan
       recipient through which the Department provides WPCRLF assistance for eligible and
       allowable costs and the recipient agrees to repay any administrative fees to the
       Department and the principal sum and interest to the WPCRLF over a period and at an
       interest rate established in the loan agreement.

(23)   Loan Applicant – An eligible applicant that applies or intends to apply for financial
       assistance from the WPCRLF program

(24)   Loan Recipient – An eligible applicant that executes a WPCRLF loan agreement.

(25)   Overflows and Bypasses – Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or bypasses
       any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment and discharge in
       accordance with the permit.

(26)   Project – The scope of work for which financial assistance is provided under the
       WPCRLF loan agreement.

(27)   Project Completion – The date of the final construction observation as performed by the
       Department for the purpose of a loan allowability determination.

(28)   Repayment – Administrative fees, principal and interest repayments on WPCRLF loans
       as established in the loan agreement.

(29)   Service Line – A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with quantities of
       infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from residences, public
       buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.


                                              427
(30)   Title Counsel or Legal Counsel – The attorney(s) of record, legally practicing, who
       provide(s) legal advice and certifications relating to the project for the loan
       applicant/recipient.

(31)   Treatment Works – Any devices and systems which are used in the storage, treatment,
       transportation, recycling, and reclamation of domestic, industrial, and/or commercial
       wastewater, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
       service lines, pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions,
       improvements, repair, additions, and alterations thereof; and any works, including the
       land that will be an integral part of, or used in connection with, the treatment process
       (including      land used for the storage of treated water in land treatment systems prior
       to land application) or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
       treatment; and any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing,
       treating, separating, or disposing of domestic, industrial, and/or commercial wastewater,
       stormwater runoff, wastewater in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer systems, and
       nonpoint source pollution.

(32)   User Charge Ordinance – A legally enforceable ordinance, regulation or corporate
       resolution enacted by the loan recipient which includes, at least by reference, the user
       charge system, and establishes user charge rates, to generate adequate revenues to cover
       all costs of the treatment works, as required by the user charge system.

(33)   User Charge System – The system by which the loan recipient charges users of the
       treatment works rates that produce adequate revenues required for operation,
       maintenance, replacement of equipment, retirement of existing debt, and repayment of
       the WPCRLF loan for the project.

(34)   Value Engineering – A specialized cost control technique which uses a systematic and
       creative e approach to identify and focus on high costs in a project in order to arrive at a
       cost saving without sacrificing the purpose, reliability or efficiency of the project.

(35)   WPALP – The Water Pollution Abatement Loan Program

(36)   WPCELF – The Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

(37)   WPCRLF – The Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund.




                                               428
 Part 6, Chapter 8: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality, Fiscal Year
 2020 Intended Use Plan (IUP) for the Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund
 Program


WATER POLLUTION CONTROL REVOLVING LOAN FUND (WPCRLF) PROGRAM


                        FY-2020 INTENDED USE PLAN

                 Adopted by the Commission on August 27, 2020




        MISSISSIPPI COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY

                      OFFICE OF POLLUTION CONTROL

                                P. O. BOX 2261

                      JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI 39225-2261




                                      429
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




               430
                MISSISSIPPI COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
             WATER POLLUTION CONTROL REVOLVING LOAN FUND PROGRAM
                             FY- 2020 INTENDED USE PLAN

                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART 1 – Standard Program Details/Requirements

Section                           Title                                     Page

I.               Goals of the Water Pollution Control Revolving

                 Loan Fund Program                                             4

II.              Information on Water Pollution Control Revolving

                 Loan Fund Program Activities to be Supported                  5


III.             Coordination Schedule for Jointly Funded Projects
7


IV.              FY- 2020 Priority List and Priority System
12


V.               FY- 2020 Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving

                 Loan Fund Project List with Detailed Project Information    46


VI.              FY- 2020 Assumed Available Funds
47

VII.             Proposed Payment (Federal Letter of Credit) Schedule        48


VIII.            Projected Schedule of Drawdowns against Federal

          Letter of Credit (Outlays)                                          48


IX.              Certifications
49

X.               Expected Environmental Outcomes and Performance Measures    50

                                                 431
PART 2 – Additional Federal Requirements for Fiscal Year 2016 and After

I.           Introduction                                                 51

II.          Supplemental Guidance                                        51

III.         Additional Requirements                                      51

Appendix A   FY-2020 Assumed Available Funds                              57

Appendix B   Projected Schedule of Outlays                                64




                                             432
PART 1 – Standard Program Details/Requirements

I.    Goals of the Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Loan Fund Program

      The Commission on Environmental Quality has established certain goals for the Water
      Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF) Program. Short term goals include:
      1) Periodically consulting with financial advisors to develop revised operating policies and
      procedures for the WPCRLF (Fund), with the goal of maximizing investment in project loans
      and reducing idle cash, while maintaining proper stability and management of all aspects of
      the Fund. 2) Implementing the additional federal requirements (as detailed in Part 2 of this
      IUP) which now apply to the WPCRLF Program due to the passage of the Water Resources
      Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), 2014, and due to the exhaustion of the banked
      equivalency/cross-cutter compliance [which was applied from implementation of the “post
      equivalency” WPCRLF Loan Program in FY-2001 until FY-2014], 3) Continuing to establish
      priorities and procedures which will meet the long term environmental improvement goals of
      the Commission, while keeping in focus the need to attract communities to the program and
      insure the maximum wise use of all available funds, 5) Continuing to implement the Green
      Project Reserve requirements during FY-20, 6) Continuing to implement the additional
      subsidy requirement and to make any additional subsidy funds available to projects in
      small/low income communities that otherwise might not be able to afford a project, and 7) To
      the extent reasonably practical, continue to structure this program to coordinate with other
      available funding programs within the State, particularly the CDBG, ARC, and RUS
      programs, in order to make available the opportunity for joint funding of projects should
      communities desire such an arrangement. The coordination procedures for WPCRLF
      projects funded jointly with the CDBG, ARC, and/or RUS program are found in Section III.

      Long term goals include: 1) maintaining a financially sound SRF in perpetuity; 2) meeting a
      substantial portion of the wastewater needs in the State within a reasonable period of time,
      while continuing to maintain a program that is attractive to the communities in the State; and
      3) funding fiscally sound projects in order of environmental importance as established by the
      Commission. Essential to achieving these goals is the determination of an interest rate and
      loan repayment term which will generate sufficient fund income to meet the State's needs
      within a reasonable period of time, but which is more attractive than private sector funding,
      so as to bring communities into the program and insure use of all available funds. Toward
      this end, the Commission intends to implement the program as further described in Section II.
      The long term priorities for funding are described in the Priority System in Section IV, which
      places first priority on projects that will bring existing wastewater facilities into compliance
      with their final discharge limitations, as required by the federal Clean Water Act. Other
      project categories will be funded in order of environmental importance as established within
      the Priority System, and as available funds allow. All projects must be demonstrated to be
      fiscally and environmentally sound through completion of a facilities plan, and its subsequent
      approval by the Department of Environmental Quality.

      The framework under which the WPCRLF loan program operates is established by two
      documents. The first document is the State Revolving Fund Loan Program Operating
      Agreement (Operating Agreement) between the Mississippi Department of Environmental
      Quality and the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV. This Operating Agreement
      was agreed to by both parties and approved on May 25, 1995. The Operating Agreement

                                               433
         establishes the provisions of the WPCRLF that are not expected to change from year to year.
         The second document is this annual Intended Use Plan (IUP) which includes a list of projects
         proposed for assistance, information on WPCRLF activities to be supported, criteria and
         methods for disbursing WPCRLF funds, and assurances. Copies of these documents are
         available upon request.

II.      Information on WPCRLF Activities to be supported by the FY- 2020 IUP

         The Commission has determined that the following will apply to the WPCRLF loan program,
         subject to compliance with the WPCRLF loan program regulations:

         a.      Eligible/allowable project costs will include costs as described and limited in
                 Appendix A of the Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program
                 Regulations.

      b. The types of assistance to be provided under the WPCRLF loan program will be loans to
      public entities which are authorized under State law to own, operate and maintain the funded
      facilities, to enter into a WPCRLF loan agreement, and to repay the WPCRLF loan; for the
      construction of eligible wastewater treatment and transportation facilities, non-point source and
      storm water pollution control programs, and estuary conservation and management programs.
      Wastewater, as defined by EPA, also includes sludge discharges into surface waters from
      publicly owned drinking water treatment facilities. The Department will continue to offer
      additional subsidy to eligible loan recipients during FY 2020. Detailed guidance on additional
      subsidy can be found in Section VI.D of this IUP. Subsidy funding authorized by WRRDA
      and/or made available through the FY 2015 and subsequent Appropriations Acts will be offered
      as 75% principal forgiveness to small/low income communities and will be subject to the
      affordability criteria outlined in Part 2, Section III.O. of this IUP.

         c.      New loans will be available: 1) at a 0.8% annual interest rate, compounded monthly,
                 at terms not to exceed 20 years after project completion, or 2) at a 1.8% annual
                 interest rate, compounded monthly, at terms of 30 years after project completion,
                 provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least 30 years.

                 These interest rates and terms, as well as the Small/Low-Income subsidy criteria
                 outlined in Section IV.D., will also be applied retro-actively to all projects funded in
                 FY-19 (October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019).

      d. WPCRLF loan participation can be funded at up to 100% of eligible project costs, less any
      funding made available from other agencies for these same eligible project costs.

      e. Where funding of a project has been segmented, loan repayment requirements will apply
      after the final construction inspection of the segment of the project that results in an operable
      project, as further described in the WPCRLF regulations. However, interest will accrue on each
      segment independent of other segments as required by the WPCRLF program regulations.

         f.      Project costs incurred prior to loan award will be WPCRLF loan allowable provided:



                                                   434
     -      The debt is for planning, design, or construction phase professional services
            related to, or for work performed under, an eligible construction contract for
            which the notice to proceed was issued on or after October 1, 2019, and the
            WPCRLF loan is awarded by September 30, 2020.

     -      The project is in compliance with all applicable WPCRLF program
            regulations and obtains Department approval of all applicable documents prior
            to award of the WPCRLF loan.

     -      The prospective loan recipient agrees that by incurring costs prior to loan
            award, it proceeds at its own risk and relieves the Commission, the
            Department, and the Department staff of all responsibility and liability should
            such costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should such
            funding not become available for any reason.

     -      The prospective loan recipient agrees that by incurring costs prior to loan
            award, no future commitment of funding a project is provided.

g.   Revenue to pay for WPCRLF program administration will be received by setting
     aside up to 4% of the cumulative federal capitalization grants to the State under Title
     VI of the Clean Water Act, and as may be further amended. In addition, an
     administration fee of 5% of the final loan principal will be collected from the interest
     portion of loan repayments on all FY-2020 loans.

h.   Project detail information for the FY-2020 WPCRLF projects is shown in Section V.

i.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award) in order to: transfer project scope and
     funds from one loan agreement to another loan agreement for the same loan recipient;
     to close out loans with completed project scopes and either delete the remaining
     project scopes that are delayed in violation of the loan schedules, or award a new loan
     for the delayed project scopes; and to award multiple loans for individual portions of
     a project shown on the Priority List.

j.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award) which was closed (final loan agreement
     executed) on or after July 1, 2015, in order to extend the loan term to a total of thirty
     (30) years after project completion, and to adjust the interest rate accordingly,
     provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least thirty (30) years.

k.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award or the date of final loan agreement
     execution) in order to extend the loan term to a total of thirty (30) years after project
     completion, provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least thirty
     (30) years, and provided the Department determines that, due to force majeure or
     other unforeseen circumstances beyond the loan recipient’s control, loan term
     extension is necessary to ensure complete and timely repayment of the loan. The
     Department may require that supporting documentation (including, but not limited


                                       435
              to, audit reports, financial capability summaries, user charge systems and ordinances,
              etc.) be submitted for review, prior to making such a determination.

       l.     The FY-2020 Priority List expires on September 30, 2020, except for the authority
              provided in Section II.i above which shall have no expiration date. Projects included
              on the FY-2020 Priority List that do not receive funding by this date will not be
              funded under the FY-2020 funding cycle and will be subject to the requirements of
              the FY-2021 or subsequent Intended Use Plans and Priority Lists.

       m.     State bonds which were provided by the State Legislature to provide state match for
              the federal CWSRF cap grants will be retired with the interest earnings on the fund
              deposits. The estimated amounts of interest earnings to be used for this purpose are
              shown in Appendix A – Assumed Available Funds.

III.   Coordination Schedules with Other Funding Sources on Jointly Funded Wastewater Projects.

       [Note: Due to unavoidable delays in preparation of the FY-2020 IUP, the following
       schedules reflect the typical “standard” schedule, rather than being tailored to fit the
       actual FY-2020 WPCRLF funding schedule.]

       The MDEQ will not award a WPCRLF loan to a jointly funded project until the other funding
       source(s) (i.e., CDBG, ARC, RUS, SPAP, etc.) has provided their award, or until the
       Department receives assurances from the other funding source(s) that their award will be
       made within a timeframe compatible with the WPCRLF loan agreement schedule. If the
       WPCRLF loan is awarded prior to the other funding source award(s), MDEQ may condition
       the WPCRLF award to delay payments until the other award(s) are made.


       A.     Coordination of Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program (WPCRLF)
              and Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) on Jointly Funded



FY- 2020 WPCRLF and CDBG Coordination Project Schedule*



                                 09/01/2019**        Loan applicants submit the complete

                             WPCRLF facilities plan, prepared in accordance with the WPCRLF

                             loan program regulations, to MDEQ. The plan must indicate

                             anticipated CDBG funding and must indicate if the loan applicant

                             intends to proceed with the project; 1) only if CDBG funds are

                             received, or 2) regardless of whether CDBG funds are received.


                                               436
        01/2020         MDEQ sends out Draft WPCRLF FY-2020

Intended Use Plan requesting public comments.




        01/2020         MDEQ notifies MDA of projects included on

Draft FY-2020 Priority List that anticipates receiving FY-2020

CDBG funds.




        02/2020         Commission on Environmental Quality adopts

FY-2020 WPCRLF Intended Use Plan accounting for anticipated

CDBG award amounts if identified in facilities plan.




     03/04/2020         CDBG program holds application workshops.




     04/01/2020**       Deadline for loan applicants to submit a

completed WPCRLF loan application to MDEQ for the total

WPCRLF eligible costs, less amount of anticipated CDBG award to

be applied to WPCRLF costs.


If the loan recipient is pursuing a CDBG grant to cover part of the
cost of construction, the loan recipient has the option to include the
anticipated CDBG grant amount in the detailed cost breakdown in the
application; or may request 100% WPCRLF funding with the
possibility of amending the loan application later if the loan recipient
is awarded a CDBG grant prior to receipt of bids for construction.


                  437
However, the WPCRLF loan application must be consistent with the
WPCRLF facilities plan for the project.

           05/2020      MDEQ provides notification to MDA that

complete WPCRLF loan applications have been received.




       03-09/2020        Loan applicants receive WPCRLF loan award

from MDEQ. The amount of the loan will be the total WPCRLF

eligible cost less the CDBG amount to be applied to WPCRLF

eligible work.




    05/12-16/2020 CDBG public facilities applications, along with

one copy of the                               WPCRLF loan

application with maps and appropriate attachments will be accepted

from May 12, 2020 until 4:00 pm on May 16, 2020.




       06/03/2020        MDA provides notification to MDEQ that

complete CDBG applications have been received.




       07/07/2020 Deadline for CDBG applicants to secure final

commitment and/or approval of matching funds. If by that time final

commitment and/or approval are not in place MDA will remove the

application from funding consideration.




                  438
                            08/15/2020      MDA provides conformation to MDEQ of

                    which projects fall within the funding range for CDBG grants for

                    construction contingent upon matching funds being in place. MDEQ

                    will not award a WPCRLF loan until this notification from MDA is

                    provided.




                    Upon Loan Award         MDEQ copies MDA on the award letter.




                    Upon Grant Award        MDA provides notification to MDEQ that

                    CDBG awards have been made.




     *Subject to change due to the timing of federal appropriations or program changes.

     **Included in WPCRLF FY-2020 Priority System deadlines. Other deadlines not shown
     above also are contained in the WPCRLF FY-2020 Priority System.

B.   Coordination of Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program (WPCRLF)

     and Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) Grant Program on Jointly Funded

     Wastewater Projects


                        FY-2020 WPCRLF and ARC Coordination Schedule*

     Date TBD       Mississippi Appalachian Regional Office (MARO) notifies
                     potential applicants & local Planning & Development Districts of the
                    deadline for submitting complete applications for ARC grants.


     Date TBD       All FY-2020 ARC project applications are due at ARO in Washington
                    by 5:00 p.m. Any proposals received after this date will only be
                    considered for funding in FY 2021.



                                      439
                    09/01/2019** Loan applicants submit a complete WPCRLF

            facilities plan to MDEQ. The plan must indicate anticipated ARC

            funding and must indicate if the loan applicant intends to proceed

            with the project; 1) only if ARC funds are received, or 2) regardless

            of whether ARC funds are received.


Date TBD    MARO notifies MS Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ)
            of grant applicants who submitted pre-applications for ARC grants
            which indicate anticipated FY-2020 SRF funding.


Dates TBD   MARO completes review of FY-2020 projects and briefs Governor
            about projects identified to be submitted to ARC – Washington for
            funding purposes.

                    Dates TBD        MARO notifies local Planning &

            Development Districts of projects that have been selected for the P1

            (fundable priority list). MARO will copy MDEQ on these

            notification letters if grantee has indicated that it is pursuing

            WPCRLF loan funds for this project.




                                     MDEQ will not award a WPCRLF loan until

            this notification from MARO is provided.




                    Date TBD         Deadline for all FY-2020 Priority 1

            documentation and forms to be submitted to MARO.




                               440
                     01/2020         MDEQ sends out Draft WPCRLF FY-2020

              Intended Use Plan requesting public comments.




                     Date TBD        MARO sends project applications to ARC

              Washington to start final funding approval process.




                     02/2020         Commission on Environmental Quality adopts

              FY-2020 WPCRLF Intended Use Plan accounting for anticipated

              ARC award amounts if identified in facilities plan.




                     03/2020         MDEQ notifies MARO of projects included

              on Final FY-2020 Priority List that anticipate receiving FY-2020

              ARC funds.




                     Dates TBD       ARC-Washington starts the final funding

              approval process and awards ARC grants during the spring or summer

              of 2020.




04/01/2020** Deadline for loan applicants to submit a completed WPCRLF loan
             application to MDEQ for the total WPCRLF eligible costs, less the
             amount of anticipated ARC award to be applied to WPCRLF costs.

05/2020       MDEQ provides notification to MARO that complete WPCRLF loan
              applications have been received.



                               441
                     03/2020 - 09/2020        Loan applicants receive WPCRLF loan

                     awards from MDEQ. The

                                              amount of the loan will be the total WPCRLF

                     eligible cost less the

                                              ARC award amount to be applied to WPCRLF

                     eligible costs.




Upon Grant Award     MARO provides notification to MDEQ that ARC awards have been
                     made.

Upon Loan Award      MDEQ copies MARO on the award letter.

      * Subject to change due to the timing of federal appropriations or program changes.

      ** Included in WPCRLF FY-2020 Priority System deadlines. Other deadlines not
      shown above also are contained in the WPCRLF FY-2020 Priority System.

C.    Coordination of Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program (WPCRLF)
      and Rural Utilities Service (RUS) Grant and Loan Program on Jointly Funded
      Wastewater Projects

      General Guidance regarding WPCRLF/RUS coordination: The RUS is an agency of
      the United States Department of Agriculture which provides loans and grants for
      water and wastewater projects. Eligible applicants must be public bodies, nonprofit
      organizations, or Indian tribes that serve communities with populations under 10,000.
      RUS funds may be used in conjunction with other Federal, State, or local funds.

      Applications for RUS funds will be accepted at any time during the year, and involve
      an environmental review that includes public notifications and comment periods.

      RUS projects are funded at any time during the year as long as funds are available.
      RUS funds are allocated by Congress in October of each year, and are usually spent
      as complete applications are received. Therefore, it is generally to the applicant’s
      advantage to file applications earlier in the fiscal year.

                          FY-2020 WPCRLF and RUS Coordination Project Schedule*




                                        442
         09/01/2019** Loan applicants submit complete WPCRLF

facilities plan to MDEQ. The plan must indicate anticipated RUS

funding and must indicate if the loan applicant intends to proceed

with the project; 1) only if RUS funds are received, or 2) regardless of

whether RUS funds are received.




         01/2020         MDEQ sends out Draft WPCRLF FY-2020

Intended Use Plan requesting public comments.




         02/2020    Commission on Environmental Quality adopts

FY-2020 WPCRLF Intended Use Plan accounting for anticipated

RUS award amounts if identified in facilities plan.




         03/2020         MDEQ notifies RUS of projects included on

final FY-2020 Priority List that anticipates receiving FY-2020 RUS

funds.




     04/01/2020** Deadline for loan applicants to submit complete

WPCRLF loan applications to MDEQ for the total WPCRLF eligible

costs, less amount of anticipated RUS award to be applied to

WPCRLF costs.




                   443
                                            If the loan recipient is pursuing a RUS

                    grant/loan to cover part of the cost of construction, the loan recipient

                    has the option to include the anticipated RUS grant /loan amount in

                    the detailed cost breakdown in the application, or may request 100%

                    WPCRLF funding with the possibility of amending the loan

                    application later if the loan recipient is awarded a RUS grant/loan

                    prior to receipt of bids for construction. However, the WPCRLF loan

                    application must be consistent with the WPCRLF facilities plan for

                    the project.




                            05/2020      MDEQ provides notification to RUS that

                    complete WPCRLF loan applications have been received.




03/2020 - 09/2020   Loan applicants receive WPCRLF loan awards from MDEQ. The

                    amount of the loan will be the total WPCRLF eligible cost less the

                    RUS award amount to be applied to WPCRLF eligible costs.




                    Upon Loan Award         MDEQ copies RUS on the award letter.




                    Upon RUS Award          RUS provides notification that RUS awards

                    have been made.




                                      444
* Subject to change due to the timing of federal appropriations or program changes.

** Included in WPCRLF Priority System deadlines. Other deadlines not shown above
also are contained in the WPCRLF FY-2020 Priority System.




                                 445
FY- 2020 MISSISSIPPI STATE REVOLVING FUND LOAN PROGRAM

IV.A                                                            “REGULAR” PRIORITY LIST


                                             Category 4: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting Final Limits)

                                                                                                                                        Loan
                                                                                                                            2019                    Statewide
                                                                                                                                       Amount
Project/                                                   Project                               Priority                  Median                   Cum. Loan
                                                                                                             Population               Requested
                                                          Description                            Points                   Household                     $
      Permit Number                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                                           Income                   (Millions)
                                                                                                                                      (Millions)
DCRUA/MS0028479               Metro Wastewater Treatment Facility Upgrades                          *         185,023      $67,154       $5.5M       $5.5M
WJCUD/                        Phase III-Sewer system rehab and sewer line replacement               *         145,073      $49,773       $2.5M       $8.0M
Town of Pelahatchie/          Upgrade existing WWTF and collection system
                                                                                                    *          1,507       $53,687       $3.0M       $11.0M
MS0021008

* Calculations of Priority Points are incomplete at the present time.


                                                       Category 6: New Collection – Existing Buildings

                                                          Project                                           Unsewered     Loan Amount        Statewide
 Project/                                                                                      Priority
                                                                                                            Residences     Requested $      Cum. Loan $
                           Description                                                         Points
    Permit Number                                                                                            Served         (Millions)       (Millions)
 DCRUA/MS0053155           Lower Camp Creek Canal Interceptor                                   39.12          707           $12.8M           $23.8M
                           Construction of new gravity sewer collection system to
 WJCUD/                                                                                         1.32           100           $7.8M               $31.6M
                           consolidate and abandon existing failing lines




                                                                            446
FY- 2020 MISSISSIPPI STATE REVOLVING FUND LOAN PROGRAM

                                                             “REGULAR” PRIORITY LIST

                                             Category 7: Wastewater Overflow/Bypass Elimination Projects

                                                                                                                                      Statewide
                                                                                                         2019
  Project/                                          Project                         Stream                            Loan Amount     Cum. Loan
                                                                                                     Median House-
                                                   Description                      Class.                             Requested          $
             Permit Number                                                                            Hold Income
                                                                                                                                      (Millions)
  (No Projects Currently Ranked in
  this Category)




                                             Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)

                                                                                                        2019                        Statewide
  Project/                                         Project                         Stream              Median        Loan Amount    Cum. Loan
                                                  Description                      Class.              House-         Requested         $
             Permit Number                                                                           Hold Income                    (Millions)
                                       Forcemain replacement and pump
  Harrison County Utility Authority/                                             Shellfish
                                       station rehabilitation (SP-13)                                  $47,980         $4.0M         $35.6M
  MS0043141                                                                Harvesting/Recreation
  Harrison County Utility Authority/   Pump stations rehabilitation and          Shellfish
                                                                                                       $47,980         $4.0M         $39.6M
  MS0022373                            forcemain construction (SP-12)      Harvesting/Recreation
  City of Cleveland/MS0020567          WWTF Rehabilitation                         F&W                 $33,526         $10.7M        $50.3M
                                       Repair and/or replacement of
  City of Greenville/                  existing collection system                   F&W                $29,421         $14.6M        $64.9M
                                       facilities
  DeSoto Co. Regional UA/              Johnson Creek Force Main to
                                                                                    F&W                $67,154         $5.3M         $70.2M
  MS0061271                            Mississippi River


                                                                          447
    DeSoto Co. Regional UA/           Johnson Creek Interceptor
                                                                                 F&W                 $67,154               $5.7M            $75.9M
    MS0061271                         Extension
    DeSoto Co. Regional UA/           Johnson Creek WWTF Upgrade
                                                                                 F&W                 $67,154               $10.0M           $85.9M
    MS0061271                         2MGD to 4MGD



 FY- 2020 MISSISSIPPI STATE REVOLVING FUND LOAN PROGRAM

                                                        “REGULAR” PRIORITY LIST

                                               Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects

                                                                                               Eligible     Estimated
                                                                      2019        Loan
                                                                                              Small/Low       Green         Green Project    Statewide
Project/                                              Requested      Median      Amount
                 Project        Stream                                                         Income        Project           Reserve       Cum. Loan
                                         Population    Funding       House-     Requested
    Permit      Description     Class.                                                         Subsidy       Reserve          Category/          $
                                                         FY           Hold          $                      Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                     Amount $                      Documentation    (Millions)
                                                                     Income     (Millions)                  (Millions)
                                                                                              (Millions)
DeSoto Co.     Mississippi
Regional UA/   River Diffuser   F&W       185,023        2020       $67,154       $0.4M          N/A           N/A                 N/A         $86.3M
MS0061271      Structure



                                           IV.B     “SMALL/LOW INCOME” PRIORITY LIST



                                          Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)

                                                                         2019
 Project/                                                                                Loan        Eligible Small/Low              Statewide
                        Project             Stream                      Median
                                                       Population                       Amount        Income Subsidy                Cum. Loan $
    Permit             Description          Class.                      House-
                                                                                       Requested           Amount                    (Millions)
    Number                                                            Hold Income




                                                                       448
 Town of              Renovate existing WWTF,
                      Improve and rehab
 Tutwiler/                                             F&W           3,488         $29,681         $6.7M                                     $93.0M
                      existing wastewater
 MS0025054
                      transportation system



                                                    IV.C “GREEN PROJECT RESERVE” PRIORITY LIST

                                      (No Green Project Reserve–Eligible Projects Met the Deadline to be Ranked This FY)


                                                       FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST

                                              Category 4: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting Final Limits)


                                                                                                                        Estimated
                                                                                                            Eligible
                                                                                                Loan                      Green
                                                                                    2019                   Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
                                                          Possible                             Amount                    Project
Project/                     Project        Priority                               Median                   Income                       Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                                          Funding    Population               Requested                  Reserve
                            Description     Points                                Household                 Subsidy                     Category/         $
   Permit Number                                            FY                                    $                     Eligibility
                                                                                   Income                  Amount $                   Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                                              (Millions)                    $
                                                                                                           (Millions)
                                                                                                                        (Millions)
                          Pump Station
City of Magnolia/         & Force Main
                          to Eliminate          *          2021        2,406       $25,842    $ 2.5 M       $1.0 M        N/A             N/A          $ 2.5M
MS0061077
                          POTW
                          Sewer
City of Starkville/
                          System                *          2021        25,491      $31,362     $3.0 M        N/A          N/A             N/A          $ 5.5M
MS003145
                          Rehab
                          Phase 1 -
                          New WWTP
                          and New
Town of Coldwater/        Pump                  *          2021        1,802       $30,709    $ 3.1 M       $2.3 M        N/A             N/A          $ 8.6M
MS0024678                 Station/Force
                          Main from
                          North Lagoon

                                                                                  449
Town of Coldwater/      Phase 2 -
                        Sewer Rehab            *           2021       1,802         $30,709        $ 1.6 M       $1.2 M        N/A             N/A          $ 10.2M
MS0026934
Town of Coldwater/      Phase 3 -
                        Sewer Rehab            *           2021       1,802         $30,709        $ 1.3 M       $1.0 M        N/A             N/A          $ 11.5M
MS0026934


 * Calculations of Priority Points are incomplete at the present time.




                                              FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                         Category 4: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting Final Limits) - Continued
                                                                                                                              Estimated
                                                                                                                  Eligible
                                                                                                      Loan                      Green
                                                           Possible
                                                                                          2019       Amount
                                                                                                                 Small/Low
                                                                                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                            Green Project   Statewide
Project/                    Project             Priority                              Median                      Income                       Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                                           Funding    Population                    Requested                  Reserve
                           Description          Points                               Household                    Subsidy                     Category/         $
  Permit Number                                              FY                                         $                     Eligibility
                                                                                      Income                     Amount $                   Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                                                    (Millions)                    $
                                                                                                                 (Millions)
                                                                                                                              (Millions)
                      Upgrades at WWTP
City of Hazlehurst/
                      and pump stations;
MS0023922
                      new collection in            *        2021          3,929          $30,111    $ 3.1 M        N/A          N/A             N/A          $14.6M
MS0023884
                      areas adjacent to the
                      city limits
                      Wastewater
Town of Utica/        Treatment Plant
                                                   *        2021          779            $46,877    $ 1.7 M        N/A          N/A             N/A          $16.3M
MS0020613             upgrade to meet
                      Phase II Limits
                      Upgrade Lagoon to
Town of Bolton/
                      Meet Phase II                *        2021          567            $43,528    $ 0.5 M        N/A          N/A             N/A          $16.8M
MS0021032
                      Limits
                      Savanna WWTP
City of Jackson/
                      Improvements Phase           *        2021         167,660         $39,057    $325.0 M       N/A          N/A             N/A         $341.8M
MS0024295
                      2 (Long Term)


                                                                                   450
City of Ripley/       Sewer System
                                                  *        2021           5,335         $36,215   $ 2.1 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $343.9M
MS0020958             Rehabilitation
                      Wastewater
City of Ripley/
                      Treatment Plant             *        2021           5,335         $36,215   $ 3.1 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $347.0M
MS0020958
                      Improvements
City of Oxford/       Sewer System
                                                  *        2021          23,067         $37,268   $14.0 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $361.0M
MS0029017             Rehabilitation
City of Guntown/      Sewer System
                                                  *        2021           2,268         $66,682   $ 1.0 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $362.0M
MS0023655             Rehabilitation
City of Raymond/      E. Lagoon Offline/
                                                  *        2021           1,986         $72,936    $1.6 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $363.6M
MS0025052             to Clinton S-side

* Calculations of Priority Points are incomplete at the present time.




                                             FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued
                                         Category 4: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting Final Limits) – Continued
                                                                                                                            Estimated
                                                                                                                Eligible
                                                                                                    Loan                      Green
                                                                                         2019                  Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
                                                          Possible                                 Amount                    Project
Project/                    Project            Priority                               Median                    Income                       Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                                          Funding       Population                Requested                  Reserve
                           Description         Points                                Household                  Subsidy                     Category/         $
  Permit Number                                             FY                                        $                     Eligibility
                                                                                      Income                   Amount $                   Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                                                  (Millions)                    $
                                                                                                               (Millions)
                                                                                                                            (Millions)
Town of
Caledonia/            WWTP Upgrade                *        2021           1,122         $72,292   $ 1.4 M        N/A          N/A             N/A         $365.0M
MS0024805
Harrison County
                      Decommission of
Utility
                      Eagle Point Lagoon          *        2021         206,011         $47,980    $1.0M         N/A          N/A             N/A         $366.0M
Authority/MS0034
                      (SLT-05)
436




                                                                                  451
   City of Ocean
   Springs/              Wastewater System
   MS0045446             Improvements                 *        2021         18,214         $62,293    $5.1M         N/A         N/A             N/A        $371.1M

   Lake Lorman           WWTP Upgrades to
   Utility District/     meet Phase II                *        2021          N/A            N/A       $ 1.0 M       N/A         N/A             N/A        $372.1M
   MS0043401             Limits
   Hattiesburg Laurel
                         Installation of new
   Regional Airport
                         50,000 GPD                   *        2021          N/A            N/A       $0.5 M        N/A         N/A             N/A        $372.6M
   Authority/MS0031
                         packaged WWTP
   542
                         Rehab of WWTF and
   City of Fayette/      repairs to existing          *        2021         1,587          $21,861    $1.6M       $1.2 M        N/A             N/A        $374.2M
                         sewer

    * Calculations of Priority Points are incomplete at the present time.




                                                FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                                            Category 6: New Collection – Existing Buildings

                                                                                                                   Eligible     Estimated
                                                                                                       Loan
                                                                                        2019                      Small/Low       Green        Green Project   Statewide
 Project/                                Unsewered        Requested                                   Amount
                Project       Priority                                                 Median                      Income        Project          Reserve        Cum.
 Permit                                  Residences        Funding    Population                     Requested                   Reserve
               Description     Points                                                 Household                    Subsidy                       Category/      Loan $
 Number                                   Served             FY                                          $                     Eligibility $
                                                                                       Income                     Amount $                     Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                                                     (Millions)                 (Millions)
                                                                                                                  (Millions)
Harrison       Sewer
County         collection
Utility        from one
                               300.5           625          2021       206,011         $47,980        $1.3M          N/A          N/A              N/A         $375.5M
Authority/     unsewered
MS0049298      area (SP-
               03)



                                                                                     452
Harrison     New
County       Collection
Utility      from one       99.1         359            2021       206,011       $47,980      $1.3M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $376.8M
Authority/   area (SP-
MS0027537    05)
             Sewer
Harrison
             Collection
County
             from one
Utility                     33.1         115            2021       206,011       $47,980      $0.4M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $377.2M
             unsewered
Authority/
             area (SP-
MS0036854
             07)
             Sewer
Harrison
             Collection
County
             from two
Utility                     23.5         84             2021       206,011       $47,980      $0.3M         N/A          N/A              N/A          377.5M
             unsewered
Authority/
             areas (SP-
MS0040169
             09)
             New
City of
             Collection      7.1         125            2021        4,423        $42,599      $2.2M         N/A          N/A              N/A          379.7M
Wiggins
             (Phase 2)

                                          FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                                   Category 6: New Collection – Existing Buildings- Continued

                                                                                                          Eligible     Estimated
                                                                                              Loan
                                                                                  2019                   Small/Low       Green        Green Project   Statewide
  Project/                            Unsewered      Requested                               Amount
               Project     Priority                                              Median                   Income        Project          Reserve        Cum.
Permit                                Residences      Funding     Population                Requested                   Reserve         Category/
             Description    Points                                              Household                 Subsidy                                      Loan $
Number                                 Served           FY                                      $                     Eligibility $   Documentation
                                                                                 Income                  Amount $                                     (Millions)
                                                                                            (Millions)                 (Millions)
                                                                                                         (Millions)
City of
             New
Hernando/                    5.3         105            2021        16,516       $79,215      $2.1 M        N/A          N/A              N/A         $381.8M
             Collection
MS0062227




                                                                               453
Harrison     New
County       collection
Utility      from one        4.5         30             2021       206,011       $47,980      $0.2M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $382.0M
Authority/   area
MS0057011    (SP-02)
City of
             New
Baldwyn/                     3.0         112            2021        3,104        $26,989      $ 4.2 M       N/A          N/A              N/A         $386.2M
             Collection
MS0020087
Harrison
             New
County
             collection
Utility
             from two        1.8         30             2021       206,011       $47,980      $0.5M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $386.7M
Authority/
             areas
MS0042200
             (SP-04)
Harrison     New
County       collection
Utility      from three      1.1         30             2021       206,011       $47,980      $0.8M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $387.5M
Authority/   areas (SP-
MS0051845    01)
Town of      Phase 4 –
Coldwater/   Sewer           0.2         12             2021        1,802        $30,709      $ 0.7 M      $0.5 M        N/A              N/A         $388.2M
MS0024678    Extension




                                          FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                                   Category 6: New Collection – Existing Buildings- Continued

                                                                                                          Eligible     Estimated
                                                                                              Loan
                                                                                  2019                   Small/Low       Green        Green Project   Statewide
 Project/                             Unsewered      Requested                               Amount
              Project      Priority                                              Median                   Income        Project          Reserve        Cum.
 Permit                               Residences      Funding     Population                Requested                   Reserve
             Description    Points                                              Household                 Subsidy                       Category/      Loan $
 Number                                Served           FY                                      $                     Eligibility $
                                                                                 Income                  Amount $                     Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                                            (Millions)                 (Millions)
                                                                                                         (Millions)
                                                                               454
              New
Harrison
              collection
County
              from two
Utility                         0.1          6           2021        206,011         $47,980   $0.3M       N/A   N/A   N/A   $388.5M
              areas
Authority/
              (SP-11)
MS0043141
              Sewer
              collection
Harrison      from
County        Harrison
                               .001          1           2021        206,011         $47,980   $1.0M       N/A   N/A   N/A   $389.5M
Utility       Central
Authority/    High
              School
              (SP-05)
West
              Installation
Harrison
              of new
Water and                        *          120          2021        206,011         $47,980   $1.7M       N/A   N/A   N/A   $391.2M
              sewer
Sewer
              collections
District/
               Nolehoe
DCRUA/
               Creek             *          20,740        2021        185,023185     $67,154   $8.0M       N/A   N/A   N/A   $399.2M
MS0029513
               Interceptor
    * Calculations of Priority Points are incomplete at the present time.




                                              FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                                  Category 7: Wastewater Overflow/Bypass Elimination Projects




                                                                                   455
                                                                                                  Eligible    Estimated
                                                                          2019        Loan                      Green
                                                                                                 Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                                    Requested    Median      Amount                    Project
                   Project            Stream                                                      Income                       Reserve        Cum.
                                               Population    Funding     House-     Requested                  Reserve
   Permit         Description         Class.                                                      Subsidy     Eligibility     Category/      Loan $
                                                               FY         Hold          $
  Number                                                                                         Amount $         $         Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                         Income     (Millions)
                                                                                                 (Millions)   (Millions)
City of
              Sarullo Sanitary
Greenville/                           F&W        33,330        2021      $29,421     $ 0.6 M        N/A         N/A             N/A         $399.8M
              Sewer Improvements
MS0020194
City of       North Theobald
Greenville/   Sanitary Sewer          F&W        33,330        2021      $29,421     $ 0.3 M        N/A         N/A             N/A         $400.1M
MS0020194     Improvements
City of
Vicksburg/    Sanitary Sewer
                                      F&W        23,402        2021      $31,227     $25.4M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $425.5M
MS0022381     Rehabilitation

              Repair/replacement
              of collapsed sewer
Town of
              line to eliminate
Mt Olive/                             F&W         882          2021      $31,239     $ 0.5 M      $ 0.35 M      N/A             N/A         $426.0M
              bypasses/ overflows,
MS0020699
              and rehabilitation to
              eliminate I & I
Jackson
County        Old Fort Bayou
Utility       Road Regional Pump      F&W       145,073        2021      $49,773     $3.6M          N/A         N/A             N/A         $429.6M
Authority/    Station
MS0045446
              Repair/replace/rehab
City of       sewer line to
                                      F&W       167,660        2021      $39,057     $29.2M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $458.8M
Jackson/      eliminate bypasses/
              overflows/I&I




                                       FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                            Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)
                                                                         456
                                                                                                     Eligible    Estimated
                                                                  2019                                             Green
                                                                                                    Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
   Project/                                                      Median    Requested      Loan                    Project
                       Project             Stream                                                    Income                       Reserve        Cum.
   Permit                                           Population   House-     Funding      Amount                   Reserve
                      Description          Class.                                                    Subsidy     Eligibility     Category/      Loan $
   Number                                                         Hold        FY        Requested
                                                                                                    Amount $         $         Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                 Income
                                                                                                    (Millions)   (Millions)
Town of
                 Sewer Replacements –
Shubuta/                                    Rec        408       $28,630         2021    $ 0.3 M    $ 0.225 M      N/A             N/A         $459.1M
                 Phase II
MS00330155
Harrison
                 Improvements and
County Utility
                 repairs at the East
Authority/                                  Rec      206,011     $47,980         2021    $ 2.4 M       N/A         N/A             N/A         $461.5M
                 Biloxi (Keegan Bayou)
MS0023159
                 treatment plant (SP-14)
Harrison
                 Upgrades and
County Utility
                 modifications at the                206,011     $47,980
Authority/                                  Rec                                  2021    $ 0.3 M       N/A         N/A             N/A         $461.8M
                 East Biloxi (Keegan
MS0023159
                 Bayou) treatment plant
Harrison         Repairs and
County Utility   improvements at the
                                                     206,011     $47,980
Authority/       West Biloxi treatment      Rec                                  2021    $ 2.7 M       N/A         N/A             N/A         $464.5M
MS0030333        plant headworks
                 (SP-15)
Harrison
                 Upgrades and
County Utility
                 modifications at the                206,011     $47,980
Authority/                                  Rec                                  2021    $ 0.3 M       N/A         N/A             N/A         $464.8M
                 North D'Iberville
MS0061221
                 treatment plant (SP-17)
Town of
Verona/          Sewer Rehab               F&W        3,014      $26,691         2021    $ 2.0 M       N/A         N/A             N/A         $466.1M
MS0042048




                                                                           457
                                           FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                           Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)-Continued

                                                                                                        Eligible       Estimated
                                                                   2019
                                                                                                       Small/Low         Green        Green Project   Statewide
  Project/                                                        Median    Requested      Loan
                       Project             Stream                                                       Income          Project          Reserve        Cum.
  Permit                                            Population    House-     Funding      Amount                        Reserve
                      Description          Class.                                                       Subsidy                         Category/      Loan $
  Number                                                           Hold        FY        Requested                    Eligibility $
                                                                                                       Amount $                       Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                  Income                                               (Millions)
                                                                                                       (Millions)
Tunica County   Upgrades/Improvements
Utility          to treatment facilities
District/            and associated        F&W        10,549      $32,600      2021        $2.1M          N/A            N/A              N/A         $466.9M
MS0048691       collection and transport
                        system(s)
City of
Laurel/         Rehabilitation of
                                           F&W        18,050      $32,940      2021        $3.3 M         N/A             N/A             N/A         $470.2M
MS0024163       existing sewer lines
MS0020196
Louisville
Utilities/      East Lagoon Pump           F&W         6,178      $28,733                  $1.8 M         N/A             N/A             N/A
                                                                               2021                                                                   $472.0M
MS0025640       Station Rehab
City of
Corinth/        Sewer Rehab                F&W        14,594      $35,217      2021        $3.0 M         N/A            N/A              N/A         $475.0M
MS0061328
                Upgrade Trahon-Big
City of
                Creek POTW to be
Jackson/                                   F&W        167,660     $39,057      2021       $10.0 M         N/A            N/A              N/A         $485.0M
                able to meet Phase II
MS0044059
                Limits
City of
                West Bank Interceptor
Jackson/                                              167,660     $39,057
                Rehab (multiple areas)     F&W                                 2021       $14.0 M         N/A             N/A             N/A         $499.0M
MS0024295

                Stouts Bayou
City of         Interceptor, Riverside
Vicksburg/      Interceptor & Dorsey       F&W        22,899      $31,227      2021`       $8.0M          N/A             N/A             N/A         $507.0M
MS0022381       Street Force Main
                Rehab

                                                                             458
                                          FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                          Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)-Continued

                                                                                                       Eligible       Estimated
                                                                  2019
                                                                                                      Small/Low         Green        Green Project   Statewide
   Project/                                                      Median    Requested      Loan
                       Project            Stream                                                       Income          Project          Reserve        Cum.
   Permit                                          Population    House-     Funding      Amount
                      Description         Class.                                                       Subsidy         Reserve         Category/      Loan $
   Number                                                         Hold        FY        Requested                    Eligibility $
                                                                                                      Amount $                       Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                 Income                                               (Millions)
                                                                                                      (Millions)
City of Flora/   New effluent pump
                                          F&W         2,126      $60,984      2021        $ 2.0 M        N/A            N/A              N/A         $509.0M
MS005579         station & force main
Town of
Terry/           Wastewater Treatment     F&W         1,090      $56,018      2021        $ 1.1 M        N/A            N/A              N/A         $510.1M
MS0025224        Plant Upgrade
                 Reduce inflow and
Harrison
                 infiltration (I&I)
County
                 associated with sewer
Utility                                   F&W        206,011     $47,980      2021       $ 11.0 M        N/A            N/A              N/A         $521.1M
                 collection flow to the
Authority/
                 North Gulfport WWTF
MS0051756
                 (SLT-07A)
                 Reduce inflow and
Harrison
                 infiltration (I&I)
County
                 associated with sewer                           $47,980
Utility                                   F&W        206,011                  2021       $ 11.0 M        N/A            N/A              N/A         $532.1M
                 collection flow to the
Authority/
                 South Gulfport WWTF
MS0051756
                 (SLT-08A)




                                                                            459
                                            FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                            Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)-Continued

                                                                                                            Eligible    Estimated
                                                                      2019                                                Green
                                                                                                           Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
                                                                     Median     Requested      Loan                      Project
    Project/              Project            Stream                                                         Income                       Reserve        Cum.
                                                       Population    House-      Funding      Amount                     Reserve
 Permit Number           Description         Class.                                                         Subsidy     Eligibility     Category/      Loan $
                                                                      Hold         FY        Requested
                                                                                                           Amount $         $         Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                     Income
                                                                                                           (Millions)   (Millions)
                     Repairs and
Harrison County
                     improvements at the
Utility Authority/                                      206,011
                     Long Beach/Pass          F&W                    $47,980         2021     $ 1.4 M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $533.5M
MS0043141
                     Christian treatment
                     plant (SP-20)
                     Upgrades and
Harrison County
                     modifications at the
Utility Authority/                                      206,011
                     South Woolmarket         F&W                    $47,980         2021     $ 0.2 M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $533.7M
MS0061204
                     treatment plant
                     (SP-16)
Jackson County        WJC Artificial
Utility Authority/   Wetlands WWTF            F&W       145,073      $49,773         2021     $ 2.4 M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $536.1M
MSU085050            Rehab
                     Eliminate several
City of
                     pump stations and
Ridgeland/
                     divert flow to           F&W        26,883      $55,917         2021     $ 1.5 M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $537.6M
MS0024295
                     nearby gravity
                     sewers
DeSoto Co.           Johnson Creek
Regional             WWTF Upgrades            F&W       185,023      $67,154         2021     $ 84.0 M        N/A         N/A             N/A         $621.6M
UA/MS0061271         2MGD to 16MGD
DeSoto Co.           Horn Lake Pump
Regional             Station & Force          F&W       185,023      $67,154         2021     $38.6 M         N/A         N/A             N/A         $660.2M
UA/MS0061271         Main




                                                                               460
                                               FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                            Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)-Continued

                                                                                                     Eligible
                                                               2019                                                Estimated
                                                                                                    Small/Low                     Green Project   Statewide
                                                              Median      Requested      Loan                     Green Project
    Project/           Project        Stream                                                         Income                          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                                Population    House-       Funding      Amount                      Reserve
 Permit Number        Description     Class.                                                         Subsidy      Eligibility $     Category/         $
                                                               Hold          FY        Requested
                                                                                                    Amount $       (Millions)     Documentation   (Millions)
                                                              Income
                                                                                                    (Millions)
DeSoto Co.           Short Fork
Regional             WWTF             F&W        185,023      $67,154       2021        $ 21.2 M        N/A            N/A            N/A         $681.4M
UA/MS0058483         Expansion
Town of Walnut       Sewer System
Grove/               Improvements     F&W          781        $24,278       2021        $ 1.1 M       $ 0.8 M          N/A            N/A         $682.5M
MS0020982            (Phase 2)
Town of Walnut       Sewer System
Grove/               Improvements     F&W          781        $24,278       2021        $ 1.0 M       $ 0.8 M          N/A            N/A         $683.5M
MS0020982            (Phase 3)
                     Rehabilitation
                     of WWTF and
City of              build new
                                      F&W         7,585       $44,076       2021         $3.3M          N/A            N/A            N/A         $686.8M
Batesville/          building for
                     office and
                     laboratory
                     Implement
                     repairs,
                     modifications
Harrison County      and/or
                                      F&W        206,011      $47,980       2021         $9.4M          N/A            N/A            N/A         $696.2M
Utility Authority/   improvements
                     at the North
                     Gulfport
                     WWTF



                                                                              461
                Ross Road
DeSoto County
                WWTF
Regional UA/                      F&W       185,023       $67,154         2021          $2.7M         N/A          N/A              N/A          $698.9M
                Equalization
MS0029513
                Basin




                                        FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST – Continued

                                        Category 8: Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final Limits)-Continued

                                                                                                       Eligible    Estimated
                                                                 2019                                                Green
                                                                                                      Small/Low                  Green Project   Statewide
                                                                Median      Requested       Loan                    Project
   Project/          Project            Stream                                                         Income                       Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                                  Population    House-       Funding       Amount                   Reserve
Permit Number       Description         Class.                                                         Subsidy     Eligibility     Category/         $
                                                                 Hold          FY         Requested
                                                                                                      Amount $         $         Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                Income
                                                                                                      (Millions)   (Millions)
DeSoto County   Coldwater River
Regional UA/                            F&W         185,023     $67,154          2021      $23.9M           N/A      N/A            N/A8         $722.8M
                WWTF
MS0028479
DeSoto County
                Biosolids Handling
Regional UA/
                at Short Fork           F&W         185,023     $67,154          2021      $10.5M           N/A      N/A             N/A         $733.3M
MS0058483
                WWTF
MS0062227




                                                                           462
                                            FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                                    Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects

                                                                                                   Eligible     Estimated
                                                                          2019         Loan
                                                                                                  Small/Low       Green        Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                                  Requested      Median       Amount
                   Project         Stream                                                          Income        Project          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                             Population    Funding       House-      Requested                   Reserve
    Permit        Description      Class.                                                          Subsidy                       Category/         $
                                                             FY           Hold           $                     Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                         Amount $                     Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                         Income      (Millions)                 (Millions)
                                                                                                  (Millions)
Harrison         Improvements
County Utility   at the East
                                    Rec       206,011       2021         $47,980       $0.3M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $733.6M
Authority/       Biloxi WWTP
MS0023159        (SLT-03)
                 Installation of
                 wastewater
Jackson
                 transmission
County Utility                     F&W        145,073       2021         $49,773       $7.2M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $740.8M
                 from multiple
Authority/
                 sites to GAU
                 WWTF
                 Provide
Harrison         sewage
County Utility   collection to                206,011
                                   F&W                      2021         $47,980       $0.8M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $741.6M
Authority/       anticipated
MS0051756        developing
                 areas (SP-10)
DeSoto Co.
                 Dry Creek
Regional UA/                       F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154       $3.0M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $744.6M
                 Interceptor
MS0058483
DeSoto Co.       Lower Camp
Regional UA/     Creek Force       F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154       $3.1M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $747.7M
MS0058483        Main

                                                                           463
DeSoto Co.
               Twin Lakes
Regional UA/                 F&W   185,023   2021+   $67,154   $6.6M   N/A   N/A   N/A   $754.3M
               Interceptor
MS0061271




                                                       464
                                       FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                         Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects-Continued


                                                                                             Eligible     Estimated
                                                                     2019        Loan
                                                                                            Small/Low       Green        Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                             Requested      Median      Amount
                Project       Stream                                                         Income        Project          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                        Population    Funding       House-     Requested                   Reserve
    Permit     Description    Class.                                                         Subsidy                       Category/         $
                                                        FY           Hold          $                     Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                   Amount $                     Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                    Income     (Millions)                 (Millions)
                                                                                            (Millions)
               Middle
               Coldwater
DeSoto Co.
               Force Main,
Regional UA/                  F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154     $25.4M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $779.7M
               Pump
MS0058483
               Station, and
               Interceptor
               Upper
DeSoto Co.     Coldwater
Regional UA/   Force Main     F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154      $7.6M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $787.3M
MS0058483      and Pump
               Station
DeSoto Co.     Byhalia
Regional UA/   Creek          F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154      $3.0M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $790.3M
MS0058483      Interceptor
DeSoto Co.     Duck Pond
Regional UA/   Bayou          F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154      $4.6M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $794.9M
MS0061271      Interceptor
DeSoto Co.     Wolf Creek
Regional UA/   Pump           F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154      $0.7M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $795.6M
MS0061271      Station
DeSoto Co.     Cub Lake/
Regional UA/   Wolf Creek     F&W        185,023       2021+        $67,154      $3.3M         N/A          N/A              N/A         $798.9M
MS0061271      Force Main


                                                                     465
                                        FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                          Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects-Continued



                                                                                             Eligible      Estimated
                                                                      2019       Loan
                                                                                            Small/Low        Green        Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                                Requested    Median     Amount
                 Project       Stream                                                        Income         Project          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                           Population    Funding     House-    Requested                    Reserve
   Permit       Description    Class.                                                        Subsidy                        Category/         $
                                                           FY         Hold         $                      Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                   Amount $                      Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                     Income    (Millions)                  (Millions)
                                                                                            (Millions)
               Panther Creek
DeSoto Co.     Interceptor,
Regional UA/   Pump Station,   F&W          185,023       2021+     $67,154      $6.2M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $805.1M
MS0061271      and Force
               Main
               Highway 61
DeSoto Co.     Interceptor,
Regional UA/   Pump Station,   F&W          185,023       2021+     $67,154      $7.3M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $812.4M
MS0061271      and Force
               Main
               Blue Springs
DeSoto Co.
               Lake Force
Regional UA/                   F&W          185,023       2021+     $67,154      $1.5M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $813.9M
               Main and
MS0061271
               Pump Station
               Lower
               Coldwater
DeSoto Co.
               Interceptor,
Regional UA/                   F&W          185,023       2021+     $67,154     $23.9M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $837.8M
               Pump Station,
MS0058483
               and Force
               Main




                                                                      466
               Cub Lake
DeSoto Co.
               Bayou Pump
Regional UA/                 F&W   185,023   2021+   $67,154   $2.5M   N/A   N/A   N/A   $840.3M
               Station and
MS0061271
               Force Main




                                                      467
                                          FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                            Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects-Continued


                                                                                               Eligible      Estimated
                                                                        2019       Loan
                                                                                              Small/Low        Green        Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                                  Requested    Median     Amount
                   Project       Stream                                                        Income         Project          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                             Population    Funding     House-    Requested                    Reserve
   Permit         Description    Class.                                                        Subsidy                        Category/         $
                                                             FY         Hold         $                      Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                     Amount $                      Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                       Income    (Millions)                  (Millions)
                                                                                              (Millions)
                 White’s Creek
DeSoto Co.
                 Pump Station
Regional UA/                     F&W          185,023       2021+     $67,154      $6.0M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $846.3M
                 and Force
MS0061271
                 Main
                 Upgrades to
Jackson
                 the JCUA
County Utility                   F&W          145,073       2021      $49,773      $6.5M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $852.8M
                 WJC POTW
Authority/
                 01C facility
DeSoto           Hurricane
County           Creek Force
                                 F&W          185,023       2021      $67,154     $11.1M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $863.9M
Regional UA/     Main and
MS0061271        Pump Station
DeSoto
                 Hurricane
County
                 Creek           F&W          185,023       2021      $67,154      $6.8M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $870.7M
Regional UA/
                 Interceptor
MS0061271
DeSoto
                 Braybourne/
County
                 Pine Crest      F&W          185,023       2021      $67,154      $6.1M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $876.8M
Regional UA/
                 Interceptor
MS0058483




                                                                        468
                                       FISCAL YEAR –2021 AND AFTER PLANNING LIST - Continued

                                         Category 9: New Facilities (Developmental) Projects-Continued



                                                                                            Eligible      Estimated
                                                                    2019        Loan
                                                                                           Small/Low        Green        Green Project   Statewide
Project/                                             Requested     Median      Amount
                 Project      Stream                                                        Income         Project          Reserve      Cum. Loan
                                        Population    Funding      House-     Requested                    Reserve
   Permit       Description   Class.                                                        Subsidy                        Category/         $
                                                        FY          Hold          $                      Eligibility $
   Number                                                                                  Amount $                      Documentation   (Millions)
                                                                   Income     (Millions)                  (Millions)
                                                                                           (Millions)
DeSoto         Nonconnah
County         Creek Force
                              F&W        185,023        2021       $67,154      $7.0M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $883.8M
Regional UA/   Main and
MS0058483      Pump Station
DeSoto
               Nonconnah
County
               Creek          F&W        185,023        2021       $67,154      $9.5M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $893.3M
Regional UA/
               Interceptor
MS0058483
DeSoto         Upper
County         Coldwater
                              F&W        185,023        2021       $67,154     $11.7M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $905.0M
Regional UA/   Interceptor
MS0058483      (North)
DeSoto         Upper
County         Coldwater
                              F&W        185,023        2021       $67,154      $4.2M         N/A           N/A              N/A         $909.2M
Regional UA/   Interceptor
MS0058483      (South)




                                                                     469
                                 Abbreviations/Definitions

Co. Bd. of Sup. =   County Board of Supervisors

Coll =              Wastewater collection sewers which receive wastewater directly from
                    residences and businesses.

Cont. =             Contract

Drainage Basin =    A region of land where water from rain drains downhill into a body of
                    water, such as a river, lake, dam, estuary, wetland, sea or ocean.

HWY =               Highway

Int =               Wastewater interceptor sewers, pump stations, and force mains.

Rehab =             Sewer system rehabilitation to remove excessive infiltration and inflow
                    and/or to remove overflows and bypasses of wastewater.

Replacement =       Replacement of collection and interceptor lines

Segment =           Segmented project, a project for which the allowable costs exceed, in a
                    given fiscal year, the amount that the Department can provide.

Trt =               Wastewater treatment facilities.




                                             470
                              Priority System for FY-20 Projects

D.   Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program Ranking and Funding Rationale

     1. Projects will be ranked on one of the following three Priority lists.

         -       Small/Low Income Communities Priority List – To be ranked on this list a project
                 must meet the definition of projects described in one of the WPCRLF Priority
                 System Categories Three (3) through Eight (8) as outlined in Section IV.E,
                 below; and must serve a community/loan applicant which has a population of
                 4,000 or less and a median household income of $40,000 or less. Projects on this
                 list will be ranked within their respective categories based on the “affordability
                 criteria” outlined in Part II, Section III.O, below.

                 For the purposes of this section, a “community” is generally defined as the entire
                 area within the applicant’s political boundaries (incorporated area, certified area,
                 etc.); however, if a county is the applicant, a clearly defined area within the
                 county which is to be served by the proposed project, and which is not within the
                 political boundaries of any other entity within the county, may be considered the
                 community if determined appropriate and reasonable by the Department.


                 The median household income used in this determination shall be that defined in
                 the ESRI Business Analyst 2019 Demographics and Income Profile (the same
                 source which previously published the Community Sourcebook of Zip Code
                 Demographics, historically used for such determinations in the WPCRLF
                 Program).


                 Projects ranked on this Priority List will be eligible to receive loan subsidy in the
                 form of principal forgiveness equal to 75% of the total loan amount. After bids
                 are received the subsidy amount will be adjusted, to reflect 75% of the amount
                 resulting from subtraction of any included construction contingency from the
                 total as-bid loan amount, provided adequate subsidy remains available for any
                 needed loan increases. Notwithstanding the above-described subsidy percentage,
                 the cumulative subsidy provided to any single recipient for projects ranked on
                 this Small/Low Income priority list shall not exceed $2,000,000.


                 To insure that the “small/low income communities” have a dedicated source of
                 loan funds and will not have to compete with larger/higher income communities
                 for funding, the Department is setting aside $18.4 million in available funds for
                 qualifying projects in small/low income communities. However, subsidy fund
                 availability for these projects will be limited as described in Section IV.D.6. Any
                 funds not obligated for small/ low income communities by September 15, 2020
                 may be released and made available to any eligible loan recipient on the regular


                                               471
             or green “project” reserve priority list, or to any project on the FY-21 and After
             Planning List which is ready for loan award.


             “Green Project Reserve” Priority List – To be ranked on this list a project must
             meet the definition of projects described in any of the WPCRLF Priority System
             Categories as outlined in Section IV.E, below; and, at least 25% of the scope of
             work must qualify as “green,” as determined by EPA’s 2012 CWSRF 10% Green
             Project Reserve: Guidance for Determining Project Eligibility.


             To ensure that “green projects” have a dedicated source of loan funds and will not
             have to compete with “regular” projects for funding, the Department is setting
             aside $9.5 million in available funds for “green” projects. Any funds not
             obligated for “green project reserve” projects by September 15, 2020 may be
             released and made available to any eligible loan recipient on the regular or small/
             low income priority list, or to any project on the FY-21 and After Planning List
             which is ready for loan award.


             During its solicitation of projects for FY-20 funding the Department did not
             receive sufficient eligible applications for green infrastructure, water or energy
             efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative activities to be
             able to obligate ten percent (10%) of the FY-20 allotment to “green projects.”
             Therefore, in an effort to meet the “Green Project Reserve” objective, the
             Department intends to continue pursuing “green” projects, and carry these FY-20
             funds over into FY-21 to be obligated in the FY-21 Intended Use Plan.


     -       Regular WPCRLF Priority List – All other ranked projects that do not qualify for
             the Small/Low Income Communities Priority List or the “Green Project Reserve”
             Priority List will be placed on the Regular WPCRLF Priority List.

2.       Projects will be placed on the applicable priority list according to priority ranking and
         will be awarded loans based upon each project’s readiness to award.

         -       The order of project categories in this Priority System reflect the
                 Department’s mission statement, “... to safeguard the health, safety and
                 welfare of present and future generations of Mississippians by conserving and
                 improving our environment and fostering wise economic growth through
                 focused research and responsible regulation.” The Department’s intent in
                 developing this priority system is to fund projects in the order of greatest
                 benefit to the public health and the environment, and within certain categories
                 to assist those communities that are least able to afford the needed
                 environmental facilities without a low interest loan available through this
                 program.




                                           472
     -       The term "ready to award" means that all loan application requirements
             established in the program regulations are met, and all documents necessary
             for loan award are approved. If a project cannot reasonably be expected to
             meet the Priority System deadlines, then the project will not be placed on the
             current year priority list, but rather will be placed on the planning list. Loans
             will be awarded for projects within the available funds in the following order:

         a. Projects on the current year priority lists that meet all Priority System
            deadlines will be funded when they are ready to award.

         b. Should any project on the current year priority lists fail to comply with any of
            the deadlines in this Priority System, the funds reserved for said project will
            be released and made available to projects on the current year priority list that
            are ready to award, on a first-come first-served basis.

         c. If it becomes apparent that the projects on the current year’s priority lists will
            not utilize all assumed available funds by the end of the current fiscal year,
            projects on the planning list that are ready to award will be funded from these
            remaining funds on a first-come, first-served basis.

         d. Should less than the assumed funds become available, projects shown for
            funding in the current fiscal year that are ready to award will be funded as
            described above within the available funds.

         e. Should more than the assumed funds become available from loan decreases,
            early loan payoffs, or other sources, these funds may be used for loan
            increases, to increase project amounts shown for funding in the current fiscal
            year, and/or to fund projects on the planning list that are ready to award, as
            determined appropriate by the Department.

         f. Subsidy funds will be awarded as described in Section IV.D.6.

3.   Coordination With Mississippi Basin Management Approach

     Recognizing that the health and welfare of Mississippians, wildlife, fish and other
     aquatic life are directly affected by the quality of Mississippi’s waters, the
     Department began implementing the Basin Management Approach (BMA) in 1998.
     The BMA is a collaborative, interagency initiative designed to improve and maintain
     the quality of our water resources through comprehensive long-range water quality
     planning and management strategies. The BMA includes planning, data gathering,
     data assessment, Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) development, development of
     watershed management plans, and watershed project implementation.

     In order to support the worthwhile goals of the BMA, higher ranking will be given to
     projects identified by the Basin Management Branch that implement watershed
     management plans to address water body impairments. These high priority BMA
     projects will be ranked at the beginning of each Priority Category beginning with the
     Raw Discharge Category through the Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final
     Limits) Category. If a Priority Category is divided into various subcategories, these

                                       473
projects will be ranked at the beginning of each subcategory.




                                 474
     If more than one high priority BMA project is ranked in a priority category, these
     projects will be moved to the beginning of that category and or subcategory and will
     be ranked in accordance with the Priority System.

4.   WPCRLF Loans to Match EPA Special Appropriations Projects (SPAPs)

     On August 16, 2001 EPA issued a class deviation from the provisions of 40 CFR
     35.3125(b)(1). This class deviation will allow the non-federal, non-state match
     WPCRLF funds to be used to provide loans that can be used as local match for SPAP
     grants awarded to construct water pollution control projects.

     These non-federal, non-state match WPCRLF loan funds will be made available to
     eligible SPAP grant recipients that are on the current year priority list for use as local
     match funds for their SPAP grants, provided the SPAP grant is for WPCRLF loan
     eligible work. Such projects will be funded in accordance with the Priority System,
     and until all non-federal, non-state match monies have been obligated or demand for
     such funds has been met.

5.   Loan Increase Reserve

     Beginning in FY-2001 the Department began making loan awards after approval of
     the facilities plan and loan application rather than after completion of design. This
     change in the loan award sequence increases the likelihood that bid overruns may be
     greater than the construction contingency included in the loan agreement, and that
     additional loan funds may be needed to ensure that these projects are completed. In
     order to provide needed loan increases to existing loans, the Commission intends to
     set aside the amounts identified in Appendix A for such loan increases to be awarded
     on a first-come, first-served basis. Any funds not obligated for this purpose by the
     end of the fiscal year may be made available for new loans ready for award on a first-
     come, first-served basis from either the Priority List or the Planning List.

     If these loan increase reserve funds are exhausted during the year, and additional
     funds are needed for loan increases to cover bid overruns or other project cost
     increases to ensure that on-going projects are completed, the Department may use
     funds recovered from loan decreases or other sources during the year to fund such
     needed loan increases.

6.   Subsidy Increase Reserve

     Due to the limited nature of subsidy funding, an amount of $600,000 will be reserved
     until September 1, 2020, for making subsidy increases after bids to subsidy-eligible
     projects funded prior to FY-2020. The total amount of subsidy resulting from any
     such increase shall be limited as outlined in Section IV.D.1. Any available subsidy
     funds not reserved, or obligated for such increases by September 1, 2020, may be
     made available first for subsidy-eligible projects funded in FY-19 which did not
     already receive subsidy, then for funding new subsidy-eligible projects in priority
     order on the FY-20 “Small Low Income” Priority List, as outlined in Section IV.D.1.



                                       475
E.        Priority System Categories

     1.   The first category of projects on the Priority List will be the Segmented Projects.
          These projects include any remaining segments of projects that previously received
          funding for an integral portion of that project, and are necessary for the entire project
          to be functional. Projects will be funded under this category in order of their regular
          priority ranking provided they meet the deadlines established in Section F.

          In order to maintain continuity, the Commission intends to make some amount of
          funds available for each ongoing-segmented project. Preference in the amount of
          funds to be provided will be given to the projects that received the earliest loan award
          for their initial segment.

     2.   The second category of projects will be the Previous Year Standby Projects. This
          category of projects includes projects that 1) were listed on the previous year’s
          Planning List within an amount of approximately 25% of that year’s total available
          funds, 2) met all applicable Priority System deadlines in the previous fiscal year, and
          3) were not funded because of a lack of WPCRLF funds or did not receive an
          assurance of CDBG, ARC, RUS, CIAP or other match funding in the previous fiscal
          year. Within this category, these projects will be ranked according to the current
          Priority System.

     3.   The third category of projects will be the Raw Discharge Correction Projects for
          communities with sewage collection systems but no treatment facilities. This is
          necessary to ensure that the water quality problems associated with continuous
          discharges of untreated sewage from these systems are addressed as required by the
          federal Clean Water Act. Projects within this category will be ranked in order of the
          highest estimated discharge flow rate.

          If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project

          will be ranked at the beginning of the list within this category.


     4.   The fourth category of projects will be the Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting
          Final Limits) Projects. The scope of these projects may include only the upgrade,
          expansion, replacement, rehabilitation, and repair (including infiltration/inflow
          removal) of existing wastewater transportation and treatment facilities, or drinking
          water sludge discharge treatment facilities, necessary to bring the existing treatment
          facility into compliance with final effluent limitations, or to eliminate existing
          facilities not meeting final limits. Projects will be funded under this category in order
          of priority points, provided they meet the deadlines established in the Priority
          System. The priority points will be determined as established in Section G of this
          Priority System. These projects will not be considered for funding if a Commission
          Order schedule requires construction of these projects substantially prior to the
          Priority System deadlines


                                             476
     If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
     will be ranked at the beginning of the list within this category.

5.   The fifth category will be Non-Point Source and Storm Water Pollution Correction
     Projects which may include program costs, conservation easements, sedimentation
     basins, levees, canals and other structures for the purpose of correcting non-point and
     storm water sources of pollution.

     These projects must be consistent with any applicable Section 319 Management
     Programs approved by the Department of Environmental Quality. The projects
     within this category will be ranked in order of the highest receiving stream
     classification that is being negatively impacted by these sources of pollution.

     Receiving stream classifications will be ranked in the following order: Public Water
     Supply; Shellfish Harvesting; Recreation; Fish & Wildlife; and Ephemeral. Within
     each stream classification, projects will be ranked by the highest acreage of runoff
     that is contributing to the non-point and/or storm water sewer pollution problem, and
     that will be addressed by the project.

     If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
     will be ranked at the beginning of the list within the subcategory where the project is
     currently ranked.

6.   The sixth category will be the New Collection – Existing Buildings Projects that are
     necessary to construct eligible sewers and treatment facilities for existing (at the time
     of facilities plan submittal) residences, businesses and public buildings. Projects in
     this category may not include the construction of wastewater treatment or
     transportation facilities to serve areas that are not developed at the time of facilities
     plan submittal.

     The system for ranking collection systems is designed to give highest ranking to
     those projects serving an individual drainage basin within the loan recipient’s
     political boundaries that: 1) will correct the most potential health problems (this is
     described below by the term “Residences Served”) and 2) are most cost effective (this
     is described below by the term "Residences Served/Total Eligible Cost for Entire
     Project"). Priority points will then be calculated as follows:

             Priority Pts. = (Residences Served) x (Residences Served) x 1000
                                  (Total Eligible Cost for Entire Project)

     If ties occur in priority points those projects will be ranked according to the highest
     number of residences served. The term "residences served" includes businesses and
     public buildings.


     The term "Total Eligible Cost for Entire Project" means the total eligible cost to

     construct the collection and interceptor system for an individual drainage basin within

                                       477
     the loan recipient’s political boundaries and to cause the wastewater treatment facility

     to meet final effluent limits at the time the collection project is predicted for funding.


     Except as allowed in Section IV.E.11, collection sewers will not be funded prior to

     funding of the treatment portion of a project necessary to cause the wastewater

     treatment facility to meet final effluent limits.




     If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
     will be ranked at the beginning of the list within this category.


7.   The seventh category of projects will be the Wastewater Overflow/Bypass
     Elimination Projects. The scope of these projects may include only the replacement,
     rehabilitation, and/or repair of existing transportation facilities that are necessary to
     eliminate documented bypasses and/or overflows of raw sewage from these
     transportation facilities for a 2 year, 24-hour rainfall event, as documented in the
     facilities plan for the project and approved by the Department.


     To be eligible for this category the bypasses and/or overflows documented in the

     facilities plan must have been reported, by the deadline for submission of the

     facilities plan, to the Department in accordance with the requirements of the loan

     applicant’s NPDES permit.




     These projects will be ranked in order of the highest receiving stream classification

     that will be negatively impacted by the bypass and/or overflow. Receiving stream

     classifications will be ranked in the following order:




                                        478
     Public Water Supply, Shellfish Harvesting, Recreation, Fish & Wildlife, and

     Ephemeral. Within each stream classification above, projects will be ranked from the

     lowest to the highest 2019 median household income as displayed in the publication

     “ESRI Business Analyst Demographic and Income Profile Report”.




     If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
     will be ranked at the beginning of the list within the subcategory the project is
     currently ranked.


8.   The eighth category of projects will be the Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final
     Limits) Projects. Included within the scope of these projects may be the upgrade,
     expansion, replacement, rehabilitation, and repair of existing wastewater treatment
     and transportation facilities, including the removal of infiltration/inflow. The scope
     of these projects may not include the construction of new wastewater treatment or
     transportation facilities if none now exists.

     These projects will be ranked first in order of the highest receiving stream

     classification that would be negatively impacted by wastewater should the facilities to

     be upgraded fail. Receiving stream classifications will be ranked in the following

     order:


     Public Water Supply, Shellfish Harvesting, Recreation, Fish & Wildlife, and

     Ephemeral. Within each stream classification above, projects will be ranked from the

     lowest to the highest 2019 median household income as displayed in the publication

     “ESRI Business Analyst Demographic and Income Profile Report”.




     If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
     will be ranked at the beginning of the list within the subcategory the project is
     currently ranked.



                                       479
     9.        The ninth category will be New Facilities (Developmental) Projects. These projects
               may include the expansion or upgrade of existing wastewater treatment and
               transportation facilities and the construction of new wastewater treatment and
               transportation facilities to accommodate future growth within the design flow for the
               planning area to be served. Transportation facilities may include interceptors, pump
               stations, force mains, and collector lines. The projects within this category will be
               ranked from the lowest to the highest 2019 median household income for the
               community, as displayed in the publication "ERSI Business Analyst Demographic
               and Income Profile Report”.

     10.       The tenth and final category will be Industrial Projects. The facilities to be built or
               upgraded under this category must be owned and constructed by a WPCRLF loan
               eligible public entity and may include industrial wastewater treatment and
               transportation facilities. The projects within this category will be ranked from the
               lowest to the highest 2019 median household income for the community, or nearest
               community, as displayed in the publication "ERSI Business Analyst Demographic
               and Income Profile Report”.

     11.       New collection sewer projects will be funded only under the New Collection –
               Existing Buildings category or the New Facilities (Developmental Projects) category.

     12.       The complete treatment portion of a project, as necessary to cause the wastewater
               treatment facility to meet final limits, must be funded prior to or along with any other
               project portion, except in the case of a recently acquired facility that has or will be
               given interim limits with a schedule to meet the final limits. In such case other
               project portions may be funded first provided the facility complies with the schedule
               to meet final limits.



F.   Priority System Deadlines

     1. By December 15, 2019*, the loan applicant must submit to MDEQ the complete
        WPCRLF facilities plan, prepared in accordance with the WPCRLF loan program
        regulations and the “Guidance For Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund
        Projects Funded Beginning Federal FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and After).” A complete
        WPCRLF facilities plan includes all IGR agency comments; a copy of the public notice
        for the proposed project; copies of any comments received from the public; and, a
        summary of how each comment was addressed. The loan applicant should also submit
        one copy of the facilities plan to the Rural Utilities Service (formerly Farmers Home
        Administration) if the loan applicant has existing debt with Rural Utilities Service, along
        with a request for their approval to incur this additional debt.

           Any significant changes made to the facilities plan (i.e., changes in the chosen
           alternative, location of the facility, cost increases that substantially affect the financial
           capability of the loan recipient, etc.) after this date will be considered as a first submittal
           of the facilities plan. The loan applicant will then be considered to be in violation of this
           Priority System deadline and the project will be placed on the planning portion of the

                                                  480
            Priority List, or if the change is made after adoption of the Intended Use Plan, funds
            reserved for this project may be released and made available to other projects.


        2. By May 1, 2020*, a completed WPCRLF loan application and all associated documents
           required by the WPCRLF regulations and the “Guidance For Water Pollution Control
           Revolving Loan Fund Projects Funded Beginning Federal FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and
           After)” must be submitted to MDEQ. Prior to preparing these documents the loan
           recipient and/or consulting engineer should request and attend a pre-application
           conference. This deadline must be met to be able to qualify for the Previous Year
           Standby Category in the FY-21 IUP.

        3. By August 1, 2020 all approvable documents and responses to Department comments
           necessary for loan award must be submitted to the Department for review and approval.
           This deadline must be met to be able to qualify for the Previous Year Standby Category
           in the FY-21 IUP. Projects on the Planning List or projects on the current year list that
           had their funds released should also meet this deadline in order to allow for Department
           reviews/approvals necessary for loan award prior to the end of the fiscal year.

        4. By September 15, 2020 any “Small/Low Income” or “Green Project Reserve” funds that
           have not been awarded to a project may be released and made available to any project
           that is ready for loan award on a first-come, first-served basis.

            (*Note: Due to unavoidable delays in preparation of the FY-20 IUP, and adequate
            funds availability, projects for which this deadline was not met, but which may
            proceed to become ready for award before the end of the FY, have also been
            included on the FY-20 Priority List, provided that their inclusion did not adversely
            impact funding for any projects which met the deadline.)

G.      Priority Point Formula for Existing Facilities (Not Meeting Final Limits) Category
        Projects.

     1. Priority points for these projects will be calculated using the following formula for each
     stream classification impacted:


        Priority Points =       (Stream Classification Factor)
                                                         X
                                          (Existing Water Quality Problem Factor)
                                                         X
                                          (Achievement of Stream Use Factor)

                Calculation of Factors:

                a.      Stream Classification Factor - Factors will be assigned as follows based on
                        the type of stream that the present wastewater discharge impacts:
                        Stream Classification                                   Factor


                                                   481
     Ephemeral                                                1
     Fish & Wildlife (Q10/7 > 0)                              5
     Recreation                                               15
     Shellfish Harvesting                                     25
     Public Water Supply                                      30

     Stream classifications for all bodies of water within the State have been
     established and adopted by the Commission on Environmental Quality as part
     of the State Water Quality Standards.

     Recreational waters are those which have been classified as such by the
     Commission.

b.   Existing Water Quality Problem Factor - Factors will be assigned based on the
     extent of the water quality problem presently caused by the existing
     wastewater discharge. The Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor, the Public
     Health/ Bacteria Problem Factor, the Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor, and
     the Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor will be added to arrive at the total
     Existing Water Quality Problem Factor.

     Water Quality Problem Factor = D. O. Problem Factor + Public
     Health/Bacteria Problem Factor + Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor +
     Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor + 1 (if a minimum of secondary treatment
     is not presently provided).

     i.      Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor - This factor will be determined
             by use of the BOD, and flow values specified in the present
             limitations of the NPDES permit, unless significantly different from
             present effluent characteristics. These limitations will be entered into
             the standard wasteload allocation formula and a minimum dissolved
             oxygen concentration in the stream will be predicted for the existing
             wastewater discharge. The dissolved oxygen deficit is the difference
             between the dissolved oxygen standard, which is normally 5.0 mg/l,
             and the predicted minimum dissolved oxygen in the stream.

             This dissolved oxygen deficit is then multiplied by the stream miles
             (or equivalent stream miles) which presently have a dissolved oxygen
             concentration below the designated standard to obtain the Dissolved
             Oxygen Problem Factor as shown below:

             Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor = (D.O. deficit) x (Stream or
             Equivalent Stream miles below standard)

             In order to rank all projects (on both inland and estuary waters)
             together, it is necessary to develop a relationship between stream
             miles impacted and estuary waters impacted. The term "equivalent
             stream miles" has been developed for estuaries based on the premise
             that the surface area of a body of water most directly represents the
             value of the water body in terms of a fisheries resource, recreational

                               482
       use, etc. In calculation of "equivalent stream miles" it is assumed that
       a typical stream width is 50 feet. The area (in square feet) of the
       estuary impacted, as determined by the math model, is then divided
       by {50 feet x 5,280 feet/mile} to give the "equivalent stream miles".
       Equivalent stream miles will only be calculated for bay-like estuary
       segments. All other estuary segments will be measured in actual
       miles like freshwater streams.

       For streams impacted by more than one discharge, the D.O. problem
       factor will be determined by using the difference between the D.O.
       factor with all discharges and the D.O. factor considering the
       discharge in question removed. If there is more than one discharge

        from the same project on the same stream, miles impacted will only
       be counted once.

ii.    Public Health/Bacteria Problem Factor - This factor will be
       determined based on whether or not the existing discharge has a
       bacterial impact on Recreational, Water Supply, Shellfish Harvesting
       or Fish & Wildlife waters. Discharges into Ephemeral waters are
       considered to have no bacterial impact, unless a public health problem
       can be documented in the receiving stream.

       A discharge into Recreational, Water Supply, or Fish & Wildlife
       waters is considered to have a bacterial impact on such waters if the
       discharge is not disinfected, or if present disinfection facilities are
       inadequate. A discharge is considered to have a bacterial impact on
       Shellfish harvesting waters if the National Shellfish Sanitation
       Program Criteria are not met in the waters impacted by the discharge
       or if present disinfection facilities are inadequate.

       Factors will be assigned for the bacteria problem as follows:

               No Impact       - 0
               Bacteria Impact - 20

iii.   Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor - This factor will be determined
       by use of the NH3, and flow values specified in the present limitations
       of the NPDES permit, unless significantly different from the present
       effluent characteristics. If an NH3 limit is not present in the permit, an
       NH3 concentration typical of the effluent from the current facility will
       be selected. As with the Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor, these
       limitations will be entered into the standard wasteload allocation
       formula and an in-stream NH3 concentration will be predicted for the
       existing wastewater discharge. The NH3 exceedance is the difference
       between the predicted maximum NH3 in the stream and the acceptable
       concentration (EPA Gold Book) protective of aquatic life.



                         483
                            This ammonia exceedance is then multiplied by the stream miles (or
                            equivalent stream miles) which presently have an NH3 concentration
                            above the acceptable level to obtain the Ammonia Toxicity Problem
                            Factor as shown below:

                            Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor = (NH3 exceedance) X (stream or
                            equivalent Stream miles above acceptable concentration)

                   iv.      Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor - This factor will be determined by
                            the difference in the previously allowed chlorine concentration in the
                            NPDES permit (usually 1.0 mg/l) and the new maximum chlorine
                            concentration allowed in the NPDES permit which will be multiplied
                            by a factor of 20.

                            Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor = (1.0 mg/l - the new maximum
                            chlorine concentration allowed in the NPDES permit in mg/l) X (20)

           c.      Achievement of Stream Use Factor - If the proposed project, along with other
                   proposed projects in the planning area, will cause achievement of all water
                   quality criteria then a factor of 2 will be assigned; except that if a stream
                   exception has been granted a factor of 1 will be assigned. Also, a factor of 1
                   will be assigned when all water quality criteria will not be met.

2. The projects in this category which eliminate existing discharges will receive the sum of the
priority points assigned to the discharges to be eliminated.

3. All portions of these projects (such as pump stations, force mains, sewer rehabilitation, and
interceptors) that are necessary to cause the environmental problem to be eliminated will receive
the same number of priority points as that calculated for the existing discharge(s), to which the
project portion is connected.

4. Project ties in priority points, which are calculated in accordance with Section B., will be
broken by ranking in order of the following ratio:

                                    lbs. BOD Removed by Project
                                    Total Eligible Cost for Project

   5.      Projects in this category that are not meeting final limits, but for which zero priority
           points are calculated (i.e., suspended solids violations, percent removal, BOD
           violations, etc.), will receive a minimum of 1.0 priority point, and will then be ranked
           in order of the stream classification of the receiving stream.




                                             484
   V.                         FY- 2020 Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Loan Fund Project Detail Information

   Projects/   Project     Communities            Project Schedule*                            Project Assistance                                       Technical Information
    Permit      No.          Served
   Number
                                                                                                                                Initial
                                                                               Type         Loam          Interest   Repay      Repay.      Type        Needs      Priority     Discharge
                                            BCD         CSD           CCD    Assistance    Amount1          Rate     Period      Date     Project**   Category +   Ranking        Req.
DCRUA/
               2020-1    DeSoto County     09/30/20   09/30/21   09/30/22   Regular Loan   $5.5 M          0.8%      20 Yrs    03/30/23     212           I            1          N/A
MS0028479
WJCUD/         2020-2    Jackson County    09/30/20   12/31/20   06/30/22   Regular Loan    $2.5M          0.8%      20 Yrs.   10/31/22     212          IIIB          2          N/A
Town of
Pelahatchie/   2020-3    Rankin County     09/30/20   03/10/21    1/04/22   Regular Loan   $3.0 M          0.8%      20 Yrs    05/04/22     212           I            3          N/A
MS0021008
DCRUA/
               2020-4    DeSoto County     09/30/20   09/30/21   09/30/22   Regular Loan   $12.8 M         0.8%      20 Yrs    03/30/23     212          IVB           6          N/A
MS0053155
WJCUD/         2020-5    Jackson County    09/30/20   10/31/20    4/30/22   Regular Loan    $7.8M          0.8%      20 Yrs.   10/31/22     212          IVA           7          N/A
HCUA/
               2020-6    Harrison County   09/30/20    1/23/22    1/23/23   Regular Loan    $4.0M          0.8%      20 Yrs.    8/15/23     212          IIIB          8          N/A
MS0043141
HCUA/
               2020-7    Harrison County   09/30/20    1/23/22    1/23/23   Regular Loan    $4.0M          0.8%      20 Yrs.    8/15/23     212          IIIB          9          N/A
MS0022373
City of
Cleveland/     2020-8    Cleveland         09/30/20   10/25/21   10/25/22   Regular Loan   $10.7 M         0.8%      20 Yrs    05/19/23     212          IIIA         11          N/A
MS0020567
City of
               2020-9    Greenville        09/30/20   03/31/21   03/31/22   Regular Loan   $14.6 M         0.8%      20 Yrs    07/31/22     212          IIIB         12          N/A
Greenville/
DCRUA/
               2020-10   DeSoto County     09/30/20   09/30/21   09/30/22   Regular Loan   $5.3 M          0.8%      20 Yrs    03/30/23     212          IVB          13          N/A
MS0061271
DCRUA/
               2020-11   DeSoto County     09/30/20   09/30/21   09/30/22   Regular Loan   $5.7 M          0.8%      20 Yrs    03/30/23     212          IVB          14          N/A
MS0061271
DCRUA/
               2020-12   DeSoto County     09/30/20   09/30/21   09/30/23   Regular Loan   $10.0 M         0.8%      20 Yrs.   03/30/24     212           I           15          N/A
MS0061271
Town of
Tutwiler/      2020-13   Tutwiler          09/30/20   4/30/21    4/30/22    Regular Loan    $6.7M          0.8%      20 Yrs.   10/31/22     212           I           16          N/A
MS0025054

                                                                                           $92.6 M


   Notes: - All of the loan projects will require an environmental review in accordance with the State SRF regulations and the supplemental “Guidance
          For Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Projects Funded Beginning Federal FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and After).”
          + = Needs categories are defined in Federal regulations 40 CFR 35.2015.
          *BCD = Binding Commitment Date
          *CSD = Construction Start Date
          *CCD = Construction Completion Date
          **212 = Treatment works are defined in Section 212 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
          **319 = Best Management Practices are defined in Section 319 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
   1
          Loan amounts have been rounded up to the next $100,000.
                                                                             485
VI.        FY-2020 Assumed Available Funds

      A.   Federal Funds

           In developing this Intended Use Plan the Department has used the actual FY-20 Title
           VI Clean Water SRF appropriations of $1,638,826,000, based on EPA’s FY-20
           allotment notification.

           Per Section B.5 of the Operating Agreement between the Mississippi Department of
           Environmental Quality and the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV the cash
           draw ratio is 83.3% federal funds and 16.7% state funds.

      B.   State Match Funds

           The State normally receives its 20% state match from direct appropriation or state
           general obligation bonds appropriated by the state legislature, and from interest
           earnings on state match deposits. During the Spring 2020 regular legislative session,
           the Legislature provided bond authorization in the amount of $2,830,000 to be used
           for state match funds. This will match the remainder of the FY-20 capitalization
           grant. It is expected that the bond proceeds will be deposited into the WPCRLF in
           the first quarter of FFY-2021.

           The Legislature will require that these state bonds be retired with the interest portion
           of loan repayments and interest earnings on the fund deposits. The Department will
           set aside a portion of the interest earnings from loan repayments and interest earnings
           on fund deposits and will use these funds to make semi-annual payments to the
           Mississippi State Treasurer’s Office. These semi-annual payments will be used to
           retire the bonds and pay interest on the outstanding bonds. The amounts of interest
           repayments and earnings set aside for this purpose will be shown on Appendix A –
           Assumed Available Funds in the FY-2021 IUP.

      C.   WPCRLF Loan Repayments

           In FY-20 the Department plans to make available for obligation, projected WPCRLF
           loan repayments (from existing closed loans) through September, 2020.




                                            486
VII.    Proposed Payment (Federal Letter of Credit {LOC}) Schedule for FY-2020. Clean Water
        SRF Cap. Grant, based upon Appendix A:

               Payment              Payment                Payment              Cumulative
               (LOC)                (LOC)                  (LOC)                  (LOC)
               Number               Date                   Amount                Amount


               FY-2018              3Q FY-2020         $ 11,137,402             $ 11,137,402
               No. 1 of 1

               FY-2019              1Q FY-2020         $ 14,315,000             $ 25,452,402
               No. 1 of 1

               FY-2020              4Q FY-2020         $    187,215             $ 25,639,617
               No. 1 of 2

               FY-2020              1Q FY-2021         $ 14,129,785             $ 39,736,402
               No. 2 of 2




VIII.   Projected Schedule of Drawdowns Against Federal Letter of Credit, based upon
        Appendix A:


        For FY 2018 SRF Cap Grant: (See Appendix B).

               Outlay                 Federal                    Cumulative
               Quarter              Outlay Amount               Outlay Amount

               1Q FY-21              $ 753,000                   $    753,000
               2Q FY-21              $ 1,631,501                 $ 2,384,501
               3Q FY-21              $ 3,932,335                 $ 6,316,836
               4Q FY-21              $ 4,820,566                 $ 11,137,402

        For FY 2019 SRF Cap Grant: (See Appendix B).

               Outlay                 Federal                    Cumulative
               Quarter              Outlay Amount               Outlay Amount

               4Q FY-21              $ 2,123,770                 $ 2,123,770
               1Q FY-22              $ 11,002,171                $ 13,125,941
               2Q FY-22              $ 1,189,059                 $ 14,315,000




                                              487
          For FY 2020 SRF Cap Grant: (See Appendix B).

                  Outlay                    Federal                        Cumulative
                  Quarter                 Outlay Amount                   Outlay Amount

                  2Q FY-22                  $ 14,317,000                   $ 14,317,000


IX.       Certifications

          1.      The State certifies that all treatment works for funding under this Intended Use Plan
                  are or will be in compliance with Section 205(j), 319 and/or 320 planning and that all
                  non-point source control and estuarine projects are or will be consistent with planning
                  under Sections 319 and/or 320.

          2.      The State certifies that it will make an annual report to the Regional Administrator on
                  the actual use of funds and how the State has met the goals and objectives for the
                  previous fiscal year as identified in the IUP; and to annually have conducted an
                  independent audit of the fund to be conducted in accordance with generally accepted
                  government accounting standards.

          3.      The State certifies that this Intended Use Plan has been subjected to public review
                  and comment prior to final submission to EPA.

      4. The State certifies that all wastewater facility projects in this Intended Use Plan are on the
      project Priority List developed pursuant to the requirements of Section 216, CWA.

          5.      The State certifies that it will enter into binding commitments for 120% of the
                  amount of each payment (LOC) under the capitalization grant within one year after
                  receipt of each payment (LOC).

          6.      The State certifies that it will expend all funds in the WPCRLF in an expeditious and
                  timely manner.

          7.      The State certifies that all wastewater facilities in the State are in compliance with
                  enforceable requirements or are making progress toward meeting those requirements.

          8.      The State certifies that it will conduct environmental reviews on treatment works
                  projects in accordance with the State environmental review process.

          9.      The State certifies that all POTWs listed on the national Municipal Policy List are
                  either in compliance with their final limits, have an enforcement action filed against
                  them, or have a funding commitment during or prior to the first year covered by this
                  IUP.




                                                    488
X.   Expected Environmental Outcomes and Performance Measures

     The objective of this program is to disperse all loan funds available in a timely manner in
     order to achieve the intended cost-effective environmental protection benefits, and to ensure
     compliance with loan agreements, as required by state and federal laws and regulations.

     The State agrees to complete a one-page worksheet for all binding commitments (final loan
     agreement). The State will also provide copies of the completed worksheets upon EPA’s
     request in order to demonstrate compliance with the EPA Order 5700.7.




                                             489
PART 2 – Additional Federal Requirements for Fiscal Year 2016 and After

I. Introduction

The Water Resources Reform and Development Act, 2014 (WRRDA), which was passed by
Congress and signed into law by the President on June 10, 2014, included amendments to the
Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) program authorized by Title VI of the Federal
Clean Water Act. Those amendments, along with the exhaustion of “banked equivalency/cross-
cutter compliance,” utilized by the Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF)
Program since FY-2001, required significant changes to the WPCRLF Program for loans
awarded October 1, 2014, and after. Some of those changes were implemented in FY-2015 as
required, and the remaining requirements were implemented in FY-2016. Additional optional
WRRDA-related changes will be considered for implementation in future fiscal years.

II. Supplemental Guidance

To assist in complying with the new requirements, MDEQ has prepared a supplemental guidance
document to be used in conjunction with the previously existing WPCRLF Regulations and
checklist/guidance. The document is entitled, “GUIDANCE FOR WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL REVOLVING LOAN FUND PROJECTS FUNDED BEGINNING FEDERAL FY
2016 (OCTOBER 1, 2015 AND AFTER),” is dated December 11, 2015, and is available for
viewing/downloading on MDEQ’s WPCRLF Program webpage by going to www.mdeq.ms.gov,
then under “For Government,” follow the links for “Grants, Loans, Trust Funds” then “Water
Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Fund Loan Program.”

III. Additional Requirements

A.      Endangered Species Act, Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, Migratory Bird Treaty Act,
        and (Only for projects located in Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock Counties) Coastal
        Barrier Resources Act (Cross-Cutters):

        The Loan Recipient/Consultant must submit a map and description of the proposed
        project to the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) Mississippi Ecological Services
        Field Office. The USFWS comments must be included in the facilities plan; and, if the
        USFWS requires further action (e.g. a vegetative/wildlife survey), such action must be
        taken, and the final USFWS clearance letter must be submitted to MDEQ with the loan
        application package.

B.      Sole Source Aquifer (Only for projects located in the Southern Hills Regional Aquifer
        System which is the area between the Mississippi and Pearl Rivers from and including
        Warren and Hinds Counties, south to the Louisiana State Line.) (Cross-Cutter):

        The Loan Recipient/Consultant must submit a map and description of the proposed
        project to the USEPA Region IV, Grants and Drinking Water Protection Branch, and
        include any resulting EPA comments in the facilities plan.

C.      Farmland Protection Policy Act (FPPA) (Cross-Cutter):

        All WPCRLF projects must now undergo Farmland Protection Policy Act review. The
                                         490
     MDEQ Project Manager will complete this review in accordance with the FY 2015
     Operating Procedure for FPPA. Once complete, copies of the compliance documentation
     will be provided to the Loan Recipient/Consultant for their planning files.

D.   Environmental Review {WRRDA Section 5002(1)}:

     All WPCRLF projects must now comply with 40CFR35.3140(b) {Tier 1 “NEPA-like”
     review}. Therefore, in addition to (or in lieu of) the requirements of Appendix B of the
     WPCRLF Regulations and Sections VI.C, VIII.B, and VIII.C, of the Facilities Plan
     Checklist, the following will be required:

     1. The comparative evaluation of alternatives in the facilities plan must also include any
        sensitive environmental issues that are identified during management of the project or
        through public participation.

     2. A public hearing must be held for ALL projects. Topics to be discussed at the
        hearing include the facilities to be built, why they are needed, where they will be
        built, how much they will cost, the average monthly user charge, and the
        environmental impact. The facilities plan must include proof that notice of the
        hearing was published in a newspaper of general circulation in the project area at least
        30 days prior to the hearing date. The plan must also include minutes from the
        hearing, including any public comments.

     When the facilities plan is approvable, the MDEQ Project Manager will prepare the
     appropriate environmental document (Categorical Exclusion, Finding of No Significant
     Impact/Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Statement, etc.) for the project
     in accordance with MDEQ’s “FY 2015 Operating Procedure for Environmental Review.”
     Note that this is a deviation from Appendix B of the existing WPCRLF Regulations, and
     any necessary variances will be provided through each loan agreement in accordance
     with the variance procedures in the Regulations.

E.   Fiscal Sustainability Plan {WRRDA Section 5003(2)}:

     All WPCRLF loan recipients must now certify that they have developed and implemented a
     Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) that includes:

     1.     An inventory of critical assets that are a part of the treatment works;
     2.     An evaluation of the condition and performance of inventoried assets or asset groupings;
     3.     A certification that the recipient has evaluated and will be implementing water and
            energy conservation efforts as part of the plan; and
     4.     A plan for maintaining, repairing, and, as necessary, replacing the treatment works and a
            plan for funding such activities.

     A Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) Certification must be submitted with the loan
     application package indicating that the Loan Recipient has either 1) already developed
     and implemented an FSP or 2) will do so by the date established in the loan agreement which
     represents 90% of construction completion. If the latter, a corresponding follow-up FSP
     Certification will be required by that same 90% construction completion date.


                                              491
F.   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)/Governmental Accounting Standards
     Board (GASB) {WRRDA Section 5002}:

     All WPCRLF loan recipients are now required to maintain project accounts according to
     Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) as issued by the Governmental
     Accounting Standards Board (GASB), including standards relating to the reporting of
     infrastructure assets. A corresponding GAAP Certification must be submitted with the
     loan application.

     The most recent applicable standard is GASB Statement No. 34 (GASB 34), issued in
     June 1999, which details governmental reporting requirements including standards for
     reporting of infrastructure assets. Further details on the requirements, as well as the full
     text of GASB 34, can be obtained through the GASB.

G.   Loan Term/Useful Life {WRRDA Section 5003(2)}:

     The maximum CWSRF loan term allowed by federal law was changed from twenty years
     to the lesser of thirty years and the “projected useful life of the project.” The current
     WPCRLF loan terms and interest rates available as a result of implementation of this new
     provision are outlined in Part 1, Section II.c., j., and k. of this Intended Use Plan.

     Regarding the “useful life” limitation, the Department has confirmed with EPA that, in
     view of the WPCRLF loan award history, the following approach is acceptable. For
     treatment works projects funded with WPCRLF loans with repayment terms of 20 years
     or less, the useful life will be considered to be at least 20 years, with no additional
     documentation or project-specific determination required. For treatment works projects
     to be funded with WPCRLF loans with repayment terms greater than 20 years, and for
     any non-treatment works projects, additional documentation supporting the project useful
     life may be required, and a project-specific useful life determination will be made and
     included in the project files. Each applicable project’s Loan Application File will be
     documented with a copy of a corresponding useful life determination memo, which
     confirms this approach.

H.   Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (Cross-
     Cutter):

     All WPCRLF loan recipients are now required to comply with the federal “Uniform Act.”
     The implementing regulations can be found at 49CFR24.101 through 24.105. To confirm
     compliance, the Loan Recipient and Title Counsel must submit the “Limited Site
     Certificates for Projects Funded Beginning FY 2015” and “Clear Site Certificates for
     Projects Funded Beginning FY 2015” by the date(s) specified in the loan agreement.

I.   Executive Order 12549-Debarment and Suspension (Cross-Cutter):

     In order to ensure compliance with this executive order, all WPCRLF-funded
     construction contracts must include MDEQ’s “Supplementary Information for Bidders”
     dated December 11, 2015, verbatim.


                                             492
J.   Executive Order 11246-Equal Employment Opportunity (Cross-Cutter):

     In order to ensure compliance with this executive order, all WPCRLF-funded
     construction contracts must include MDEQ’s “Supplementary Information for Bidders”
     dated December 11, 2015, verbatim.

K.   Davis Bacon Prevailing Wage Rates (WRRDA Section 5002)

     The Davis Bacon (DB) requirements [as referenced in Section 513 of the Federal Water
     Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1372)] now apply to all treatment works projects
     constructed in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds. These are effectively the same
     requirements applied to FY-2012 through FY-2015 WPCRLF projects based on EPA’s
     interpretation of the FY-2012 CWSRF appropriations language. WRRDA reaffirmed
     that the DB requirements are applicable for all future WPCRLF projects. Specific
     details regarding compliance with these requirements are outlined in MDEQ’s
     “Supplemental General Condition” dated August 13, 2013, which must be included in
     all WPCRLF-funded construction contracts.

L.   American Iron and Steel (WRRDA Section 5004):

     The American Iron and Steel (AIS) requirement now applies to all contracts associated
     with projects funded in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds. This is effectively the
     same requirement applied to FY-2014 WPCRLF projects by the Consolidated
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (P.L. 113-76). WRRDA made this AIS requirement
     applicable for all future WPCRLF projects. For details on what “Iron and Steel”
     products are covered by this requirement, see the AIS guidance memorandum entitled
     “Implementation of American Iron and Steel provisions of P.L. 113-76, Consolidated
     Appropriations Act, 2014” issued by EPA Headquarters on March 20, 2014. The
     information provided therein should be helpful to Loan Recipients and Consultants in
     crafting bidding documents and ensuring compliance for a given project. Also, specific
     details regarding compliance with this requirement are provided in MDEQ’s “Guidance
     For Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Projects Funded Beginning Federal
     FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and After).”

M.   Federal Procurement for Engineering Services (WRRDA Section 5002):

     All WPCRLF-funded contracts for program management, construction management,
     feasibility studies, preliminary engineering, design, engineering, surveying, mapping, or
     architectural related services must now be negotiated in the same manner as a contract
     for architectural and engineering services is negotiated under 40 U.S.C. 1101 et seq. A
     corresponding Procurement Certification must be submitted with the loan application.

N.   Cost and Effectiveness (WRRDA Section 5002):

     All loan recipients must now certify, that they:

     1.    have studied and evaluated the cost and effectiveness of the processes, materials,
           techniques, and technologies for carrying out the proposed project or activity for
           which assistance is sought under this title; and
                                           493
     2.    have selected, to the maximum extent practicable, a project or activity that
           maximizes the potential for efficient water use, reuse, recapture, and conservation,
           and energy conservation, taking into account:
           (i) the cost of constructing the project or activity;
           (ii) the cost of operating and maintaining the project or activity over the life of the
                project or activity; and
           (iii) the cost of replacing the project or activity

     The Cost and Effectiveness Certification must be submitted with the facilities plan in order
     for the plan to be considered “complete.”

O.   Additional Subsidy Funding/Affordability Criteria (WRRDA Section 5003):

     Similar to the additional subsidy provision in the FY-2010 through FY-2014 CWSRF
     appropriations language, WRRDA included a provision allowing the states to provide a
     limited amount of “additional subsidization” each FY, but with more limitations than were
     included in prior years’ appropriations language.

     This provision also requires the establishment of “affordability criteria” to be used in
     determining additional subsidy eligibility; and, stipulates that the criteria must be “based on
     income and unemployment data, population trends, and other data determined relevant
     by the State, including whether the project or activity is to be carried out in an
     economically distressed area, as described in section 301 of the Public Works and
     Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3161).” Therefore, using these
     stipulations to build on the existing WPCRLF “Small/Low Income Community” subsidy
     criteria, MDEQ currently will use the following as the affordability criteria for
     subsidization made available through FY-2015 and subsequent capitalization grants:
     1) The community must be a “Small/Low Income Community” with a population of
        4,000 or less, and Median Household Income (MHI) of $40,000 or less.
     2) If the community’s population is confirmed to have been declining for the last three
        consecutive years, it will receive one “subsidy point.”
     3) If the community’s unemployment rate is confirmed to have been increasing for the
        last three consecutive years, it will receive one “subsidy point.”
     4) If the project is confirmed to be in an economically distressed area (per Section 301
        of 42 USC 3161), it will receive one “subsidy point.”
     5) The qualifying projects will be ranked for subsidization first based on highest to
        lowest number of “subsidy points,” and then from lowest to highest MHI.

     Subsidy funding details and conditions are further described in Section IV.D.1.


P.   Signage (Non-statutory EPA Mandate):

     EPA has begun requiring (as a condition of receiving future capitalization grants) that
     WPCRLF-funded projects include signage which details EPA’s involvement in the project.
     Accordingly, Loan Recipient must now ensure that a project-specific EPA Public
     Awareness Notification (provided by MDEQ) is displayed on a bulletin board/sign in a
     prominent location at the project site for the duration of the contract. The Notification

                                             494
should also be displayed in other prominent locations (Loan Recipient’s office, website,
courthouse, library, etc.) accessible to the public. Specific details regarding this
requirement are outlined in MDEQ’s “Supplementary Information for Bidders” dated
December 11, 2015, which must be included in all WPCRLF-funded construction
contracts.




                                     495
                                                  Appendix A

                                  State of Mississippi WPCRLF Program
                                   FFY 2020 Assumed Available Funds

The following breakdown of funds is based on the FY'20 Congressional appropriation for the National Title VI
SRF Program.

FFY 2020 National Title VI SRF Appropriation Less the Rescission                               $1,638,826,000.00
Mississippi Title VI SRF Allotment Less the Rescission                                            $14,462,000.00
Title VI SRF 604(b) Reserve (1% of allotment or $100,000 minimum)                        (-)       ($145,000.00)
FFY'20 Title VI SRF Capitalization Grant                                                 (=)      $14,317,000.00
State Match Required (20% of Title VI SRF Cap Grant)                                     (+)       $2,863,400.00
FFY'20 Cap Grant & State Match Funds                                                     (=)      $17,180,400.00
FFY'20 SRF Administrative Reserve (4% of Cap Grant)                                      (-)       ($572,680.00)
FFY'20 SRF Funds (Cap Grant + Match - Admin)                                             (=)      $16,607,720.00
FFY'20 Pmt #2 (Cap Grant + Match - Admin) (not yet available) *                          (-)    ($16,383,062.00)
Total Cap Grant and Match Funds Available in FFY'20                                      (=)         $224,658.00
FFY'19 Balance Brought Forward Less Excess Match (already in above total)**              (+)    $104,812,595.81
Interest Earned - Received 10/01/19 thru 01/31/20                                        (+)       $1,067,232.29
Anticipated Interest Earnings 02/01/20 thru 09/30/20                                     (+)               $0.00
SRF Loan Repayments Received 10/01/19 thru 01/31/20                                      (+)      $11,324,460.03
Anticipated Loan Repayments 02/01/20 thru 09/30/20                                       (+)      $23,205,685.50
Bond Debt Service (for State Match) Paid 10/01/19 thru 01/31/20                          (-)       ($810,111.78)
Anticipated Bond Debt Service (for State Match) 02/01/20 thru 09/30/20 ***               (-)       ($534,091.09)
Base Loan Decreases Processed 10/01/19 thru 03/10/20                                     (+)       $6,013,759.05
Subsidy Loan Decreases Processed 10/01/19 thru 03/10/20                                  (+)               $0.00
Base Loan Decreases Anticipated                                                          (+)               $0.00
Subsidy Loan Decreases Anticipated                                                       (+)               $0.00
Loan Increase Reserve                                                                    (-)     ($5,000,000.00)
Subsidy Loan Increase Reserve                                                            (-)       ($600,000.00)
Base Loan Increases Processed 10/01/19 thru 03/10/20                                     (-)       ($497,139.20)
Subsidy Loan Increases Processed 10/01/19 thru 03/10/20                                  (-)       ($122,827.50)
Anticipated Base Loan Increases                                                          (-)               $0.00
Anticipated Subsidy Loan Increases                                                       (-)               $0.00
Total Funds Available for FFY’20 Loan Awards                                             (=)    $139,084,221.11
Funds Needed for Priority List Projects                                                  (-)    ($93,000,000.00)
Funds Needed for Planning List Projects Anticipated to Proceed                           (-)               $0.00
Excess Funds Available for New Projects In FFY'20                                        (=)      $46,084,221.11


*   FFY'20: Cap Grant Pmt #2 + Match - Admin = Total ($14,129,785 + $2,825,957 - $572,680 = $16,383,062)
** $104,850,038.81 - $37,443.00 = $104,812,595.81
*** Interest for anticipated bond payments are not included for bonds with variable rates.




                                                        496
                                                                                                                      September 30, 2019
                                                                                                                       EOY Report 2019




                                             State of Mississippi WPCRLF Program
                                                  FFY 2019 End of Year Report

The following breakdown of funds is based on the FY'19 Congressional appropriation for the National Title VI
SRF Program.

FFY 2019 National Title VI SRF Appropriation Less the Rescission                                                 $1,638,826,000.00
Mississippi Title VI SRF Allotment                                                                                  $14,460,000.00
Title VI SRF 604(b) Reserve (1% of allotment or $100,000 minimum)                                          (-)        -$145,000.00
Total FFY’19 Title VI SRF Capitalization Grant                                                             (=)      $14,315,000.00
Total State Match Required (20% of Total Title VI SRF Cap Grant)                                           (+)       $2,863,000.00
Total FY'19 Cap Grant & State Match Funds                                                                  (=)      $17,178,000.00
FFY’19 SRF Administrative Reserve (4% of Cap Grant)                                                        (-)        -$572,600.00
FFY’19 Assumed SRF Funds (Cap Grant + Match - Admin)                                                       (=)      $16,605,400.00
FFY'18 Pmt #1 Cap Grant + State Match - Admin *                                                            (+)      $16,774,760.00
FFY'17 Pmt #2 Cap Grant + State Match **                                                                   (+)      $12,884,142.00
Excess State Match Available To Match FFY'20 Cap Grant                                                     (+)          $37,443.00
Total Cap Grant/Match Funds Available In FFY'19                                                            (=)      $46,301,745.00
Balance Brought Forward from FFY’18                                                                        (+)      $33,916,661.46
Interest Earned - Received 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                          (+)       $2,167,279.23
SRF Loan Repayments Received 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                        (+)      $34,106,329.93
State Match Bond Debt Service Paid 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                  (-)        -$904,475.61
Base Loan Decreases Processed 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                       (+)       $7,750,611.00
Subsidy Loan Decreases Processed 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                    (+)               $0.00
Loan Increase Reserve                                                                                      (-)               $0.00
Subsidy Loan Increase Reserve                                                                              (-)               $0.00
Base Loan Increases Processed 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                       (-)      -$1,615,652.00
Subsidy Loan Increases Processed 10/01/18 thru 09/30/19                                                    (-)               $0.00
Total Funds Available for FFY’19 Loan Awards                                                               (=)     $121,722,499.01
Loans Awarded During FFY'19                                                                                (-)     -$16,872,460.20
FFY'19 Ending Balance                                                                                      (=)     $104,850,038.81


 *   FY'18: Cap Grant Pmt #1 + Match - Admin = Total ($14,461,000 + $2,892,200 - $578,440 = $16,774,760)
 ** FY’17: Cap Grant Pmt #2 + Match = Total ($10,736,785 + $2,147,357 = $12,884,142)




                                                                              497
                                                     Appendix A (Cont.)
                           WATER POLLUTION CONTROL (CLEAN WATER) REVOLVING LOAN FUND PROGRAM
                                 ASSUMED AVAILABLE STATE MATCH FUNDS (FY-13 Through FY-19)

 [The State Match History From Program Inception (FY-89) Through FY-12 Is Available on the MDEQ Webpage at www.mdeq.ms.gov. Under “For
   Government,” follow the links for “Grants, Loans, Trust Funds” then “Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Fund Loan Program.”]

            Cap. Grant                Cap. Grant                                Interest
SRF          Payment                   Payment        Total Required          Earnings of      Deposit       Deposits From
Cap.         Schedule                  Schedule      20% State Match          State Match   From WPA**          State ***
Grant         Quarter                  Amount            Deposit                 Fund        Repayments       Appropriations
             1Q FY-14          (87)
FY-13                                 $ 3,596,910      *$     719,382             $0           N/A             $    719,382
            (No. 1 of 3)
             1Q FY-15          (88)
FY-13                                 $ 5,050,305      *$ 1,010,061               $0           N/A             $ 1,010,061
            (No. 2 of 3)
             4Q FY-15          (89)
FY-13                                 $ 3,380,785      *$     676,157             $0           N/A             $    676,157
            (No. 3 of 3)

Total                             $ 12,028,000         $    2,405,600             $0           N/A             $ 2,405,600

            Cap. Grant                Cap. Grant                                Interest
SRF          Payment                   Payment        Total Required          Earnings on      Deposit       Deposits From
Cap.         Schedule                  Schedule      20% State Match          State Match   From WPA**          State ***
Grant         Quarter                  Amount            Deposit                 Fund        Repayments       Appropriations
             4Q FY-15          (90)
FY-14                                 $   827,005     *$    165,401               $0           N/A              $   165,401
            (No. 1 of 3)
             3Q FY-16          (91)
FY-14                                 $   717,210     *$     143,442              $0           N/A              $   143,442
            (No. 2 of 3)
             4Q FY-16          (92)
FY-14                                 $ 11,087,785     $ 2,217,557                $0           N/A              $ 2,217,557
            (No. 3 of 3)

Total                                  $12,632,000     $ 2,526,400                $0           N/A              $ 2,526,400




                                                                        499
                                                 Appendix A (Cont.)
                       WATER POLLUTION CONTROL (CLEAN WATER) REVOLVING LOAN FUND PROGRAM
                                      ASSUMED AVAILABLE STATE MATCH FUNDS
        Cap. Grant            Cap. Grant                                   Interest
SRF      Payment               Payment            Total Required         Earnings on      Deposit    Deposits From
Cap.     Schedule              Schedule          20% State Match         State Match   From WPA**       State ***
Grant     Quarter              Amount                Deposit                Fund        Repayments    Appropriations
         4Q FY-16          (93)
FY-15                             $   812,215     *$   162,443               $0           N/A           $   162,443
        (No. 1 of 2)
         4Q FY-17          (94)
FY-15                             $ 11,754,785     $ 2,350,957               $0           N/A           $ 2,350,957
        (No. 2 of 2)

Total                         $ 12,567,000         $ 2,513,400               $0           N/A           $ 2,513,400

        Cap. Grant            Cap. Grant                                   Interest
SRF      Payment               Payment            Total Required         Earnings on      Deposit    Deposits From
Cap.     Schedule              Schedule          20% State Match         State Match   From WPA**       State ***
Grant     Quarter              Amount                Deposit                Fund        Repayments    Appropriations
         4Q FY-18          (95)
FY-16                             $ 12,037,000    *$ 2,407,400               $0           N/A           $ 2,407,400
        (No. 1 of 1)

Total                         $ 12,307,000         $ 2,407,400               $0           N/A           $ 2,407,400

        Cap. Grant            Cap. Grant                                   Interest
SRF      Payment               Payment            Total Required         Earnings on      Deposit    Deposits From
Cap.     Schedule              Schedule          20% State Match         State Match   From WPA**       State ***
Grant     Quarter              Amount                Deposit                Fund        Repayments    Appropriations
         3Q FY-19          (96)
FY-17                             $ 1,208,215     *$   241,643               $0           N/A           $   241,643
        (No. 1 of 2)
         4Q FY-19          (97)
FY-17                             $ 10,736,785    *$ 2,147,357               $0           N/A           $ 2,147,357
        (No. 2 of 2)

Total                         $ 11,945,000         $ 2,389,000               $0           N/A           $ 2,389,000


                                                                   500
                Cap. Grant             Cap. Grant                                      Interest
  SRF            Payment                Payment            Total Required            Earnings on           Deposit         Deposits From
  Cap.           Schedule               Schedule          20% State Match            State Match        From WPA**            State ***
  Grant           Quarter               Amount                Deposit                   Fund             Repayments         Appropriations

  FY-18          1Q FY-20           (98)
                                           $ 14,461,000     *$ 2,892,200                 $0                  N/A               $ 2,892,200
                (No. 1 of 1)

  Total                                $ 14,461,000         $ 2,892,200                  $0                  N/A               $ 2,892,200

                Cap. Grant             Cap. Grant                                      Interest
  SRF            Payment                Payment            Total Required            Earnings on           Deposit         Deposits From
  Cap.           Schedule               Schedule          20% State Match            State Match        From WPA**            State ***
  Grant           Quarter               Amount                Deposit                   Fund             Repayments         Appropriations

  FY-19          1Q FY-20           (99)
                                           $ 14,315,000     *$ 2,863,000                 $0                  N/A               $ 2,863,000
                (No. 1 of 1)

  Total                                $ 14,315,000         $ 2,863,000                  $0                  N/A               $ 2,863,000

                Cap. Grant             Cap. Grant                                      Interest
  SRF            Payment                Payment            Total Required            Earnings on           Deposit         Deposits From
  Cap.           Schedule               Schedule          20% State Match            State Match        From WPA**            State ***
  Grant           Quarter               Amount                Deposit                   Fund             Repayments         Appropriations
                 4Q FY-20           (100)
  FY-20                                     $   187,215     *$    37,443                 $0                  N/A               $     37,443
                (No. 1 of 2)
                 1Q FY-21          (101)
  FY-20                                    $ 14,129,785     $ 2,825,957                  $0                  N/A               $ 2,825,957
                (No. 2 of 2)

  Total                                    $ 14,317,000     $ 2,863,400                  $0                  N/A               $ 2,863,400


 *=    Deposits of this amount or greater were actually made as of 10/24/19.

** =   The Water Pollution Abatement Loan Program, which was entirely state funded. Repayments from this loan program are appropriated by the State
       Legislature each Legislative Session for use as state matching funds for the WPCRLF program.

***=   During the spring 2013 legislative session, the Legislature provided bonding authority for $1,000,000 in general obligation bonds to be used for state match
       funds. These bonds were sold on December 3, 2013, and the net bond proceeds of $1,000,000 were deposited into the WPCRLF in the 1st quarter of FFY-
       14. These bond proceeds were used to match the remainder of the FY-12 capitalization grant and provide$719,382 in match money for the FY-13,

                                                                               501
       capitalization grant. During the Spring 2014 legislative session, the Legislature provided a direct appropriation of $1,000,000 to be used for state match
       funds. These appropriated funds were used to match an additional $5,000,000 of the FY-13 capitalization grant. During the Spring 2015 legislative session,
       the Legislature provided a direct appropriation of $1,000,000 to be used for state match funds. However, due to a State Capital Expense Fund shortfall,
       $80,583 of that amount was rescinded, and another $77,859 may be rescinded if an upcoming ballot initiative (Initiative 42/MAEP) passes. Therefore, only
       $841,558 of the $1,000,000 appropriation can currently be counted as match. These appropriated funds are being used to match the remaining $3,380,785 of
       the FY-13 capitalization grant, and $827,005 of the FY-14 capitalization grant. The ballot initiative did not pass, and the Legislature restored $65,583 of the
       rescission in the 3rd Quarter of FY-16, resulting in an additional $143,442 available for match. During the Spring 2016 legislative session, the Legislature
       provided a direct appropriation of $2,380,000 to be used for state match funds, which were used to match the remainder of the FY-14 capitalization grant,
       and a portion or the FY-15 capitalization grant. During the Spring 2018 Regular Legislative session, the Legislature provided bonding authority for
       $5,000,000 in general obligation bonds to be used for state match funds. These bond proceeds will be used to match the remainder of the FY-15
       capitalization grant and the entire FY-16 capitalization grant, and to provide $241,643 in match money for the FY-17 capitalization grant. During the Spring
       2019 Regular Legislative session, the Legislature provided bonding authority for $7,940,000 in general obligation bonds to be used for state match funds.
       These bond proceeds will be used to match the remainder of the FY-17 capitalization grant, the entire FY-18 capitalization grant, the entire FY-19
       capitalization grant, and to provide $37,443 in match money for the FY-20 capitalization grant. During the Spring 2020 Regular Legislative session, the
       Legislature provided bonding authority for $2,830,000 in general obligation bonds to be used for state match funds. These bond proceeds will be used to
       match the remainder of the FY-20 capitalization grant.
(87)
       The FY-2013 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $719,382 in proceeds from the sale of $1,000,000 in general obligation bonds authorized
       by the State Legislature during the Spring 2013 Legislative session.
(88)
       The FY-2013 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with the remaining $10,062 in proceeds from the sale of $1,000,000 in general obligation
       bonds authorized by the State Legislature during the Spring 2013 Legislative session, and with $1,000,000 of direct appropriation authorized by the State
       Legislature during the Spring 2014 Legislative session.
(89)
       The remainder of the FY-2013 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $676,157 of the $1,000,000 of direct appropriation authorized by the
       State Legislature during the Spring 2015 Legislative session.
(90)
       The FY-2014 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with the $165,401 of the $1,000,000 direct appropriation authorized by the State Legislature
       during the Spring 2015 Legislative session. (Note, due to a “budget shortfall” in the State Capital Expense Fund, $80,583 of that appropriation was not
       received. Also, there is a potential for that appropriation to be reduced by another $77,859 if an upcoming ballot initiative (Initiative 42/MAEP) passes.
       Therefore, the resulting total of $158,442 has been deducted from the 2015 $1,000,000 appropriation, and only $841,558 has currently been counted as
       match.)
(91)
       The FY-2014 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with the $143,442 of the $1,000,000 direct appropriation authorized by the State Legislature
       during the Spring 2015 Legislative session. (Note, $77,859 is related to the ballot initiation described above, which did not pass, and the Legislature restored
       $65,583 of the rescission in the 3rd Quarter of FY-16.)
(92)
       The remainder of the FY-2014 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,217,557 of the $2,380,000 of direct appropriation authorized by the
       State Legislature during the Spring 2015 Legislative session.



                                                                                 502
(93)
        The FY-2015 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with the remaining $162,443 of the $2,380,000 direct appropriation authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2015 Legislative session.
(94)
        The remainder of the FY-2015 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,350,957 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds
        authorized by the State Legislature during the Spring 2018 Legislative session.
(95)
        The FY-2016 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,407,400 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by
        the State Legislature during the Spring 2018 Legislative session.
(96)
        The FY-2017 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $241,643 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2018 Legislative session.
(97)
        The remainder of the FY-2017 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,147,357 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds
        authorized by the State Legislature during the Spring 2019 Legislative session.
(98)
        The FY-2018 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,892,200 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2019 Legislative session.
(99)
        The FY-2019 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,863,000 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2019 Legislative session.
(100)
        The FY-2020 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $37,443 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2019 Legislative session.
(101)
        The FY-2020 Federal payment schedule $ that can be matched with $2,825,957 in proceeds from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the State
        Legislature during the Spring 2020 Legislative session.




                                                                              503
                                                                                Appendix B

                                                  Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Loan Fund Program
                                                               Projected Schedule of Outlays ($ Millions)

                           1Q          2Q            3Q           4Q            1Q              2Q            3Q            4Q           1Q           2Q
                          FY-21       FY-21         FY-21        FY-21         FY-22           FY-22         FY-22         FY-22        FY-23        FY-23        Totals
    Projects
    DCRUA                    $0          $0            $0           $0        $650,000       $1,400,000    $1,400,000    $1,400,000     $650,000       $0         $5,500,000
    WJCUD                    $0       $250,000      $400,000     $400,000     $400,000        $400,000      $400,000      $250,000         $0          $0         $2,500,000
    Town of Pelahatchie      $0       $500,000     $1,000,000   $1,000,000    $500,000           $0            $0            $0            $0          $0         $3,000,000
    DCRUA                    $0          $0            $0           $0       $1,300,000      $3,400,000    $3,400,000    $3,400,000    $1,300,000      $0        $12,800,000
    WJCUD                 $900,000   $1,200,000    $1,200,000   $1,200,000   $1,200,000      $1,200,000     $900,000         $0            $0          $0         $7,800,000
    HCUA                     $0          $0            $0           $0           $0           $500,000     $1,000,000    $1,000,000    $1,000,000   $500,000      $4,000,000
    HCUA                     $0          $0            $0           $0           $0           $500,000     $1,000,000    $1,000,000    $1,000,000   $500,000      $4,000,000
    City of Cleveland        $0          $0            $0           $0       $1,000,000      $2,900,000    $2,900,000    $2,900,000    $1,000,000      $0        $10,700,000
    City of Greenville       $0          $0        $1,450,000   $3,900,000   $3,900,000      $3,900,000    $1,450,000        $0            $0          $0        $14,600,000
    DCRUA                    $0          $0            $0           $0        $550,000       $1,400,000    $1,400,000    $1,400,000     $550,000       $0         $5,300,000
    DCRUA                    $0          $0            $0           $0        $600,000       $1,500,000    $1,500,000    $1,500,000     $600,000       $0         $5,700,000
    DCRUA                    $0          $0            $0           $0       $1,250,000      $2,500,000    $2,500,000    $2,500,000    $1,250,000      $0        $10,000,000
    Town of Tutwiler         $0          $0         $650,000    $1,800,000   $1,800,000      $1,800,000     $650,000         $0            $0          $0         $6,700,000
    Program Admin.          $-0-        $-0-          $-0-         $-0-         $-0-            $-0-          $-0-          $-0-          $-0-         $-0-        $-0-

    Total                 $900,000   $1,950,000    $4,700,000   $8,300,000   $13,150,000     $21,400,000   $18,500,000   $15,350,000   $7,350,000   $1,000,000   $92,600,000
    FY-18 State Match
                          $147,000   $318,499      $767,665     $994,316         $0              $0            $0            $0           $0           $0         $2,227,480
    (2.41%)
    Federal FY-18
                          $753,000   $1,631,501    $3,932,335   $4,820,566       $0              $0            $0            $0           $0           $0        $11,137,402
    Cap Grant (12.03%)
    FY-19 State Match
                            $0          $0            $0        $361,348     $2,147,829       $353,823         $0            $0           $0           $0         $2,863,000
    (3.09%)
    Federal FY-19
                            $0          $0            $0        $2,123,770   $11,002,171     $1,189,059        $0            $0           $0           $0        $14,315,000
    Cap Grant (15.46%)
    FY-20 State Match
                            $0          $0            $0           $0            $0          $2,863,400        $0            $0           $0           $0         $2,863,400
    (3.09%)
    Federal FY-20
                            $0          $0            $0           $0            $0          $14,317,000       $0            $0           $0           $0        $14,317,000
    Cap Grant (15.46%)
    $ Other* (48.46%)       $0          $0            $0           $0            $0          $2,676,718    $18,500,000   $15,350,000   $7,350,000   $1,000,000   $44,876,718


*           Other funds include state match, repayments, interest earnings, and net loan amendments.




                                                                                       504
This Page Intentionally Left Blank




               505
                                                           ADOPTED
                                                          November 2020




                           Mississippi

                               2020

                         List of Impaired

                          Water Bodies




      Title 11: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality
           Part 6: Wastewater Pollution Control Regulations
Part 6, Chapter 9: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality,
   Mississippi 2020 Section 303(d) List of Impaired Water Bodies

                     FINAL LIST Version 2.0

                          Prepared by
       MISSISSIPPI DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
   SURFACE WATER DIVISION OF THE OFFICE OF POLLUTION CONTROL




  MDEQ ■ PO Box 2261 ■ Jackson MS 39225-2261 ■ (601) 961-5171




                               2
Title 11: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality

Part 6: Wastewater Pollution Control Regulations

Part 6, Chapter 9: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality
Mississippi 2020 Section 303(d) List of Impaired Water Bodies


TABLE OF CONTENTS
RULE 9.1 INTRODUCTION                                                                 Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.2 REGULATORY REQUIREMENT                                                       Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.3 ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY                                                       Error! Bookmark not defined.
A. Consolidated Assessment Listing Methodology (CALM)                                 Error! Bookmark not defined.
B. Designated Uses                                                                    Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 1 Water Body Classification ........................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
C. Water Quality Standards                                                            Error! Bookmark not defined.
D. Assessment Categories                                                              Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 2 Assessment Categories .............................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Assessment Categories...........................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Definitions of Categories .......................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
E. Monitoring Data                                                                    Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.4 FISH AND SHELLFISH CONSUMPTION ADVISORIES AND IMPAIRED
WATERS                                                                                Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.5 LAYOUT OF THE TABLES                                                         Error! Bookmark not defined.
A. Stream Listings                                                                    Error! Bookmark not defined.
B. Pollutants Included                                                                Error! Bookmark not defined.
C. Pollutant Source                                                                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
D. Water Body Identification Numbers                                                  Error! Bookmark not defined.
E. Basin Maps                                                                         Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.6 CHANGES MADE FOR 2020                                                        Error! Bookmark not defined.
A. Pollutant Change                                                                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 3. Pollutant Change ......................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
B. Changes to the List this Cycle (TMDL Complete, Delistings) Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 4. Delistings this Cycle ................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
C. Alternative Action Plans (Category 5 alt, Category 4B, Category 4C) Error! Bookmark not
defined.
     Table 5. Alternative Action Plans (5-Alt, 4C) .......................Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 6. Alternative Action Plans (4B)..................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
D. New Listings (Category 5)                                                          Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 7. New Additions .........................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
E. TMDL Successes (Category 4a to Category 2)                                         Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 8. TMDL Successes .....................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
RULE 9.7 TMDLs SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS                                               Error! Bookmark not
defined.
     Table 9 TMDLs Scheduled for 2020 and 2021 .....................Error! Bookmark not defined.


                                                        2
RULE 9.8 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS Error! Bookmark not
defined.
RULE 9.9 IMPAIRED WATERS LISTING                                                    Error! Bookmark not defined.
     Table 10 Impaired Waters ......................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
REFERENCES                                                                          Error! Bookmark not defined.
APPENDIX A. ATLAS                                                                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
APPENDIX B. ATLAS OF TMDL SUCCESSES                                                 Error! Bookmark not defined.




                                                       3
4
RULE 9.1 INTRODUCTION
Mississippi’s 2020 Section 303(d) List of Impaired Water Bodies fulfills the state's obligation
with respect to §303(d) of the Federal Clean Water Act to develop a listing of the state’s
impaired waters. MDEQ provides two reports, this §303(d) list and a §305(b) report. These are
not physically integrated, but the lists are meant to have a one-to-one relationship in that all of
the water body segments found in the §305(b) report listed in category 5 are also listed in this
document in Table 10 below. These basins are shown on the map on page 4.

A.   Big Black River Basin
B.   Coastal Streams Basin
C.   North Independent Streams Basin
D.   Pascagoula River Basin
E.   Pearl River Basin
F.   South Independent Streams and Lower Mississippi River Basins
G.   Tennessee River Basin
H.   Tombigbee River Basin
I.   Yazoo River and Upper Mississippi River Basins

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


RULE 9.2 REGULATORY REQUIREMENT
Section 303(d) of the Clean Water Act and the implementing federal regulations at 40 C.F.R.
§130.7 require the state to identify those waters within its jurisdiction for which effluent
limitations are not sufficient to implement one or more applicable water quality standards and for
which TMDLs are not yet completed. The state is to establish a priority ranking for such waters,
taking into account the severity of the pollution and the designated uses to be made of such
waters.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


RULE 9.3 ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY

A. Consolidated Assessment Listing Methodology (CALM)

All data used to make formal assessments of the quality of the state’s waters, regardless of its
source, are evaluated in keeping with the requirements and guidelines in the state’s Mississippi
CALM [Consolidated Assessment Listing Methodology] for 2020, [CALM] (MDEQ, 2020). The
2020 CALM can be found online at:
https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/field-services/water-quality-assessment/
                                                5
Monitoring data and information that may be considered when assessing state waters could
include chemical, physical, bacteriological, toxicological, and/or biological (e.g.,
macroinvertebrate, fish, and algal community measurements) data. In addition to using MDEQ-
generated data, MDEQ solicits and considers all readily available data and information within
the assessment window collected by other Federal, State, local agencies/organizations, and the
public. Data generated by MDEQ, other agencies, and individuals should be of the quality
necessary to make credible and realistic assessment decisions on the condition of the state’s
waters. Whenever possible, data needs to be of the highest quality and developed using
sampling and analytical protocols and standard operating procedures recognized by state and
EPA quality assurance program plans. This data solicitation effort is facilitated through
MDEQ’s Basin Management Approach.


B. Designated Uses

The water quality assessment process begins with the collection and compilation of the available
data followed by the analysis of water quality data and information for the purpose of
determining the quality of the state’s surface water resources. Surface waters in Mississippi are
used for a number of purposes including drinking water supply, shellfish harvesting, recreation,
fishing, and aquatic life use support (ALUS). Water bodies are designated and assigned various
use classifications by MDEQ in the state’s Water Quality Standards (11 Miss. Admin. Code Pt.
6, Ch. 2) {WQS}. This designation is made based on the use(s) of the water body as identified
by the public and other entities. The use classifications and associated USEPA designated uses
for water quality assessment purposes recognized by the State of Mississippi are given in Table
1.


Table 1 Water Body Classification
Water Body Classification                          USEPA Associated Designated Use
Public Water Supply                                Drinking Water Supply
Recreation                                         Contact Recreation
Fish and Wildlife                                  Aquatic Life Use, Fish Consumption,
                                                   Secondary Contact Recreation
Shellfish Harvesting                               Shellfish Consumption




                                               6
C. Water Quality Standards

Most of Mississippi’s waters are classified as Fish and Wildlife. For each of the water body
classifications listed above, there are various water quality criteria that apply to those water body
uses. These standards are used in the assessment process. A water body (part or all of a stream,
river, lake, estuary or coastline) should support one or more of these uses. Mississippi’s WQS
specify the appropriate levels for which various water quality parameters or indicators support a
water body’s designated use(s). Each use assessed for a water body is determined to be either
“Attaining” or “Not Attaining” in accordance with the applicable water quality standards and
EPA guidelines for assessments pursuant to §305(b). For the 2020 assessments, all monitoring
data were collected prior to the approval of the current Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate,
Interstate, and Coastal Waters. The applicable criteria was approved in 2016. Mississippi's
WQS may be found here:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/surface-water/watershed-management/water-quality-standards/


D. Assessment Categories

After assessing attainment status of the water body’s designated use(s), each water body is
assigned to an assessment unit that defines the length of the reach assessed and is placed into one
of five assessment categories as per EPA guidance. These categories are summarized in Table 2.




                                                 7
Table 2 Assessment Categories

Assessment Categories        Definitions of Categories
Category 1                   All uses associated with the Assessment Unit have a use attainment
                             status of “Fully Supporting”
Category 2                   All uses associated with the Assessment Unit that have been
                             assessed are “Fully Supporting” but there is insufficient data to
                             determine if remaining designated uses are met
Category 3                   Insufficient data to determine whether any designated uses are met
Category 4                   More specific categories of 4A, 4B, and 4C are required
4A                           TMDL has been completed
4B                           Other required control measures will result in
                             attainment of WQS
4C                           Impairment or threat not caused by a pollutant
Category 5                   Available data indicate that at least one designated use is not being
                             supported and a TMDL is needed

5-alt                        Available data indicate that at least one designated use is not being
                             supported, but an alternative restoration approach is being
                             implement rather than development of a TMDL.



The §303(d) list includes streams that are impaired that do not have completed Total Maximum
Daily Loads (TMDLs). Once the TMDL is completed, but prior to the stream being restored,
MDEQ modifies the assessment category of the stream. An impaired stream without a TMDL is
assessed in category 5. A stream with a TMDL, but still impaired, is assessed in category 4A.
The §303(d) lists all of the category 5 waters. Completed TMDLs may be found on the TMDL
website at:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/wp-content/uploads/TMDLs/

For a listing of all assessed waters and their assigned category, please see the §305(b) Water
Quality Assessment Report listed below:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/field-services/water-quality-assessment/


E. Monitoring Data

Assessments for 2020 are based on current site-specific monitoring data believed to accurately
portray existing water quality conditions. A water body is considered monitored if sufficient (in
quantity, quality, and frequency) physical, chemical, biological, bacteriological, and/or fish
tissue data were collected and assessed on the water body data from January 1, 2014 to
December 31, 2018.

                                                8
Physical and chemical data include such parameters as pH, temperature, dissolved oxygen,
toxicants, turbidity, total dissolved solids (TDS), and specific conductance. Biological data
include the community structure of aquatic insects, other macroinvertebrates, fish, and/or algae.
Bacteriological data include water column surveys for fecal coliform bacteria, E coli, or
enterococci bacteria. Fish tissue data include the analyses of fish flesh for the presence of toxic
organic chemicals and metals. The length of record of the data, the quality of the data, and the
frequency at which the data are collected were considered in making use attainment decisions.

For 2020, MDEQ considered all known and readily available information on the quality of the
state's waters in conjunction with the rotating basin approach and MDEQ’s §305(b) assessment
program. However, only data that allowed for the accurate interpretation of the state’s water
quality standards or provided compelling evidence were used for §303(d) listing decisions.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


RULE 9.4 FISH AND SHELLFISH CONSUMPTION
ADVISORIES AND IMPAIRED WATERS
Non-attainment of the fish consumption use was assessed for a water body based on the presence
of a fish consumption advisory supported by fish tissue monitoring data. Water bodies with fish
consumption advisories, “restricted” or “no consumption,” were assessed as not attaining the fish
consumption use support designation. A list of fish consumption advisories can be found on the
MDEQ website at:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/field-services/fish-advisories-fish-tissue-and-fishing-bans/

Coastal water bodies with the Shellfish designated use that have consumption advisories are not
included in the 2020 §303(d) List because these waters already have completed TMDLs for
pathogens. These waters have a category 4A in the state's §305(b) report. These TMDLs are
available for review on MDEQ’s website.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


RULE 9.5 LAYOUT OF THE TABLES

A. Stream Listings

The impaired waters in Tables 3-5 below are sorted alphabetically by the river basin then by the
water body name. The extent of the segment is described beginning with the upstream boundary
thence to the downstream boundary. The maps of these segments are located in Appendix A.



                                                9
B. Pollutants Included

The pollutants are listed
specifically for each listing.
There are 279 listings for 2020.                                         2020 303(d) Pollutants
Biological Impairment is listed
242 times (86.7%). This listing
is generated based on assessing
the result of our benthic
sampling program M-BISQ.
When the water body is scored
below the eco-regional value, it
is added to the impaired waters
list. A stressor identification
process is then used to identify
the specific pollutants causing
the microbiological impairment.
Organic Enrichment, Total
Nitrogen, and Total Phosphorus             Biological Impairments, 242      Chlorides, 1
listings are for excessive                 Organic Enrichment, 6            Pathogens, 2
                                           pH, 9                            Sediment, 7
nutrients or organics which                Total Nitrogen, 7                Total Phosphorus, 5
impact the dissolved oxygen
and eutrophication in the water body. The pH listings are from water monitoring results which
are outside of the water quality criteria for pH. If there are multiple pollutants and/or uses for a
water body, these are shown as multiple listings for the water body.


C. Pollutant Source

Due to the nature of the monitoring and listings for 2020, the source of the impairment is
generally not known. For the biological listings a stressor identification process is required to
identify probable primary stressors. Once identified, these probable primary stressors are
incorporated into the §303(d) List and the biological impairment listing is removed.


D. Water Body Identification Numbers

MDEQ and USGS completed work on the new 12-digit watershed-based delineation of
Mississippi in 2005. MDEQ incorporated this new delineation into the identification numbering
system for water body segments in the states beginning with the 2006 §305(b) report. Each listed
water body segment is identified by a six-digit numeric code. The first digit identifies which
basin contains the water body. The major river basins are numbered 1 through 9 in alphabetical
order (1 for the Big Black River Basin, 2 for the Coastal Streams Basin, through 9 for the Yazoo
Basin.) [See map on page 4.] The next three digits in the six-digit water body identification
number refer to the specific subwatershed within that basin. Each major river basin has the
subwatersheds it contains numbered beginning with 1 (subwatershed 146 located in the Big
                                                10
Black River Basin would be numbered 1146, subwatershed 74 located in the Pascagoula River
Basin would be numbered 4074.) The final two digits in the six-digit water body identification
number refer to a specific stream segment within the specified subwatershed. For instance,
Beaver Creek, water body ID 521413, is stream segment 13 in subwatershed 214 in the Pearl
River Basin.


E. Basin Maps

Maps are included in Appendix A for each basin. Streams shown in blue are the impaired stream
segments. In some river basins, the maps were split into 8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes to better
fit the page.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.



RULE 9.6 CHANGES MADE FOR 2020
Table 3 provides the changes proposed for 2020 including completed TMDLs since 2018, the
monitored streams that are delisted because they are now fully supporting, and other changes
made to the list. In addition, the federal NTTS TMDL tracking information are provided. The
National TMDL Tracking System (NTTS) number is provided by EPA after the TMDL is
finalized and approved. This becomes the identification number for that TMDL report. Full
supporting documentation for delisting decisions is available on our website at:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/surface-water/tmdl/delistings

For a more detailed description of the data and assessment steps taken, please refer to the state's
§305(b) report. This report to Congress reviews all of the data collected and reports results both
attaining and non-attaining on the states waters.


Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


A. Pollutant Change

A listing of Biological Impairment indicates that the waterbody is not fully supporting its aquatic
life use. For these waterbodies, a Stressor Identification is required to determine the probable
primary cause(s) of the impairment. In many cases the stressor is determined and a TMDL is
immediately developed. However, if the Stressor Identification and TMDL approval do not fall
in the same listing cycle a pollutant change is required. The waterbodies in Table 3 below have
been subject to a Stressor Identification and will require a TMDL for the prescribed pollutant in
the future.

                                                11
Table 3. Pollutant Change
                                  Water
   Basin      Water Body Name     Body      County                       Location                     Pollutant(s)
                                   ID

South                                                    Near Carlisle from headwaters to mouth at
Independent   Storm Creek         602811   Claiborne     Bayou Pierre                                Sediment
Tombigbee     Chinchanoma                                From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee
River         Creek               812811   Oktibbeha     River                                       Sediment
Tombigbee                                                From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee
River         Shaw Creek          812313   Oktibbeha     River                                       Sediment
Tombigbee                                                From headwaters to mouth at Tenn-Tom
River         Spring Creek        809312   Clay          Waterway                                    Sediment
                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                     Nitrogen,
                                                                                                     Total
Tombigbee     Unnamed Tributary                          Near Stephens from headwaters to mouth      Phosphorus
River         to Catalpa Creek    809012   Lowndes       at Catalpa Creek                            and Sediment
Tombigbee     Unnamed Tributary                          Near Artesia from headwaters to mouth at
River         to Gilmer Creek     810412   Lowndes       Gilmer Creek                                Sediment
Tombigbee                                  Winston,      Near Betheden from headwaters to the
River         Yellow Creek        813211   Noxubee       Noxubee River                               Sediment
                                                         From headwaters to confluence of Hudson
Yazoo River   Clear Creek         904611   Lafayette     Creek                                       Sediment
                                                         Near Sardis from headwaters to mouth at
Yazoo River   Hudson Creek        904612   Lafayette     Clear Creek                                 Sediment
                                                         Near New Albany from headwaters to
Yazoo River   Jasper Creek        900511   Union         mouth at Little Tallahatchie River          Sediment
                                                         From headwaters to mouth at North
Yazoo River   Medlock Branch      902514   Tippah        Tippah Creek                                Sediment
              North Tippah                               Near Ripley from confluence with
Yazoo River   Creek               902512   Tippah        Medlock Branch to mouth at Tippah River     Sediment
              North Tippah                               Near Ripley from headwaters to mouth at
Yazoo River   Creek               902515   Tippah        confluence with Medlock Branch              Sediment
              South Tippah
Yazoo River   Creek               902513   Tippah        From headwaters to mouth at Tippah River    Sediment



B. Changes to the List this Cycle (TMDL Complete, Delistings)

The waters in Table 4. Below have been removed from the current list because they have been
included in a TMDL, have been found to support the designated use, or as a correction.




                                                    12
Table 4. Delistings this Cycle
               Water      Water
                                                Impaired                                            Listing
  Basin        Body       Body       County                    Pollutant         Location
                                                  Use                                               Change
               Name        Id
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                                                                  approved by
                                                                                                  EPA
                                                                            Near Mathiston        3/29/2019
Big Black     Big Black            Webster,    Aquatic Life                 from Headwaters to    (MS_Big_Bla
River         River       100111   Choctaw     Use Support    Sediment      MWS 1003              ck_Sediment)
                                                                            Near Hoffman from
Big Black     Jordan                           Aquatic Life   Biological    headwaters to mouth   Waterbody
River         Creek       102911   Holmes      Use Support    Impairment    at Big Black River    Attaining Use
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                                                                  approved by
                                                                            From the              EPA
              Middle                                                        headwaters to the     3/29/2019
Big Black     Bywy                             Aquatic Life                 mouth at Big Bywy     (MS_Big_Bla
River         Creek       10911    Choctaw     Use Support    Sediment      Ditch                 ck_Sediment)
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
              Unnamed                                                                             approved by
              Tributary                                                                           EPA
              to Pigeon                                                     From headwaters to    3/29/2019
Big Black     Roost                            Aquatic Life                 the mouth at Pigeon   (MS_Big_Bla
River         Creek       100411   Oktibbeha   Use Support    Sediment      Roost Creek           ck_Sediment)
                                                              Organic       From County Road
                                                              Enrichment/   East of Orange
                                                              Low           Grove to mouth at     TMDL
Coastal       Bayou                            Aquatic Life   Dissolved     Point Aux Chenes      proposed by
Streams       Cumbest     200311   Jackson     Use Support    Oxygen        Bay                   EPA
                                                                                                  TMDL not
                                                                                                  appropriate.
                                                                                                  No longer
              Gulf Park                                                     Near Ocean Springs    monitored
Coastal       Estates                          Aquatic Life   Total         from Pelican Ave to   due to change
Streams       Beach       250411   Jackson     Use            Nitrogen      Deer Street           in use
                                                                            At Rio from
Pascagoula    Houston              Neshoba,    Aquatic Life   Biological    headwaters to mouth   Waterbody
River         Creek       400312   Kemper      Use Support    Impairment    at Okatibbee Creek    Attaining Use
                                                                            Near Basin from
Pascagoula    Indian                           Aquatic Life   Biological    headwaters to mouth   Waterbody
River         Creek       417612   George      Use Support    Impairment    at Pascagoula River   Attaining Use
                                                                            Near Centerville
South         Thompson                         Aquatic Life                 from headwaters to    Waterbody
Independent   Creek       611311   Wilkinson   Use Support    Sediment      LA state line         Attaining Use




                                                13
           Water      Water
                                               Impaired                                             Listing
  Basin    Body       Body       County                       Pollutant          Location
                                                 Use                                                Change
           Name        Id
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                                                                  approved by
                                                                            From headwaters to    EPA
Yazoo     Ascalmore                           Aquatic Life   Biological     confluence of Shook   4/17/2008
River     Creek       918411   Tallahatchie   Use Support    Impairment     Creek                 (908041701)
                                                                            Near Water Valley
                                                                            from headwaters to
Yazoo     Bynum                               Aquatic Life   Biological     Enid Lake Flood       Waterbody
River     Creek       907711   Panola         Use Support    Impairment     Pool                  Attaining Use
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                             Organic                              approved by
                                                             Enrichment/                          EPA
                                                             Low            From headwaters to    3/20/2020
Yazoo     Beaver               Bolivar,       Aquatic Life   Dissolved      MWS 9360              (MS_Beaver_
River     Bayou       935312   Sunflower      Use Support    Oxygen         Boundary              Bayou_DO)
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                             Organic                              approved by
                                                             Enrichment/                          EPA
                                                             Low            From MWS              3/20/2020
Yazoo     Beaver               Bolivar,       Aquatic Life   Dissolved      Boundary 9020 to      (MS_Beaver_
River     Bayou       936012   Sunflower      Use Support    Oxygen         MWS 9019              Bayou_DO)
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                                                                  approved by
                                                                            Near Etta from        EPA
Yazoo     Cypress                             Aquatic Life   Biological     MWS boundary          4/17/2008
River     Creek       902111   Lafayette      Use Support    Impairment     9020 to MWS 9019      (908041701)
                                                             Organic
                                                             Enrichment /
                                                             Low
Yazoo     Eagle                               Aquatic Life   Dissolved      Entire lake near      Waterbody
River     Lake        948812   Warren         Use Support    Oxygen         Eagle Bend            Attaining Use

Yazoo     Eagle                               Aquatic Life   Total          Entire lake near      Waterbody
River     Lake        948812   Warren         Use Support    Phosphorus     Eagle Bend            Attaining Use
                                                                            From headwaters to
Yazoo     Greasy               Lafayette,     Aquatic Life   Biological     mouth at Sardis       Waterbody
River     Creek       904511   Panola, Tate   Use Support    Impairment     Lake                  Attaining Use
                                                                                                  TMDL
                                                                                                  developed by
                                                                                                  MDEQ and
                                                                                                  approved by
          Skuna       914811                                                                      EPA
Yazoo     River       914911                  Aquatic Life   Biological     From headwaters to    4/17/2008
River     Canal       915011   Calhoun        Use Support    Impairment     MWS333                (908041701)

                                               14
C. Alternative Action Plans (Category 5 alt, Category 4B, Category 4C)

EPA’s current vision for the Clean Water Act 303(d) program provides a more updated and
collaborative framework for implementation of the program. In particular, it encourages focusing
attention on priority waters and acknowledges states have flexibility in using available tools
beyond TMDLs to attain water quality restoration and protection. In the Integrated Reporting
Guidance (IRG) issued in 2016, EPA acknowledged the most effective method for achieving
water quality restoration or protection may be through controls developed and implemented in
advance of a TMDL. The IRG specifically defined the sub-category 5-alt in which actions are
taken in advance of a TMDL may be more effective than a TMDL in achieving the goal of
attaining water quality necessary to support a designated use for impaired waters. If an
alternative approach does not show progress in achieving water quality improvement the
impaired segment will be reprioritized for TMDL development. The waters listed as 5-Alt in
Table 5 below have been the focus of a collaborative effort between MDEQ and the Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) as part of the National Water Quality Initiative that
assess sources, loadings, and success measures necessary to achieve water quality standards.

IRG also provides and explanation of Category 4C. A water may be placed in Category 4C if
data indicate that at least one designated use is not being met, but the impairment is not caused
by a pollutant, but by pollution. For example, aquatic life use is not supported due to hydrologic
alteration or habitat alteration. Turkey Creek is being assigned to Category 4C due to hydrologic
alteration that has resulted in a drastically reduced drainage area. More information is available
in delisting package that can be found at the link listed above.



Table 5. Alternative Action Plans (5-Alt, 4C)
            Water     Water
 Basin
             Body     Body     County       Pollutant   Category                   Location
            Name       ID
Yazoo     Clear                                                    From Headwaters to confluence with
River     Creek      904611    Lafayette   Sediment      5-Alt     Hudson Creek
Yazoo     Hudson                                                   Near Sardis from Headwaters to mouth at
River     Creek      904612    Lafayette   Sediment      5-Alt     Clear Creek

Yazoo     Medlock                                                  From Headwaters to Mouth at North Tippah
River     Branch     902514    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     Creek
          North                                                    From Headwaters to confluence with
Yazoo     Tippah     902512,                                       Medlock Branch, From Medlock Branch to
River     Creek      902515    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     mouth at Tippah River
          South
Yazoo     Tippah
River     Creek      902513    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     From headwaters to mouth at Tippah River
Coastal   Turkey                           Biological              From confluence with Canal Number 2 to
Streams   Creek      202211    Harrison    Impairment     4C       HWY 49 bridge

The 2008 IRG provided additional guidance on assigning waters to Category 4B. This guidance
recognized that alternative pollution control measures may obviate the need for a TMDL.
Specifically, segments are not required to be included on the 303(d) List if “other pollution
                                                 15
control requirements by local, State, or Federal Authority” are stringent enough to implement
applicable water quality standards. Table 6. Details the waters assigned to Category 4B for
2020.

Table 6. Alternative Action Plans (4B)
            Water       Water
                                                Impaired                               Location
Basin        Body       Body        County                         Pollutant                           Corrective Action
                                                  Use
            Name         ID
          Unnamed                                                                    From
          Tributary                                                                  headwaters to   Facility upgrades are
Big       to Pigeon                             Aquatic                              mouth at        expected to result in
Black     Roost                                 Life Use        Total Nitrogen,      Pigeon Roost    attainment of Water
River     Creek         100411   Oktibbeha      Support         Total Phosphorus     Creek           Quality Standards
                                                                                     From            A process change is
Big       Middle                                Aquatic                              headwaters to   expected to result in
Black     Bywy                                  Life Use        Increased Ionic      mouth at Big    attainment of Water
River     Creek         100911   Choctaw        Support         Strength/Toxicity    Bywy Ditch      Quality Standards




D. New Listings (Category 5)

The waters listed in Table 7 are the new additions to the 303(d) List.


Table 7. New Additions
                Water      Water
                                                    Impaired
  Basin         Body       Body        County                        Pollutant                       Location
                                                      Use
                Name        Id
                                                   Aquatic
Big Black     Kyle                                 Life Use         Biological      From headwaters to mouth of Big Black
River         Creek        102811     Holmes       Support          Impairment      River
                                                   Aquatic
Big Black     Markham                              Life Use         Biological      From headwaters to mouth of Big Black
River         Creek        108011     Warren       Support          Impairment      River
                                                   Aquatic
Coastal       Bayou                                Life Use         Biological      From headwaters to confluence with
Streams       La Terre     204112     Hancock      Support          Impairment      Unnamed Tributary
North                                              Aquatic
Independent   Coon                                 Life Use         Biological      From headwaters to mouth of Tuscumbia
Streams       Creek        301312     Alcorn       Support          Impairment      River Canal
              UNT
              North
North         Prong                                Aquatic
Independent   Muddy                                Life Use         Biological
Streams       Creek        302013     Tippah       Support          Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Muddy Creek
                                                   Aquatic
Pascagoula    Penders                              Life Use         Biological      From headwaters to mouth of Chickasawhay
River         Creek        400412     Kemper       Support          Impairment      Creek


                                                           16
               Water    Water
                                             Impaired
   Basin       Body     Body      County                  Pollutant                     Location
                                               Use
               Name      Id
                                             Aquatic
Pascagoula    Reese                          Life Use     Biological
River         Creek     416212   Forest      Support      Impairment   From Temple Rd to mouth at Leaf River
                                 Jefferson
                                 Davis,      Aquatic
Pascagoula    Black              Marion,     Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to confluence with
River         Creek     418412   Lamar       Support      Impairment   Monroe Creek

Pascagoula    Sandy
River         Run       418613   Lamar       Recreation   Pathogens    From headwaters to mouth at Black Creek
              White                          Aquatic                   From confluence with Little White Sand
              Sand               Jefferson   Life Use     Biological   Creek (Jaybird Creek) to mouth at Pearl
Pearl River   Creek     516111   Davis       Support      Impairment   River
                                             Aquatic
South         Beaver                         Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to mouth at Homochitto
Independent   Creek     608312   Wilkinson   Support      Impairment   River
                                             Aquatic
South         Zeigler                        Life Use     Biological   Near Rosetta from headwaters to mouth at
Independent   Creek     607811   Franklin    Support      Impairment   Homochitto River
                                             Aquatic
Tombigbee     Black                          Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to end near MWS 8207
River         Creek     810013   Lowndes     Support      Impairment   boundary
                                             Aquatic
Tombigbee     Greens                         Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to mouth of Tombigbee
River         Creek     810312   Lowndes     Support      Impairment   River
              Little                         Aquatic
Tombigbee     Wolf                           Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to confluence with Wolf
River         Creek     818812   Prentiss    Support      Impairment   Creek
              Mineral                        Aquatic
Tombigbee     Springs                        Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to mouth of Blackwater
River         Branch    817312   Kemper      Support      Impairment   Creek
                                             Aquatic
Tombigbee     Minga                          Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to confluence with Mill
River         Branch    806612   Monroe      Support      Impairment   Creek
                                             Aquatic
Tombigbee     Mubby                          Life Use     Biological   From headwaters to confluence with
River         Creek     820011   Pontotoc    Support      Impairment   Chiwapa Creek
                                             Aquatic
Tombigbee     Tadpole                        Life Use     Biological
River         Creek     803112   Monroe      Support      Impairment   From headwaters to Aberdeen Lake
              Talking                        Aquatic
Tombigbee     Warrior                        Life Use     Biological
River         Creek     812711   Oktibbeha   Support      Impairment   From headwaters to MWS 8128 boundary
                                             Aquatic
Yazoo         Pelucia                        Life Use     Biological
River         Creek     919311   Carroll     Support      Impairment   From headwaters to MWS 9192 boundary



                                                  17
E. TMDL Successes (Category 4a to Category 2)

The objective of any TMDL is to determine the loading capacity of the waterbody and to allocate
that load among different pollutant sources so that the appropriate control actions can be taken
and water quality standards achieved. The TMDL process is important for improving water
quality because it serves as a link in the chain between water quality standards and
implementation of control actions designed to attain those standards. The waters listed in Table 8
have been the subject of one or more TMDLs and through corrective action to reduce the
pollutant load are now successfully supporting the designated use. Maps of the TMDL
Successes can be found in Appendix B.


Table 8. TMDL Successes
            Water Body     Water                    Impair
 Basin                                County                    Pollutant            Location           Listing Change
              Name        Body Id                   ed Use
                                                    Aquatic                   Near Stewart from
Big Black   Big Bywy                                Life Use   Total          headwaters to mouth at    TMDL Complete
River       Creek         100811    Choctaw         Support    Nitrogen       McCurtain Creek           04/30/2007

                                                    Aquatic                   Near Stewart from
Big Black   Big Bywy                                Life Use   Total          headwaters to mouth at    TMDL Complete
River       Creek         100811    Choctaw         Support    Phosphorus     McCurtain Creek           04/30/2007

                                                    Aquatic                   Near Stewart from
Big Black   Big Bywy                                Life Use   OE/ Low        headwaters to mouth at    TMDL Complete
River       Creek         100811    Choctaw         Support    DO             McCurtain Creek           04/30/2007

                                                    Aquatic                   Near Stewart from
Big Black   Big Bywy                                Life Use                  headwaters to mouth at    TMDL Complete
River       Creek         100811    Choctaw         Support    Sediment       McCurtain Creek           01/26/2007
North
Independe                                           Aquatic                   At Hernando from
nt          Horn Lake                               Life Use   Nutrient       headwaters to Tennessee   TMDL Complete
Streams     Creek         303411    De Soto         Support    Pollution      Line                      04/01/2006
                                                               Organic
North                                                          Enrichment /
Independe                                           Aquatic    Low            At Hernando from
nt          Horn Lake                               Life Use   Dissolved      headwaters to Tennessee   TMDL Complete
Streams     Creek         303411    De Soto         Support    Oxygen         Line                      04/01/2006
North
Independe                                           Aquatic                   At Hernando from
nt          Horn Lake                               Life Use                  headwaters to Tennessee   TMDL Complete
Streams     Creek         303411    De Soto         Support    Sediment       Line                      11/30/2005
North
Independe                                           Aquatic                   Near Walls from
nt          Horn Lake                               Life Use   Total          headwaters to MS/TN       TMDL Complete
Streams     Creek         303411    De Soto         Support    Phosphorus     stateline                 04/01/2006
                                                                              Near Maxie from
                                                                              confluence with Bowens
                                                                              Buy Creek at MWS
Pascagoul   Beaver Dam                              Recreati                  boundary 4194 to MWS      TMDL Complete
a River     Creek         419511    Forest, Perry   on         Pathogens      boundary 4196             12/15/1999
                                                                              At Shubuta from MWS
                                                                              boundary 4056 at County
Pascagoul   Chickasaway             Clarke,         Recreati                  Road 275 to confluence    TMDL Complete
a River     River         405911    Wayne           on         Pathogens      with Eucutta Creek        12/15/1999

                                                       18
            Water Body      Water                Impair
 Basin                                 County                Pollutant           Location            Listing Change
              Name         Body Id               ed Use
                                                 Aquatic                  From MWS boundary
Pascagoul   Pascagoula                           Life Use                 4176 to MWS boundary       TMDL Complete
a River     River          418111    Jackson     Support    Pathogens     4182                       12/15/1999

            West Little                          Aquatic                  Near Good Hope from
Pascagoul   Thompson                             Life Use                 headwaters to mouth at     TMDL Complete
a River     Creek          415112    Wayne       Support    Sediment      Thompson Creek             05/18/2005

                                                 Aquatic                  Near Johnstons Station
Pearl       Clabber                              Life Use                 from headwaters to Bogue   TMDL Complete
River       Creek          521412    Pike        Support    Sediment      Chitto River               03/25/2009


Pearl                                            Recreati                 From headwaters to mouth   TMDL Complete
River       Clear Creek    521512    Pike        on         Pathogens     at Bogue Chitto River      05/14/2010

South                                            Aquatic                  Near Darrington from
Independe   Crooked                              Life Use                 headwaters to mouth at     TMDL Complete
nt          Creek          609011    Wilkinson   Support    sediment      Homochitto River           03/25/2009

South                                            Aquatic                  Near Lorman from
Independe                  604211/               Life Use                 headwaters to mouth at     TMDL Complete
nt          James Creek    604311    Claiborne   Support    sediment      Bayou Pierre               03/25/2009




South                                            Aquatic                  Near Ireland from
Independe                                        Life Use                 headwaters to mouth at     TMDL Complete
nt          Pretty Creek   608311    Adams       Support    sediment      Homochitto River           03/25/2009

South                                            Aquatic                  Near Bunkley from
Independe   Richardson                           Life Use                 headwaters to mouth at     TMDL Complete
nt          Creek          607911    Franklin    Support    Sediment      Homochitto River           03/25/2009

South                                            Aquatic                  Near Doloroso from
Independe                  609111/               Life Use                 headwaters to Homochitto   TMDL Complete
nt          Second Creek   609211    Adams       Support    Sediment      River                      03/25/2009
                                                                          At Seven Pines from
                           991711/               Aquatic                  confluence with Coila
Yazoo                      919811/               Life Use                 Creek to MWS boundary      TMDL Complete
River       Abiaca Creek   920011    Carroll     Support    Sediment      9201                       04/15/2008

                                                 Aquatic
Yazoo                                            Life Use                 Entire lake in Holmes      TMDL Complete
River       Bee Lake       941711    Holmes      Support    Sediment      County                     06/30/2003
                                                            Organic
                                                            Enrichment/
                                                 Aquatic    Low
Yazoo                                            Life Use   Dissolved     Entire lake in Holmes      TMDL Complete
River       Bee Lake       941711    Holmes      Support    Oxygen        County                     06/30/2003

                                                 Aquatic
Yazoo                                            Life Use                 Entire lake in Holmes      TMDL Complete
River       Bee Lake       941711    Holmes      Support    Nutrients     County                     06/30/2003
                                                            Organic
                                                            Enrichment/
                                                 Aquatic    Low
Yazoo                                            Life Use   Dissolved     Near Satartia off Dump     TMDL Complete
River       Dump Lake      923011    Yazoo       Support    Oxygen        Lake Road near boat ramp   06/30/2003

                                                    19
         Water Body       Water                   Impair
 Basin                               County                   Pollutant            Location             Listing Change
           Name          Body Id                  ed Use
                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                                             Life Use                 Near Satartia off Dump       TMDL Complete
River    Dump Lake       923011    Yazoo          Support    Nutrients     Lake Road near boat ramp     06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                                             Life Use                 Near Satartia off Dump       TMDL Complete
River    Dump Lake       923011    Yazoo          Support    Sediment      Lake Road near boat ramp     06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo    Lake                                     Life Use                                              TMDL Complete
River    Washington      944611    Washington     Support    Sediment      Entire Lake Washington       06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo    Lake                                     Life Use                                              TMDL Complete
River    Washington      944211    Washington     Support    Sediment      Entire Lake Washington       06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                                             Life Use                                              TMDL Complete
River    Mossy Lake      942211    Leflore        Support    Nutrients     Entire lake near Swiftown    06/30/2003
                                                             Organic
                                                             Enrichment/
                                                  Aquatic    Low
Yazoo                                             Life Use   Dissolved                                  TMDL Complete
River    Mossy Lake      942211    Leflore        Support    Oxygen        Entire lake near Swiftown    06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                                             Life Use                                              TMDL Complete
River    Mossy Lake      942211    Leflore        Support    Sediment      Entire lake near Swiftown    04/17/2008

         North Fork                               Aquatic
Yazoo    Tillatoba                 Yalobusha,     Life Use                 From headwaters to mouth     TMDL Complete
River    Creek           906611    Tallahatchie   Support    Sediment      at Tillatoba Creek           04/17/2008
                                                             Organic
                                                             Enrichment/
                                                  Aquatic    Low
Yazoo    Roebuck                                  Life Use   Dissolved                                  TMDL Complete
River    Lake            938212    Leflore        Support    Oxygen        Entire lake near Itta Bena   04/17/2008

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo    Roebuck                                  Life Use   Total                                      TMDL Complete
River    Lake            938212    Leflore        Support    Nitrogen      Entire lake near Itta Bena   06/11/2008

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo    Roebuck                                  Life Use   Total                                      TMDL Complete
River    Lake            938212    Leflore        Support    Phosphorus    Entire lake near Itta Bena   06/11/2008

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo    Roebuck                                  Life Use                                              TMDL Complete
River    Lake            938212    Leflore        Support    Sediment      Entire lake near Itta Bena   04/17/2008

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                                             Life Use                 From Headwaters To           TMDL Complete
River    Short Creek     922711    Yazoo          Support    Sediment      Mouth at the Yazoo River     04/17/2008

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                              Leflore,       Life Use                 Near Money at CR 541         TMDL Complete
River    Six Mile Lake   937711    Sunflower      Support    Nutrients     Bridge                       06/30/2003

                                                  Aquatic
Yazoo                              Leflore,       Life Use                 Near Money at CR 541         TMDL Complete
River    Six Mile Lake   937711    Sunflower      Support    Sediment      Bridge                       04/17/2008


                                                     20
          Water Body    Water                Impair
 Basin                            County                 Pollutant           Location            Listing Change
            Name       Body Id               ed Use
                                                        Organic
                                                        Enrichment/
                                             Aquatic    Low
Yazoo                  941811/               Life Use   Dissolved                                TMDL Complete
River    Tchula Lake   941511    Holmes      Support    Oxygen        Entire Tchula Lake         06/17/2008

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo                  941811/               Life Use   Total                                    TMDL Complete
River    Tchula Lake   941511    Holmes      Support    Nitrogen      Entire Tchula Lake         06/17/2008

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo                  941811/               Life Use   Total                                    TMDL Complete
River    Tchula Lake   941511    Holmes      Support    Phosphorus    Entire Tchula Lake         06/17/2008

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo                  941811/               Life Use                                            TMDL Complete
River    Tchula Lake   941511    Holmes      Support    Sediment      Entire Tchula Lake         04/17/2008

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo    Thompson                            Life Use                 From headwaters to mouth   TMDL Complete
River    Creek         922811    Yazoo       Support    Toxics        at Perry Creek             06/18/2003

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo                                        Life Use   Total         Entire Wasp Lake near      TMDL Complete
River    Wasp Lake     942313    Humphreys   Support    Phosphorus    Belzoni                    06/30/2003

                                             Aquatic
Yazoo                                        Life Use                 Entire Wasp Lake near      TMDL Complete
River    Wasp Lake     942313    Humphreys   Support    Sediment      Belzoni                    06/30/2003
                                                        Organic
                                                        Enrichment/
                                             Aquatic    Low
Yazoo                                        Life Use   Dissolved     Entire Wasp Lake near      TMDL Complete
River    Wasp Lake     942313    Humphreys   Support    Oxygen        Belzoni                    06/30/2003




RULE 9.7 TMDLs SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS
MDEQ has developed a new collaborative framework for implementing the Clean Water Act in
compliance with a new national initiative by EPA. The Priority Framework Process is designed
to help coordinate efforts to advance the effectiveness of the water program. In order to select
priority watersheds MDEQ used landscape information to characterize and rank watersheds by
resource value and potential stressors. This new framework does not change regulation, policy
or issue new mandates. It is intended to provide focus for MDEQ’s water programs so as to
better manage the activities and promote collaboration to achieve water quality goals. More
information on the Priority Framework Process can be found here:

http://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/surface-water/priority-framework/

Table 9 below lists the TMDLs MDEQ has planned for development in 2020 and 2021 based on
resource availability. These TMDLs are also dependent on completion of stressor identifications
for the biological listings included.

                                                21
Table 9 TMDLs Scheduled for 2020 and 2021
                                                 Water
    Basin          Water Body Name                                County                 Pollutant
                                                Body ID
                                               413711,                               Biological
                                               413712,                              Impairment, Total
Pascagoula                                     413812,                              Nitrogen, pH, Total
River           Tallahala Creek                415511      Jones, Forest, Perry     Phosphorus
                                               412511,
                                               412711,
Pascagoula                                     412811,     Forest, Jasper, Jones,   Biological
River           Tallahoma Creek                412911      Perry                    Impairment
Tombigbee
River           Buttahatchie                   806711      Monroe                   pH
Tombigbee
River           Chinchahoma Creek              8209012     Oktibbeha                Sediment
Tombigbee
River           Shaw Creek                     812313      Oktibbeha                Sediment
Tombigbee
River           Spring Creek                   809312      Clay                     Sediment
Tombigbee       Unnamed Tributary to Catalpa
River           Creek                          809012      Lowndes                  Sediment
Tombigbee       Unnamed Tributary to Gilmer
River           Creek                          810412      Lowndes                  Sediment
Tombigbee
River           Yellow Creek                   813211      Winston, Noxubee         Sediment
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


RULE 9.8 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND APPROVAL
PROCESS
MDEQ notified the public of the availability of this document by publishing a Public Notice in a
statewide newspaper as well as selected regional newspapers. Additionally, MDEQ sent notices
of availability to those addressees on the TMDL notification list.

The public is invited to comment on the content of this document. The Public Notice period
began on August 28, 2020 and will continue until September 28, 2020. Comments are accepted
by mail or electronic submission and at a Public Hearing held via teleconference at the end of the
public comment period. The proposed document will be submitted to the Mississippi
Commission on Environmental Quality for adoption. Once adopted by the Commission, the
2020 §303(d) List will be submitted to EPA Region 4 for final approval, and then the Mississippi
2020 §303(d) List of Impaired Water Bodies will be filed with the Mississippi Secretary of State
in compliance with state law.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.




                                                  22
RULE 9.9 IMPAIRED WATERS LISTING
Table 10 Impaired Waters

                    Water Body         Water                 Impaired
     Basin                                         County                       Pollutant                        Location
                      Name            Body Id                  Use
                                                                                            Near Franklin from headwaters to confluence with
                  Big Cypress                               Aquatic Life    Biological      Unnamed Intermittent Tributary downstream of
Big Black River   Creek               104812    Holmes      Use Support     Impairment      Highway 17 bridge

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Crooked Creek       103913    Attala      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Seneasha Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Fleetwood Creek     109113    Hinds       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Bakers Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Hamer Bayou         109312    Warren      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Hobuck Creek        105511    Madison     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Doaks Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Reganton from headwaters to mouth at Big
Big Black River   Jims Bayou          109311    Warren      Use Support     Impairment      Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Kyle Creek          102811    Holmes      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Madison from headwaters to mouth at Bear
Big Black River   Little Bear Creek   105712    Madison     Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                  Little Black                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Creek               100511    Webster     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Black River



                                                                           23
                    Water Body       Water                   Impaired
     Basin                                      County                          Pollutant                        Location
                      Name          Body Id                    Use

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Markham Creek     108011    Warren        Use Support     Impairmen       From Headwaters To The Mouth Of Big Black River

                                              Attala,       Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Parker Creek      103914    Madison       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Seneasha Creek

                  Pepper/ Rucker                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Canton from headwaters to mouth at Beaver
Big Black River   Creek             104511    Yazoo         Use Support     Impairment      Run

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Persimmon Creek   106311    Madison       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Big Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Lynchburg from headwaters to mouth at Big
Big Black River   Porter Creek      107611    Hinds         Use Support     Impairment      Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Sand Creek        101112    Webster       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Calabrell Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Silver Creek      108012    Warren        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Black River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Spring Creek      100211    Webster       Use Support     Impairment      At Sara from headwaters to MWS 1001 boundary

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Big Black River   Turkey Creek      108711    Hinds         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Fourteen Mile Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Galloway from headwaters to mouth at Big
Big Black River   Willis Creek      109511    Warren        Use Support     Impairment      Black River

                                              Montgomery,   Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Shelbyton from headwaters to confluence with
Big Black River   Wolf Creek        101312    Webster       Use Support     Impairment      Patts Branch


                                                                           24
                    Water Body        Water                   Impaired
     Basin                                        County                         Pollutant                        Location
                      Name           Body Id                    Use
                                                                             Organic
                                                                             Enrichment /
                                                                             Low
                                                             Aquatic Life    Dissolved       From confluence of West Prong and East Prong to
Coastal Streams   Bayou Casotte      200313    Jackson       Use Support     Oxygen          turning basin
                                                                             Organic
                                                                             Enrichment /
                                                                             Low
                  Bayou Casotte                              Aquatic Life    Dissolved       From Louise Street to the confluence of West Prong
Coastal Streams   West Prong         200312    Jackson       Use Support     Oxygen          and East Prong

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to confluence with Unnamed
Coastal Streams   Bayou La Terre     204112    Hancock       Use Support     Impairment      Tributary

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Catahoula Creek    203311    Hancock       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Bernard Bayou

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Costapia Bayou     201611    Harrison      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tchoutacabouffa River

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Kiln from headwaters to confluence with
Coastal Streams   Dead Tiger Creek   203711    Hancock       Use Support     Impairment      Catahoula Creek

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Gulfport from headwaters to mouth at Bernard
Coastal Streams   Flat Branch        202111    Harrison      Use Support     Impairment      Bayou

                                               Hancock,      Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Hickory Creek      203411    Pearl River   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to MWS 2035 boundary

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 2034 boundary to mouth at Catahoula
Coastal Streams   Hickory Creek      203511    Hancock       Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Palmer Creek       200915    Harrison      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Biloxi River


                                                                            25
                    Water Body      Water                 Impaired
     Basin                                      County                       Pollutant                        Location
                      Name         Body Id                  Use

                                             Jackson,    Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Railroad Creek   201411    Harrison    Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Ramsey Creek
                  Unnamed
                  Tributary to               Harrison,   Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Bayou Lasalle    204013    Hancock     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Bayou Lasalle
                  Unnamed
                  Tributary to               Harrison,   Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Rotten Bayou     204012    Hancock     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Rotten Bayou

                                             Hancock,    Aquatic Life    Biological
Coastal Streams   Wolf Creek       205312    Harrison    Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Wolf River
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams           Bearman Creek    302412    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to N35°
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Bell Creek from headwaters to mouth at West Prong
Streams           Bell Creek       302012    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      Muddy Creek
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Rienzi From Headwaters To Mouth At Hinkle
Streams           Bynum Creek      300413    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      Creek
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams           Coon Creek       301312    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth of Tuscumbia River Canal
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Kossuth from the confluence with Underwood
Streams           Eastes Creek     301112    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      Creek to the mouth at Tuscumbia River Canal
North
Independent                                  Tippah,     Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Walnut from headwaters to mouth at Hatchie
Streams           Fourth Creek     301913    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      River
North
Independent                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams           Grays Creek      303511    Benton      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to TN state line


                                                                        26
                Water Body         Water                 Impaired
     Basin                                     County                       Pollutant                        Location
                  Name            Body Id                  Use
North
Independent                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Rienzi from headwaters to mouth at Tuscumbia
Streams       Hinkle Creek        300412    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      River Canal
North
Independent                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams       Little Cane Creek   301213    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tuscumbia River Canal
North
Independent                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams       Mcelroy Creek       301113    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tuscumbia River Canal
North
Independent                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams       Owl Creek           301412    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Little Hatchie River
North
Independent   Tarebreeches                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams       Creek               301212    Alcorn      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tuscumbia River Canal
North
Independent                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Falkner from headwaters to mouth at Muddy
Streams       Turkey Creek        302112    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      Creek
North
Independent   UNT North Prong                           Aquatic Life    Biological
Streams       Muddy Creek         302013    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Muddy Creek
North
Independent   West Prong                                Aquatic Life    Biological      At Falkner from headwaters to mouth at Muddy
Streams       Muddy Creek         302011    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River         Anderson Branch     401711    Newton      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Okahatta Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters at Unnamed Impoundment to MWS
River         Archusa Creek       405111    Clarke      Use Support     Impairment      4052 boundary.

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River         Beaver Creek        421212    Perry       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Hickory Creek


                                                                       27
               Water Body      Water                   Impaired
     Basin                                 County                         Pollutant                        Location
                 Name         Body Id                    Use

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life
River        Beaver Lake      418913    Lamar         Use Support     pH              Near Purvis

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Big Creek        409911    Jones         Use Support     Impairment      From MWS 4098 boundary to mouth at Leaf River
                                        Jefferson
                                        Davis,
Pascagoula                              Marion,       Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Black Creek      418412    Lamar         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Monroe Creek

Pascagoula                              Newton,       Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Cedar Creek      408611    Jasper        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Quarterliah Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Chunky Creek     401511    Newton        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters near Union to MWS boundary 4018

Pascagoula                              Lauderdale,   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Possum Creek to mouth at
River        Chunky River     402611    Clarke        Use Support     Impairment      Chickasawhay River

Pascagoula                              Newton,       Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Chunky Creek and Potterchitto
River        Chunky River     402312    Lauderdale    Use Support     Impairment      Creek to the MWS 4026 boundary

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Clear Creek      409013    Smith         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Oakohay Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Crawford Creek   406612    Wayne         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Terrell from headwaters to mouth at Bowie
River        Dry Creek        411111    Covington     Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Dry Creek        406613    Wayne         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Big Creek

                                                                     28
               Water Body       Water                    Impaired
     Basin                                  County                          Pollutant                         Location
                 Name          Body Id                     Use

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Dry Creek         403811    Clark, Wayne   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Buckatunna Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Fallen Creek      424012    Clarke         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Chickasawhay River

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Carmichael from headwaters to mouth at
River        Five Mile Creek   424211    Clarke         Use Support     Impairment      Buckatunna Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From outfall of Flint Creek Reservoir to mouth at
River        Flint Creek       420211    Stone          Use Support     Impairment      Red Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Gordon Creek      405011    Clarke         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Souenlovie Creek

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Heidelberg from headwaters to mouth at
River        Horse Branch      413612    Jasper         Use Support     Impairment      Tallahattah Creek

Pascagoula   Little Oakahay                             Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Creek             408912    Smith          Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Oakohay Creek

Pascagoula                               Lauderdale,    Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Gays Branch to Mws 4031
River        Long Creek        403011    Clarke         Use Support     Impairment      boundary

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Martin Creek      407813    Greene         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to Leaksville POTW outfall

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From Leaksville POTW outfall downstream to mouth
River        Martin Creek      407812    Greene         Use Support     Impairment      at Chakasawhay River

Pascagoula                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Mill Creek        418612    Lamar          Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Black Creek


                                                                       29
               Water Body       Water                  Impaired
     Basin                                  County                        Pollutant                       Location
                 Name          Body Id                   Use

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 4010 boundary to mouth at
River        Okatibbee Creek   401111    Lauderdale   Use Support     Impairment      Chickasawhay River

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Savoy from confluence with Sowashee Creek to
River        Okatibbee Creek   401011    Lauderdale   Use Support     Impairment      MWS 4011 boundary

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Total           Near Savoy from confluence with Sowashee Creek to
River        Okatibbee Creek   401011    Lauderdale   Use Support     Nitrogen, pH    MWS 4011 boundary

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Total           From confluence with Roger Creek to confluence
River        Okatoma Creek     410511    Covington    Use Support     Nitrogen        with Big Swamp Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Penantly Creek    404712    Jasper       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Souenlovie Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Penders Creek     400412    Kemper       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth of Chickasawhay Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Heildelberg from headwaters to mouth at Bogue
River        Prairie Creek     413911    Jasper       Use Support     Impairment      Homo

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life                    From MWS 4206 Boundary at confluence with Bluff
River        Red Creek         420711    George       Use Support     pH              Creek to MWS 4209 boundary at Red Creek Road

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Reese Creek       416212    Forest       Use Support     Impairment      From Temple Rd to mouth at Leaf River

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Rocky Creek       403311    Clarke       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Buckatunna Creek

Pascagoula                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River        Rocky Creek       426211    George       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Escatawpa River


                                                                     30
               Water Body        Water                       Impaired
     Basin                                   County                             Pollutant                        Location
                 Name           Body Id                        Use

Pascagoula
River        Sandy Run          418613    Lamar             Recreation      Pathogens       From headwaters to mouth at Black Creek

Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Penantly Creek to confluence
River        Souenlovie Creek   404811    Clarke, Jasper    Use Support     Impairment      with Twistwood Creek
                                                                            Total
                                                                            Nitrogen,       At Meridian from headwaters to confluence with
Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Total           Unnamed Tributary at MWS 4237 boundary
River        Sowashee Creek     400811    Lauderdale        Use Support     Phosphorus
                                                                            Total
                                                                            Nitrogen,
Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Total
River        Sowashee Creek     423711    Lauderdale        Use Support     Phosphorus      From MWS 4008 boundary to MWS 4009 boundary
                                                                            Total
                                                                            Nitrogen,
Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Total           From confluence with Unnamed Tributary at MWS
River        Sowashee Creek     400911    Lauderdale        Use Support     Phosphorus      4237 boundary to confluence with Okatibbee Creek

Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence of Talahata Creek to confluence of
River        Tallahala Creek    413711    Jones, Jasper     Use Support     Impairment      Big Reely Creek

Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Big Reely Creek to MWS 4138
River        Tallahala Creek    413712    Jones             Use Support     Impairment      boundary

Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 4137 boundary to confluence with
River        Tallahala Creek    413812    Jones             Use Support     Impairment      Tallahoma Creek

Pascagoula                                Jones, Forrest,   Aquatic Life                    From confluence with Courtney Creek to MWS 4156
River        Tallahala Creek    415511    Perry             Use Support     pH, TN, TP      boundary near Hammock Branch

Pascagoula                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Horse Creek to confluence
River        Tallahoma Creek    412911    Jones             Use Support     Impairment      with Tallahala Creek



                                                                           31
                Water Body       Water                      Impaired
     Basin                                   County                            Pollutant                         Location
                  Name          Body Id                       Use

Pascagoula                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Terrapin Creek to confluence
River         Tallahoma Creek   412811    Jones            Use Support     Impairment      with Horse Creek

Pascagoula                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Laurel from confluence with Piney Branch to
River         Tallahoma Creek   412511    Jasper           Use Support     Impairment      MWS 4127 boundary

Pascagoula                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 4125 boundary to confluence with
River         Tallahoma Creek   412711    Jasper, Jones    Use Support     Impairment      Terrapin Creek

Pascagoula                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with East Tiger Creek to mouth at
River         Tiger Creek       414512    Jones            Use Support     Impairment      Bogue Homo

Pascagoula                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence of North and South Twistwood
River         Twistwood Creek   423811    Jasper, Clarke   Use Support     Impairment      Creek to mouth at Souinlovie Creek
              Unnamed
Pascagoula    Tributary to                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River         Oakohay Creek     409014    Smith            Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Oakohay Creek

Pascagoula    West Bouie                  Jefferson        Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Bassfield from headwaters to confluence with
River         Creek             411212    Davis            Use Support     Impairment      Bouie River

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pelahatchie from headwaters to mouth at
Pearl River   Ashlog Creek      508313    Rankin           Use Support     Impairment      Pelahatchie Creek

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Russell Creek to confluence
Pearl River   Bahala Creek      513911    Copiah           Use Support     Impairment      with Little Bahala Creek

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Johnstons Station from outfall of Dixie Springs
Pearl River   Beaver Creek      521413    Pike             Use Support     Impairment      Lake to mouth at Bogue Chitto River

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Harrisville from MWS 5131 boundary at Heed
Pearl River   Big Creek         513211    Simpson          Use Support     Impairment      Neely Road bridge to mouth at strong River


                                                                          32
                Water Body       Water                     Impaired
     Basin                                   County                           Pollutant                        Location
                  Name          Body Id                      Use

              Bogue Chitto                                Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Boone Creek to confluence
Pearl River   River             521111    Lincoln         Use Support     Impairment      with Myers Creek

              Bogue Chitto                                Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Myers Creek to Johnson’s
Pearl River   River             521311    Lincoln         Use Support     Impairment      Station

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Brookhaven from headwaters to mouth at
Pearl River   Boone Creek       521113    Lincoln         Use Support     Impairment      Bogue Chitto

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pulaski from headwaters at W Moore Tower
Pearl River   Caney Creek       511411    Scott, Smith    Use Support     Impairment      Road to mouth at Strong River

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pelahatchie from headwaters to mouth at
Pearl River   Clear Creek       508611    Rankin          Use Support     Impairment      Pelahatchie Creek

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Carthage from headwaters to mouth at Lobutcha
Pearl River   Cobbs Creek       504111    Leake           Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near French Camp from headwaters to MWS 5059
Pearl River   Cole Creek        506111    Attala          Use Support     Impairment      boundary

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Renfroe from headwaters to mouth at Lobutcha
Pearl River   Coon Creek        503713    Leake           Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                          Jefferson       Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Unnamed Tributary at MWS
Pearl River   Holiday Creek     516311    Davis, Marion   Use Support     Impairment      5162 boundary to mouth at Pearl River

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pelahatchie from headwaters to mouth at Clear
Pearl River   Hollybush Creek   508612    Rankin          Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Hontokalo Creek   504711    Scott           Use Support     Impairment      Near Steel from headwaters to mouth at Little Canal


                                                                         33
                Water Body         Water                     Impaired
     Basin                                     County                           Pollutant                        Location
                  Name            Body Id                      Use

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Bogue Chitto from headwaters to mouth at
Pearl River   Land Creek          500911    Kemper          Use Support     Impairment      Bogue Chitto River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Line Creek          508312    Scott, Rankin   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Pelahatchie Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Lynch Creek         509311    Hinds           Use Support     Impairment      At Jackson from headwaters to the Pearl River

                                            Kemper,         Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Preston from headwaters to the Bogue Chitto
Pearl River   Owl Creek           501111    Neshoba         Use Support     Impairment      River

                                            Leake,          Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Pellaphalia Creek   507212    Madison         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Pearl River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Redwater from headwaters to mouth at Cobbs
Pearl River   Pickens Creek       504112    Leake           Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Price Creek         519512    Pearl River     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with W. Hobolochitto

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Polkville from headwaters to mouth at Strong
Pearl River   Purvis Creek        511711    Rankin, Smith   Use Support     Impairment      River

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to confluence with Simmons
Pearl River   Rials Creek         512712    Simpson         Use Support     Impairment      Branch

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      At St Ann from headwaters to MWS 5070 boundary
Pearl River   Shiola Creek        507111    Leake           Use Support     Impairment      at St Ann Road

                                                            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Rockport from headwaters to mouth at the Pearl
Pearl River   Steel Creek         513511    Copiah          Use Support     Impairment      River


                                                                           34
                Water Body         Water                 Impaired
     Basin                                     County                       Pollutant                        Location
                  Name            Body Id                  Use

                                                        Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Forkville from headwaters to mouth at Coffee
Pearl River   Sugar Bogue         507612    Scott       Use Support     Impairment      Bogue

                                            Choctaw,    Aquatic Life    Biological      Near McCool from confluence with Robinson Branch
Pearl River   Tibby Creek         505811    Attala      Use Support     Impairment      to MWS 5056 boundary

                                                        Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Ruth from MWS 5219 boundary to confluence
Pearl River   Topisaw Creek       522211    Pike        Use Support     Impairment      at Bogue Chitto

                                                        Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Town Creek          503211    Leake       Use Support     Impairment      At Carthage from headwaters to the Pearl River

                                                        Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Santa Rosa from headwaters to confluence with
Pearl River   Turtle Skin Creek   520511    Hancock     Use Support     Impairment      Mikes River
              Unnamed
              Tributary To                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Summit from headwaters to mouth at Clear
Pearl River   Clear Creek         521513    Pike        Use Support     Impairment      Creek
              Unnamed
              Tributary To                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Pearl River   Tallahaga Creek     500712    Winston     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tallahaga Creek

              Upper Little                  Lamar,      Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Graves Creek to mouth at Pearl
Pearl River   Creek               517011    Marion      Use Support     Impairment      River

              White Sand                    Jefferson   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Little White Sand Creek
Pearl River   Creek               516111    Davis       Use Support     Impairment      (Jaybird Creek) to mouth at Pearl River

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Bala Chitto Creek   614111    Pike        Use Support     Impairment      From MWS 6140 boundary to state line

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Turkey Creek to confluence
Independent   Bayou Pierre        601611    Copiah      Use Support     Impairment      with White Oak Creek


                                                                       35
                Water Body    Water                 Impaired
     Basin                                County                       Pollutant                        Location
                  Name       Body Id                  Use

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Bear Creek     610514    Wilkinson   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Buffalo River

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Beaver Creek   608312    Wilkinson   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Homochitto River

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to confluence with North Fork
Independent   Bolls Creek    604611    Jefferson   Use Support     Impairment      Coles Creek

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Booths Creek   602813    Claiborne   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Bayou Pierre

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Woodville from headwaters to mouth at Buffalo
Independent   Browns Creek   609612    Wilkinson   Use Support     Impairment      River

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Busy Corner from headwaters to mouth at West
Independent   Days Creek     612312    Amite       Use Support     Impairment      Fork Amite Creek

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near White Apple from headwaters to mouth at
Independent   Dry Bayou      608611    Franklin    Use Support     Impairment      Caney Branch

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      At Garden City from headwaters to mouth at
Independent   Dry Creek      608211    Franklin    Use Support     Impairment      Homochitto River

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Dry Creek      608111    Wilkinson   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Homochitto River

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence of Stampley Creek and Compton
Independent   Folkes Creek   605011    Jefferson   Use Support     Impairment      Creek to mouth at South Fork Coles Creek

South                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Union Church from headwaters to mouth at
Independent   Garret Creek   603811    Jefferson   Use Support     Impairment      Foster Creek


                                                                  36
                Water Body        Water                  Impaired
     Basin                                    County                        Pollutant                        Location
                  Name           Body Id                   Use

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      At Vicksburg from MWS 6902 boundary at Fisher
Independent   Hatcher Bayou      690411    Warren       Use Support     Impairment      Ferry Road to mouth at Hennesy Bayou
                                           Amite,
South                                      Franklin,    Aquatic Life                    From MWS 6074 Boundary to the confluence with
Independent   Homochitto River   607812    Wilkinson    Use Support     pH              Dry Creek

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Fairchilds Creek to confluence
Independent   Mud Island Creek   604811    Jefferson    Use Support     Impairment      with North Fork Coles Creek

South                                      Claiborne,   Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Alcorn from impoundment in headwaters to
Independent   Muddy Bayou        600212    Jefferson    Use Support     Impairment      mouth at Dowd Creek

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Bude from headwaters to mouth at Homochitto
Independent   North Dry Creek    606112    Franklin     Use Support     Impairment      River

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Redbone Creek to mouth at
Independent   Paces Bayou        690311    Warren       Use Support     Impairment      Hennesy Bayou

South         Pickneyville                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pickneyville from headwaters to mouth at Little
Independent   Creek              611211    Wilkinson    Use Support     Impairment      Bayou Sara

South         Saint Catherines                          Aquatic Life    Biological      At Natchez from confluence with Melvin Bayou to
Independent   Creek              600611    Adams        Use Support     Impairment      mouth at Mississippi River

South         Saint Catherines                          Aquatic Life    Biological      At Natchez from headwaters to confluence with
Independent   Creek              600511    Adams        Use Support     Impairment      Melvin Bayou

South                                                   Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Swafford Creek to mouth at
Independent   Sandy Creek        608811    Adams        Use Support     Impairment      Homochitto Creek

South                                      Amite,       Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent   Stafford Creek     613212    Wilkinson    Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Comite Creek


                                                                       37
                    Water Body       Water                  Impaired
     Basin                                       County                        Pollutant                        Location
                      Name          Body Id                   Use

South                                                      Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Carlisle from headwaters to mouth at Bayou
Independent       Storm Creek       602811    Claiborne    Use Support     Impairment      Pierre

South             West Fork                                Aquatic Life    Biological
Independent       Thompson Creek    611411    Wilkinson    Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to LA state line

South                                         Jefferson,   Aquatic Life    Biological      At Tillman from headwaters to MWS 6035 boundary
Independent       Willis Creek      603411    Claiborne    Use Support     Impairment      near Tillman Road bridge

South                                                      Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Rosetta from headwaters mouth at Homochitto
Independent       Zeigler Creek     607811    Franklin     Use Support     Impairment      River

                                                           Aquatic Life                    Near Burnstown from Unnamed Tributary north of
Tennessee River   Bear Creek        701111    Tishomingo   Use Support     pH              County Road 86 to Alabama

Tombigbee                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to confluence with Little
River             Alamuchee Creek   818311    Lauderdale   Use Support     Impairment      Alamuchee Creek

Tombigbee                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological
River             Alamuchee Creek   818411    Lauderdale   Use Support     Impairment      From Little Alamuchee Creek to MS/AL state line

Tombigbee                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological
River             Ash Creek         816012    Noxubee      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River

Tombigbee                                                  Aquatic Life    Biological
River             Black Creek       810013    Lowndes      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to end near MWS 8207 boundary

Tombigbee                                     Lee,         Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Mooreville from headwaters to confluence with
River             Boguefala Creek   819211    Itawamba     Use Support     Impairment      Greenwood Creek
                                              Lee,
Tombigbee                                     Itawamba,    Aquatic Life    Biological      At Richmond from headwaters to mouth at Boguefala
River             Boguegaba Creek   802711    Monroe       Use Support     Impairment      Creek


                                                                          38
              Water Body      Water                    Impaired
    Basin                                 County                          Pollutant                       Location
                Name         Body Id                     Use

Tombigbee                              Oktibbeha,     Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Browning Creek   812913    Noxubee        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River
                                                                                      Near Greenwood Springs from confluence with
Tombigbee   Buttahatchee                              Aquatic Life                    Sipsey Creek to MWS 8068 boundary near
River       River            806711    Monroe         Use Support     pH              confluence with Alsup Creek

Tombigbee                              Chickasaw,     Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Cane Creek       807411    Clay           Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Houlka Creek

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Casey Creek      800812    Prentiss       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Donivan Creek

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Houston from headwaters to mouth at Houlka
River       Chico Creek      820912    Chickasaw      Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Tombigbee   Chinchahoma                               Aquatic Life
River       Creek            812811    Oktibbeha      Use Support     Sediment        From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Little Coonewah Creek to
River       Coonewah Creek   805311    Lee            Use Support     Impairment      mouth at Town Creek

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Dry Creek        804214    Clay, Monroe   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Town Creek

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological      Near West Point from headwaters to mouth at Town
River       Fuller Creek     804112    Monroe, Clay   Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Tombigbee                              Chickasaw,     Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Goodfood Creek   807012    Pontotoc       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Chuquatonchee Creek

Tombigbee                                             Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Greens Creek     810312    Lowndes        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth of Tombigbee River


                                                                     39
              Water Body         Water                  Impaired
    Basin                                    County                        Pollutant                         Location
                Name            Body Id                   Use

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Total           Near Starkville from headwaters to the Noxubee
River       Hollis Creek        812211    Oktibbeha    Use Support     Nitrogen        River

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Total           Near Starkville from headwaters to the Noxubee
River       Hollis Creek        812211    Oktibbeha    Use Support     Phosphorus      River

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From Unnamed Trib near Mount Pleasant Church to
River       Howard Creek        810011    Lowndes      Use Support     Impairment      mouth at Luxapallila Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Plantersville from headwaters to mouth at Town
River       Leeper Creek        805112    Lee          Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Little Wolf Creek   818812    Prentiss     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Wolf Creek
                                                                       Organic
                                                                       Enrichment /
                                                                       Low
Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Dissolved
River       Loakfoma Lake       812914    Noxubee      Use Support     Oxygen          Near Oktoc near dam

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life
River       Loakfoma Lake       812914    Noxubee      Use Support     pH              Near Oktoc near dam

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Mhoons Valley from headwaters to mouth at
River       Long Branch         808312    Clay         Use Support     Impairment      Line Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Long Branch         808512    Oktibbeha    Use Support     Impairment      Near Starkville from headwaters to Trim Cane Creek

Tombigbee                                 Chickasaw,   Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Long Creek          807612    Clay         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Houlka Creek




                                                                      40
              Water Body         Water                     Impaired
    Basin                                    County                           Pollutant                        Location
                Name            Body Id                      Use

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life                    At Steens from Alabama state line (including
River       Luxapallila Creek   821611    Lowndes         Use Support     pH              tributary) to confluence with Yellow Creek

Tombigbee                                 Lee,            Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Mantachie Creek     801611    Itawamba        Use Support     Impairment      At Mantachie from headwaters to Hwy 371

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Mcgee Creek         808913    Clay, Monroe    Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tibbee Creek

Tombigbee   Mineral Springs                               Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Branch              817312    Kemper          Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth of Blackwater Creek

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Minga Branch        806612    Monroe          Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Mill Creek

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      At Columbus from headwaters to the Tombigbee
River       Moore Creek         819611    Lowndes         Use Support     Impairment      River

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Mubby Creek         820011    Pontotoc        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Chiwapa Creek

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Columbus from headwaters to the Ten-Tom
River       Oak Slush Creek     819612    Lowndes         Use Support     Impairment      Waterway

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Okeelala Creek      801011    Prentiss, Lee   Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Twentymile Creek

Tombigbee                                                 Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Osborne Creek       800912    Prentiss        Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Twentymile Creek

Tombigbee                                 Lee,            Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Mantachie from headwaters to mouth at
River       Puncheon Creek      801613    Itawamba        Use Support     Impairment      Mantachie Creek


                                                                         41
              Water Body     Water                  Impaired
    Basin                               County                         Pollutant                        Location
                Name        Body Id                   Use

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near County Road 23 from headwaters to mouth at
River       Ray Branch      801912    Itawamba     Use Support     Impairment      Gum Creek

Tombigbee                             Lee,         Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Mantachie from headwaters to mouth at
River       Sand Creek      801612    Itawamba     Use Support     Impairment      Mantachie Creek

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Sand Creek      804811    Lee          Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Mud Creek

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Sand Creek      821212    Clay         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Old Field Creek

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life
River       Shaw Creek      812313    Oktibbeha    Use Support     Sediment        From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River

Tombigbee                             Lowndes,     Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Shotbag Creek   813012    Noxubee      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life                    Near Vinton from headwaters to confluence with
River       Spring Creek    804213    Monroe       Use Support     Sediment        Hang Kettle Creek

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life                    Near Westpoint from headwaters to Ten-Tom
River       Spring Creek    809312    Clay         Use Support     Sediment        Waterway

Tombigbee   Standing Reed             Chickasaw,   Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Creek           808011    Clay         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Little Cane Creek

Tombigbee                             Noxubee,     Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Sun Creek       822011    Winston      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Noxubee River

Tombigbee                                          Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Tadpole Creek   803112    Monroe       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to Aberdeen Lake


                                                                  42
              Water Body       Water                    Impaired
    Basin                                  County                          Pollutant                        Location
                Name          Body Id                     Use

Tombigbee   Talking Warrior                            Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Creek             812711    Oktibbeha      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to MWS 8128 boundary

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to confluence with Hang Kettle
River       Town Creek        804111    Monroe, Clay   Use Support     Impairment      Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Hang Kettle Creek to mouth at
River       Town Creek        804211    Clay           Use Support     Impairment      Tenn-Tom Waterway

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Town Creek        808912    Clay           Use Support     Impairment      At West Point from headwaters to Tibbee Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Tulip Creek       804912    Lee            Use Support     Impairment      At Tupelo from headwaters to mouth at Town Creek
            Unnamed
Tombigbee   Tributary To                               Aquatic Life    Sediment,       Near Stephens from headwaters to mouth at Catawpa
River       Catalpa Creek     809012    Lowndes        Use Support     TN, TP          Creek
            Unnamed
Tombigbee   Tributary To                               Aquatic Life                    Near Artesia from headwaters to mouth at gilmer
River       Gilmer Creek      810412    Lowndes        Use Support     Sediment        Creek

Tombigbee                               Lowndes,       Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Wet Water Creek   813812    Noxubee        Use Support     Impairment      Near Brooksville from headwaters to Noxubee River

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Wolf Creek        803412    Monroe         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Mattubby Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Wolf Creek        818811    Prentiss       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Twentymile Creek

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological
River       Woodruff Creek    808212    Clay           Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Underwood Creek


                                                                      43
                Water Body       Water                  Impaired
    Basin                                    County                        Pollutant                        Location
                  Name          Body Id                   Use

Tombigbee                                 Winston,     Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Betheden from headwaters to the Noxubee
River         Yellow Creek      813211    Noxubee      Use Support     Impairment      River

Tombigbee                                              Aquatic Life    Biological      At Tupelo from confluence of Bridge Creek to
River         Yonaba Creek      804511    Lee          Use Support     Impairment      confluence of Town Creek

                                          Chickasaw,   Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Atlanta from headwaters to mouth at Topashaw
Yazoo River   Bear Creek        913812    Calhoun      Use Support     Impairment      Creek Canal

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Unnamed Tributary near MWS
Yazoo River   Beartail Creek    909712    Tate         Use Support     Impairment      9096 boundary to mouth at Coldwater River

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Duck Hill from headwaters to confluence with
Yazoo River   Big Bogue         917311    Montgomery   Use Support     Impairment      Wilkins Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Tarrey Creek near MWS 9215
Yazoo River   Black Creek       921713    Holmes       Use Support     Impairment      boundary to confluence with Harland Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Bliss Creek       923411    Warren       Use Support     Impairment      Near Redwood from headwaters to the Yazoo River

                                          Calhoun,     Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Buck Creek        913813    Webster      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Topashaw Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Grenada from headwaters to Grenada Lake
Yazoo River   Butputter Creek   914511    Grenada      Use Support     Impairment      Flood Pool

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Cherry Creek      901212    Pontotoc     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Lappatubby Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Cowpen Creek      915312    Calhoun      Use Support     Impairment      Near Banner from headwaters to the Skuna River


                                                                      44
                Water Body        Water                    Impaired
    Basin                                     County                          Pollutant                        Location
                  Name           Body Id                     Use

              Fannegusha                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Ituma from Carroll/ Holmes County line To
Yazoo River   Creek              920911    Holmes         Use Support     Impairment      MWS 9211 boundary

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Oxford from headwaters to mouth at Yellow
Yazoo River   Fourmile Branch    907211    Lafayette      Use Support     Impairment      Leaf Creek

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Hubbard Creek      933711    Tallahatchie   Use Support     Impairment      Near Tandy from headwaters to Southlake Bayou

              James Wolf                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 9106 boundary at Hwy 4 to mouth at
Yazoo River   Creek              910512    Tate           Use Support     Impairment      Hickahala Creek

              James Wolf                                  Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Creek              910611    Tate           Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to MWS 9105 boundary at Hwy 4
                                                                          Organic
                                                          Aquatic Life    Enrichment/
Yazoo River   Lake Beulah        990411    Bolivar        Use Support     Low DO          Entire lake near Beulah
                                                                          Chlorides,
                                                                          Organic
                                                          Aquatic Life    Enrichment/
Yazoo River   Lake Henry         938312    Leflore        Use Support     Low DO          Just South of Belzoni off Hwy 49W

                                           Montgomery,    Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Duckworth from headwaters to confluence with
Yazoo River   Little Bogue       916911    Webster        Use Support     Impairment      Caffee Branch

                                                          Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Caggee Branch to confluence
Yazoo River   Little Bogue       917011    Montgomery     Use Support     Impairment      with Powell Creek

                                           Montgomery,    Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Powell Creek to Batapan
Yazoo River   Little Bogue       917111    Grenada        Use Support     Impairment      Bogue

              Little Coldwater                            Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Creek              909112    Marshall       Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Coldwater River

                                                                         45
                Water Body        Water                 Impaired
    Basin                                     County                       Pollutant                        Location
                  Name           Body Id                  Use

              Little Horse Pen             Calhoun,    Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Creek              914313    Grenada     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Horsepen Creek
              Little
              Tallahatchie                             Aquatic Life    Biological      From confluence with Mud Creek to MWS 9019
Yazoo River   River              901711    Union       Use Support     Impairment      boundary
              Little
              Tallahatchie                 Union,      Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 9017 boundary to confluence with Fice
Yazoo River   River              901911    Lafayette   Use Support     Impairment      Creek

              Little Topasaw               Webster,    Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Creek              913712    Chickasaw   Use Support     Impairment      Near Woodland from headwaters to Topasaw Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Enterprise from headwaters to Little
Yazoo River   Lockes Creek       901811    Union       Use Support     Impairment      Tallahatchie River

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Pontotoc from headwaters to confluence with
Yazoo River   Lyon Creek         901111    Pontotoc    Use Support     Impairment      Lappatubby Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Medlock Branch     902514    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at North Tippah Creek

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Vardaman from headwaters to mouth at
Yazoo River   Meridian Creek     913312    Calhoun     Use Support     Impairment      Yalobusha River

                                                       Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Moore Bayou        931912    Coahoma     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to confluence with Cassidy Bayou

              North Tippah                             Aquatic Life                    Near Ripley from headwaters confluence with
Yazoo River   Creek              902515    Tippah      Use Support     Sediment        Medlock Branch

              North Tippah                             Aquatic Life                    Near Ripley from confluence with Medlock Branch
Yazoo River   Creek              902512    Tippah      Use Support     Sediment        to mouth at Tippah River


                                                                      46
                Water Body        Water                     Impaired
    Basin                                     County                           Pollutant                        Location
                  Name           Body Id                      Use

              Okachickima                                  Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Hardy from headwaters to Grenada Lake Flood
Yazoo River   Creek              916211    Yalobusha       Use Support     Impairment      Pool

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      At Ecru from confluence with Popular Springs Creek
Yazoo River   Okannatie Creek    900911    Union           Use Support     Impairment      to MWS 9010 boundary at Highway 15 bridge

                                           Sunflower,      Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Doddsville from headwaters to mouth at Quiver
Yazoo River   Pecan Bayou        938511    Leflore         Use Support     Impairment      River

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Pelucia Creek      919311    Carroll         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to MWS 9192 boundary

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Oil City from headwaters to mouth at O'Neal
Yazoo River   Perry Creek        922912    Yazoo           Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Yazoo City from MWS 9223 boundary to
Yazoo River   Piney Creek        922411    Yazoo           Use Support     Impairment      confluence with Yazoo River

                                           Desoto,         Aquatic Life    Biological      From MWS 9101 boundary to mouth at Pigeon Roost
Yazoo River   Red Banks Creek    910212    Marshall        Use Support     Impairment      Creek

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Savannah Creek     915214    Calhoun         Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Lucknuck Creek

                                           Tallahatchie,   Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Shelton Creek      908411    Panola          Use Support     Impairment      Near Crowder from headwaters to Yocona River

                                           Calhoun,        Aquatic Life    Biological      From headwaters to MWS 9139 boundary at
Yazoo River   Shutispear Creek   914011    Webster         Use Support     Impairment      Yalobusha River flood plain

                                                           Aquatic Life    Biological      At Bruce from Persimmon Creek to MWS 9156
Yazoo River   Skuna River        915413    Calhoun         Use Support     Impairment      boundary


                                                                          47
                Water Body     Water                 Impaired
    Basin                                  County                       Pollutant                       Location
                  Name        Body Id                  Use

              South Tippah                          Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Creek           902513    Tippah      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Tippah River

                                                    Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Spring Branch   941411    Holmes      Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Millstone Bayou
              Unnamed
              Tributary To
              Little                                                                Near Pinedale from headwaters to confluence with
              Tallahatchie                          Aquatic Life    Biological      Unnamed Tributary just downstream of County Road
Yazoo River   River           901713    Union       Use Support     Impairment      46

                                        De Soto,    Aquatic Life    Biological      Near Prichard from headwaters to Lake Comorant
Yazoo River   Whites Creek    930111    Tunica      Use Support     Impairment      Bayou

                                                    Aquatic Life    Biological
Yazoo River   Yoda Creek      915414    Calhoun     Use Support     Impairment      From headwaters to mouth at Skuna River




                                                                   48
REFERENCES
MDEQ. 2003. Development and Application of the Mississippi Benthic Index of Stream Quality
(M-BISQ). Office of Pollution Control.

MDEQ. 2018. MISSISSIPPI CALM (Consolidated Assessment and Listing Methodology)
2014Assessment and Listing Cycle. Office of Pollution Control.

MDEQ. 2006. NRCS State Watershed Map and Table. Office of Pollution Control.

MDEQ. 2012. State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal
Waters. Office of Pollution Control.

MDEQ. 2006. USGS and MDEQ State 12 Digit Watershed Atlas. Office of Pollution Control.




                                              49
APPENDIX A. ATLAS
Maps are included in Appendix A for each basin. Streams shown in blue are impaired streams.
In some river basins, the maps were split into 8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes to better fit the
page. Basins with no current listings are not included.




                                             50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
APPENDIX B. ATLAS OF TMDL SUCCESSES




                        69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
