 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 887 Designation of Arsenic as a Priority
Chemical and Regulation of Arsenic in Children's Products (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Chapter 887: DESIGNATION of ARSENIC AS A PRIORITY
CHEMICAL AND REGULATION OF ARSENIC in Children's
Products

SUMMARY: This chapter designates arsenic as a priority chemical and
requires reporting for certain product categories that contain arsenic.

1. Applicability

A. This chapter applies to manufacturers or distributors of children's
products containing intentionally-added arsenic that are manufactured,
sold, offered for sale or distributed for sale in the State of Maine.

B. Exemptions

(1) Used products. This chapter does not apply to the chemical in used
products.

(2) Food and beverage packaging. A container or packaging for a food
or beverage product is exempt from the requirements of this chapter, unless
that product is intentionally marketed or intended for the use of children
under three years of age.

(3) Transportation. The requirements of this chapter do not apply to
motor vehicles as defined in Title 29-A, section 101, subsection 42 or
watercraft as defined in Title 12, section 13001, subsection 28 or their
component parts, except that the use of cadmium in detachable car seats is
not exempt.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this chapter, the definitions found
in 06-096 CMR Chapter 880, Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's
Products, section 1 apply. The following terms, as used in this chapter, have
the following meanings:

A. Arsenic. "Arsenic" means the semi-metallic element symbolized as "As"
and having a Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number (CAS RN) of 7440-
38-2.

B. Bedding. "Bedding" means materials used to provide a designated space
for a child to sleep, including but not limited to bed linen such as a sheet or
pillow, vital bed components such as a mattress and mattress cover, and bed
framing.

C. Child care article. "Child care article" means a consumer product
designed or intended by the manufacturer to facilitate sleep or the feeding of
children or to help children with sucking or teething.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 887 Designation of Arsenic as a Priority
Chemical and Regulation of Arsenic in Children's Products (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

D. Clothing. "Clothing" means an article of cloth or fiber, woven or
otherwise assembled, into a material suitable for wearing on a child's body
(examples include but are not limited to sleepwear, pants, shirts, and
outerwear such as gloves or hats).

E. Cosmetics. "Cosmetics" means a product used on a child's body,
typically on the skin, eyes, or nails, for the purpose of beautification or
adornment.

F. Craft Supplies. "Craft Supplies" means any art supply sold for the use
of a child under the age of 12 years for the purpose of making something in a
carefully skillful way using one's hands.

G. Embellishment. "Embellishment" means a decorative detail meant to
be worn by a child (i.e. in hair, on the skin, or on clothing).

H. Footwear. "Footwear" means an article intended to be worn on a child's
feet, such as shoes or slippers.

I. Game. "Game" means a product sold for use by a child which is either for
entertainment or educational purposes and requires that the user touch
various components.

J. Jewelry. "Jewelry" means decorative objects or ornament worn on a
person for adornment, such as a necklace, bracelet, earrings, or ring (see
also "Embellishment").

K. Occasion Supply. "Occasion Supply" means items used as specialty
supplies for an atypical event as either decoration on a person (i.e. costume)
or as party favors (such as souvenirs, noise makers or party hats used at
juvenile events such as birthday parties) intended to be touched by the user.

L. Personal Accessory. "Personal Accessory" means an item worn on a
person for the purpose of emphasizing a style.

M. Personal Care Product. "Personal Care Product" means a product
intended to be applied to a child's body for hygienic care or treatment (such
as skin, hair, eyes, ears, mouth, or nails), including but not limited to
creams, soaps, oils, bath additives, mouthwash, powders, or sprays.

N. Safety Seat. "Safety Seat" means a device, except Type I or Type II seat
belts, which meets the federal of child restraint system within 49 CFR
section 571.213 (Oct. 1, 2013), and is designed for use in a motor vehicle or
aircraft to restrain, seat, or position children who weigh 30 kilograms (kg) or
less, and includes backless child restraint systems commonly referred to as a
booster seat.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 887 Designation of Arsenic as a Priority
Chemical and Regulation of Arsenic in Children's Products (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

O. School Supply. "School Supply" means an item commonly used by a
student in the course of their education such as pencil cases, rulers, specialty
bags, or lunchboxes.

P. Toy. "Toy" means a consumer product designed or intended by the
manufacturer for a child under the age of 12 years for use by the child when
the child plays. "Toy" does not include helmets, masks, goggles or other
personal protective equipment designed to protect the wearer's body from
injury during sports and recreation activities.

3. Designation of arsenic as a priority chemical

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. Arsenic is present on
the list of chemicals of high concern published by the department under 38
M.R.S.A. §1693-A.

NOTE: To view the full list, go to:
www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/highconcern/index.html .

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of
arsenic as a priority chemical, as set forth under 38 M.R.S.A. §1694, have
been met:

(1) Arsenic is known to cause cancer in humans, is classified as a
reproductive toxicantand has met the criteria listed in §§ 1693(1) and 1693-
A(2) for listing as a chemical of concern and chemical of high concern
respectively;

(2) Arsenic has been found through biomonitoring to be present in humans;

(3) Arsenic has been found through sampling and analysis to be present in
household dust, indoor air, drinking water or elsewhere in the home
environment; and

(4) Arsenic is present in a consumer product used or present in the home.

4. Information submission required

A. Bedding, Childcare Articles, Clothing, Cosmetics, Craft
Supplies, Footwear, Games, Jewelry and Embellishments, Safety
Seat, Occasion Supplies, Personal Accessories, Personal Care
Product, School Supplies, Toys

(1)No later than 180 days after the effective date of this chapter, the
manufacturer of any bedding, childcare articles, clothing, cosmetics, craft
supplies, footwear, games, jewelry and embellishments, safety seats,
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 887 Designation of Arsenic as a Priority
Chemical and Regulation of Arsenic in Children's Products (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

occasion supplies, personal accessories, personal care products, school
supplies, or toys, any of which are intended for use by a child under the age
of 12 years and that contain intentionally-added arsenic shall report to the
department the following information:

(a) The name and address of the manufacturer and the name, address, and
phone number of a contact person for the manufacturer;

(b) A description of the product or products containing arsenic, including
the overall size of the product and/or the component of the product that
contains arsenic and whether the product or arsenic -containing component
of the product, can be placed in the mouth. (If a reportable item is smaller
than 5 centimeters in one dimension it is regarded as mouthable);

(c) The number of items sold or distributed in Maine or nationally;

(d) The amount of arsenic in the product reported;

(e) The function of arsenic in the product reported; and

(f) Any other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting
of the chemical, such as relevant independent scientific study on exposure
specific to the amount of chemical present in the finished product reported
or product of similar functionality.

(2) If the sale of the regulated children's product does not commence until
after the 180-day reporting period ends, the written notice required under
section 4(A)(1) must be made within 30 days of the sale of the children's
product within the State of Maine.

(3) Failure to provide the required information to the Department by the
date required may result in enforcement action consistent with 38 M.R.S.A.
§1699-A.

NOTE: Upon review of information submitted pursuant to section 4 of this
chapter, the commissioner may request that a manufacturer clarify the
submittal, supplement incomplete information or provide additional
information not specified in this chapter if the commissioner determines
that the information is needed for the department to complete its evaluation
of the priority chemical. See department rules, 06-096 CMR 880(5)(D); see
also 38 M.R.S.A. §1695(2).

5. Reporting Fee. A one-time reporting fee will be assessed in accordance
with Department rule, 06-096 CMR 881(3).
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 887 Designation of Arsenic as a Priority
Chemical and Regulation of Arsenic in Children's Products (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

6. Department Address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
reporting forms. Use the following address to send all correspondence to the
department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection

Bureau of Remediation and Waste Management, Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:

http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/index.html .

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. §§ 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

June 2, 2014 - filing 2014-109
