06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 888 Designation of Four Members of the
Chemical Class Phthalates as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine
                    Rules (2021 Edition))

Chapter 888: DESIGNATION of FOUR members of the chemical
class phthalates AS PRIORITY CHEMICALS

SUMMARY: This chapter designates four members of the chemical class
phthalates as priority chemicals and requires reporting for certain children's
products that contain one or more of these regulated phthalates.

1. Applicability

A. This chapter applies to manufacturers or distributors of certain children's
products containing intentionally added di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP),
dibutyl phthalate (DBP), benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP), or diethyl phthalate
(DEP), that are for sale in Maine.

B. Exemptions

(1) Used products. This chapter does not apply to regulated phthalates in
used products.

(2) Food and beverage packaging. A container or packaging for a food
or beverage product is exempt from the requirements of this chapter, unless
that product is intentionally marketed or intended for use by children under
three years of age.

(3) Transportation. The requirements of this chapter do not apply to
motor vehicles as defined in 29-A M.R.S.A. §101(42) or watercraft as defined
in 12 M.R.S.A. §13001(28) or their component parts, except that the use of
regulated phthalates in detachable car seats is not exempt.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this chapter, the definitions found
in Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's Products, 06-096 CMR ch.
880(1) apply. The following terms, as used in this chapter, have the
following meanings:

A. Clothing and footwear. "Clothing" means an article of cloth or fiber,
woven or otherwise assembled, into a material suitable for wearing on the
body of a child under the age of 12 years, and their component parts;
examples include but are not limited to sleepwear, pants, shirts, and
outerwear such as gloves, hats, or raingear. "Footwear" means an article
intended to be worn on the feet of a child under the age of 12 years, such as
shoes or slippers.

B. Craft Supplies. "Craft Supplies" means any art supply sold for the use
of a child under the age of 12 years for the purpose of making something in a
carefully skillful way using one's hands.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 888 Designation of Four Members of the
Chemical Class Phthalates as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine
                    Rules (2021 Edition))

C. Building and home maintenance products. "Building and home
maintenance products" means a children's product used in the construction,
repair, or maintenance of the inside of a residence, child care facility or
school; or such products used for outdoor residential use, if a child under 12
years of age may have direct contact with the product

D. Cosmetics and personal care products. "Cosmetics and personal
care products" means a children's product used on the body of a child under
the age of 12 years, typically on the skin, eyes, or nails, for the purpose of
beautification or adornment and a children's product intended to be applied
to a child's body for hygienic care or treatment (such as skin, hair, eyes, ears,
mouth, or nails), including but not limited to creams, soaps, oils, bath
additives, mouthwash, powders, or sprays.

E. Household and commercial cleaning products. "Household and
commercial cleaning products" means soaps, detergents and other children's
products designed for fabric care, dish and other ware washing or surface
cleaning in a residence, child care facility or school.

F. Household furniture and furnishings. "Household furniture and
furnishings" means children's products that are large, movableproducts
used to make a space livable, including but not limited to beds, mattresses,
couches, tables, desks, chairs, and storage units, and other children's
products intended for use as decorative accessories for a house or room,
including but not limited to bedding, textiles, clocks, ornaments, pictures,
mirrors and frames.

G. Personal accessories and jewelry. "Personal accessories and
jewelry" means children's products worn on a child under the age of 12 years
for the purpose of emphasizing a style, including decorative objects or
ornament worn for adornment, such as a necklace, bracelet, earrings, or
rings.

H. Regulated Phthalates. For the purposes of this chapter, "regulated
phthalates" means any one of the following: di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP), with a CAS number of 117-81-7; dibutyl phthalate (DBP), with a
CAS number of 84-74-2; benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP), with a CAS number
of 85-68-7; and diethyl phthalate (DEP), with a CAS number of 84-66-2.

NOTE: For the definition of "children's product" see Toxic Chemicals in
Children's Products, 38 M.R.S.A. §1691(7) or Department rule, 06-096 CMR
ch. 880(1)(G).

3. Designation of four regulated phthalates as priority chemicals
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 888 Designation of Four Members of the
Chemical Class Phthalates as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine
                    Rules (2021 Edition))

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. The regulated
phthalates are present on the list of chemicals of high concern published by
the Department under 38 M.R.S.A. §1693-A, as of the effective date of this
chapter.

NOTE: To view the full list of chemicals of high concern, go to:
http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/highconcern/index.html .

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of the
four regulated phthalates as priority chemicals, as set forth under 38
M.R.S.A. §1694, have been met as documented in the basis statement
accompanying this chapter:

(1) Regulated phthalates have been found through biomonitoring to be
present in human bodily tissues or fluids;

(2) Regulated phthalates have been found through sampling and analysis to
be present in household dust and indoor air; and

(3) Regulated phthalates have been found to be present in consumer
products which are used or present in the home.

4. Information submission required

A. Product categories. Manufacturers of children's products that contain
intentionally added regulated phthalates, and which fall into the following
categories, must submit information to the Department pursuant to section
4(B) of this chapter:

(1) Clothing and footwear;

(2) CraftSupplies;

(3) Building and home maintenance products;

(4) Cosmetic and personal care products;

(5) Household and commercial cleaning products;

(6) Household furniture and furnishings; and

(7) Personal accessories and jewelry.

B. Information required. No later than 180 days after the effective date
of this chapter, the manufacturer of a children's product, which falls within
the categories listed in section 4(A) of this chapter, that contains
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 888 Designation of Four Members of the
Chemical Class Phthalates as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine
                    Rules (2021 Edition))

intentionally added regulated phthalates shall report to the Department the
following information:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the name, address, and
phone number of a contact person for the manufacturer;

(2) A description of the manufacturer's product or products containing
regulated phthalates, including the overall size of the product and/or the
component of the product that contains the regulated phthalate and whether
the product or regulated phthalate-containing component of the product can
be placed in the mouth (if a reportable item is smaller than 5 centimeters in
one dimension, it is regarded as mouthable);

(3) The amount of regulated phthalates in each unit of the product reported;

(4) The function of regulated phthalates in the product reported;

(5) The number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally,
in accordance with Department rule 06-096 CMR ch. 880(5)(A)(2);

(6) Any other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting
of the regulated phthalates, such as relevant independent scientific study on
exposure specific to the amount of regulated phthalates present in the
finished product reported or product of similar functionality. Such
information may include an assessment that has already been performed by
the manufacturer of the availability, cost, feasibility and/or performance,
including potential for harm to human health and the environment, of
alternatives to regulated phthalates and the reason regulated phthalates are
used in the manufacture of the reported children's product in lieu of
identified alternatives.

C. Information Not Submitted within 180-day Deadline. If the sale
of the regulated children's product does not commence until after the 180-
day reporting period ends, the written notice required under section 4(B)
must be submitted within 30 days of the sale of the children's product within
the State of Maine. Failure to provide the required information to the
Department by the date required may result in enforcement action
consistent with 38 M.R.S.A. §1699-A.

NOTE: A regulated entity may request a waiver of the reporting
requirements in this chapter for reasons set forth in Department rule 06-
096 CMR ch. 880(5)(C). Upon review of information submitted pursuant to
this chapter the commissioner may request that a manufacturer clarify the
submittal, supplement incomplete information or provide additional
information not specified in this chapter if the commissioner determines
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 888 Designation of Four Members of the
Chemical Class Phthalates as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine
                    Rules (2021 Edition))

that the information is needed for the Department to complete its evaluation
of the priority chemical. See Department rules, 06-096 CMR ch. 880(5)(D);
see also 38 M.R.S.A. §1695(2).

5. Reporting Fee. A one-time reporting fee will be assessed in accordance
with Department rule, 06-096 CMR ch. 881(3).

NOTE: Any person wishing to contest the amount of a fee imposed under
this section must pay the fee by the due date specified in the Department
invoice and file a petition in writing with the commissioner requesting a
refund. See Department rules, 06-096 CMR ch. 881(6).

6. Department Address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
reporting forms. Use the following address to send all non-electronic
correspondence to the Department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection Bureau of Remediation and
Waste Management

Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:

http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/index.html .

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. §§ 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

June 22, 2015 - filing 2015-114
