      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 857: HAZARDOUS WASTE MANIFEST REQUIREMENTS

SUMMARY: This rule establishes requirements for the use of manifests to
track the movement of hazardous waste from the point of generation to any
intermediate points and finally to its ultimate disposition and establishes
related responsibilities and liabilities of generators, transporters and owners
and operators of waste facilities for hazardous waste.

l. Legal Authority. This rule is authorized by and adopted under 38
M.R.S.A., Section 1301, et seq.

2. Preamble. It is the purpose of the Department of Environmental
Protection, consistent with legislative policy, to provide effective controls for
the management of hazardous waste in order to protect public health, safety
and welfare and the environment. This rule provides one such control by
requiring the use of a manifest to track the movement of hazardous waste
from the point of generation to any intermediate points and finally to its
ultimate disposition and by establishing related responsibilities and
liabilities of generators, transporters, and owners and operators of waste
facilities for hazardous waste.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those interim final or final regulations
revised as of July 1, 1988, as they appeared in volume 40 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR). Where specifically stated, the terms of a
referenced federal regulation are hereby adopted as terms of this rule,
except that in regulations incorporated thereby, "EPA" shall mean "the
Maine Department of Environmental Protection (DEP)" except for
references to 40 CFR 262, subpart E which means just "EPA";
"Administrator", "Regional Administrator" and "Director" shall mean "the
Maine Board of Environmental Protection or its designated representative";
and the phrase "treat, store, and/or dispose" shall mean "handle." In
addition, where the terms of federal regulations hereby incorporated by
reference differ from or are inconsistent with other terms of this Chapter or
Chapters 850-860, the more stringent of the requirements shall apply.
Other changes to regulations incorporated hereby are as expressly made in
this rule.

3. Definitions

A. Board. "Board" means the Board of Environmental Protection.

B. Department. "Department" means the Department of Environmental
Protection.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


C. Generator. "Generator" means a person whose act or process produces
a waste which is or may be hazardous.

D. Handle. "Handle" means to store, transfer, collect, separate, salvage,
process, reduce, recover, incinerate, treat or dispose of.

E. Site. "Site" means the same or geographically contiguous property which
may be divided by a public or private right-of-way, provided that the
entrance and exit between the properties is at a crossroads intersection and
access is by crossing as opposed to going along the right-of-way.
Noncontiguous properties owned by the same person but connected by a
right-of-way which he controls and to which the public does not have access
is also considered site property.

F. Transport. "Transport" means the movement of hazardous waste from
the point of generation to any intermediate points and finally to the point of
ultimate disposition. Movement of hazardous waste on the site where it is
generated or on the site of a licensed waste facility for hazardous waste is not
"transport."

G. Transporter. "Transporter" means a person who transports hazardous
waste in any quantity within, into or through the State of Maine.

H. Waste. "Waste" means any useless, unwanted or discarded substance or
material, whether or not such substance or material has any other or future
use and includes any substance or material that is spilled, leaked, pumped,
poured, emitted, emptied, or dumped onto the land or into the water or
ambient air.

4. Manifest Form. The hazardous waste manifest and recyclable
hazardous material uniform bill of lading form approved by the Board and
instructions related to the form are hereby incorporated as provisions of this
rule. All information required on the form and all related instructions are
requirements of this rule, to which penalties for non-compliance attach. The
Department may authorize an alternative form to the uniform bill of lading
for the transport of universal wastes if it contains the information required
to meet the needs of the Department.

NOTE: The Department has approved an alternative form entitled "Maine
Recyclable Material Uniform Bill of Lading" in place of the Recyclable
Hazardous Material Uniform Bill of Lading. For shipments of universal
wastes, this alternative form should be used in place of the Recyclable
Hazardous Material Uniform Bill of Lading. This alternative form is
designed to be utilized for those Maine universal wastes which are not DOT
regulated hazardous materials, as well as for any universal wastes that are
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


hazardous materials. Since the new form is an approved alternative to the
Recyclable Hazardous Material Uniform Bill of Lading, use of the alternative
form will satisfy all requirements set out in the State of Maine Hazardous
Waste Management Rules regarding use of the Recyclable Hazardous
Material Uniform Bill of Lading.

5. General Requirements

A. A generator who transports, or offers for transportation, hazardous waste
for handling shall prepare a manifest before the waste is transported.

B. A generator shall comply with the manifest requirements of 40 CFR Parts
262.20(a), 262.21, and the Appendix to 40 CFR Part 262, including the use
of a uniform hazardous waste manifest, which are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference.

NOTE: Federal regulations require that a generator obtain and use the
manifest provided by or authorized by the state to which the hazardous
waste is destined and in which the licensed hazardous waste facility is
located.

C. A generator whose waste is to be transported to a waste facility for
hazardous waste in Maine shall, in addition to all other manifest
requirements, use the manifest form(s) adopted by the Board and shall fully
complete all state-optional information required by the manifest form.

D. Each generator, transporter and owner or operator of a waste facility for
hazardous waste shall comply with all the requirements and instructions
which are specified on the manifest.

E. If the transporter is unable to deliver the hazardous waste to the
designated facility or to the alternate facility, the generator must either
designate another facility or instruct the transporter to return the waste.

6. Exceptions

A. A person may transport PCBs which are contained in a totally enclosed
manner in PCB equipment without using a manifest provided that the PCBs
are not discarded or intended to be discarded. In addition, a person who
discharges or suffers a discharge of PCBs or who generates PCB
contaminated material as a result of routine servicing of off-site PCB
containing equipment may transport that PCB waste to a facility with an
approved PCB management plan or to a Maine hazardous waste storage
facility licensed to handle PCBs without using a manifest provided that the
facility is under the control of the entity who has care or custody of or who
owns the PCBs waste.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


NOTE: The generator controlled facility which first accepts the waste shall
be the site of generation.

B. A person may transport universal wastes without using a manifest,
provided that the Uniform Bill of Lading referenced in Section 4 or an
alternative form approved by the Department, or for small universal waste
generators and central accumulation facilities the log requirements of
Section 13, are utilized. For the purposes of administering this Section,
where the rule in Sections 5, 7, 8, and 9 states "manifest" it shall be replaced
with "Manifest or Uniform Bill of Lading".

NOTE: The Department has approved an alternative form entitled "Maine
Recyclable Material Uniform Bill of Lading." For shipments of universal
wastes, this alternative form should be used in place of the Recyclable
Hazardous Material Uniform Bill of Lading. This alternative form is
designed to be utilized for those Maine universal wastes which are not DOT
regulated hazardous materials, as well as for any universal wastes that are
hazardous materials. Since the new form is an approved alternative to the
Recyclable Hazardous Material Uniform Bill of Lading, use of the alternative
form will satisfy all requirements set out in the State of Maine Hazardous
Waste Management Rules regarding use of the Recyclable Hazardous
Material Uniform Bill of Lading.

7. Manifest Requirements for Generators

NOTE: Additional requirements for generators appear in other rules of the
Board dealing with specific aspects of hazardous waste management. See,
for example, Chapter 851, Standards for Generators of Hazardous Waste;
Chapter 852, Land Disposal Restrictions; Chapter 854, Standards for
Hazardous Waste Facilities; and Chapter 856, Licensing of Hazardous
Waste Facilities.

A. A generator of hazardous waste who transports, or offers for transport,
hazardous waste for handling shall:

(l) Complete the generator portion of the manifest, including his
handwritten signature.

(a) A generator shall designate on the manifest one waste facility for
hazardous waste authorized to handle the waste covered by the manifest
under a State hazardous waste program approved by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or under the Federal hazardous waste
program.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(b) A generator may also designate on the manifest one alternate waste
facility for hazardous waste authorized to handle the waste covered by the
manifest under a State hazardous waste program approved by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or under the Federal hazardous
waste program. The waste may be delivered to the alternate facility in the
event that an emergency prevents its delivery to the primary designated
facility.

(c) If the generator is also the transporter for all or part of the waste's
transport, he shall also complete the appropriate transporter portion of the
manifest.

(d) A generator shall identify and list each waste separately on the manifest.

NOTE: Lab packs containing hazardous wastes are not exempted from this
requirement.

(2) After having obtained the transporter's handwritten acceptance
signature and date of acceptance thereon, remove the Generator copy (copy
#8), the Generator State copy (copy #7) and the Destination State copy
(copy #6) and give the remaining copies of the manifest to the transporter.

NOTE: If a continuing Transporter is used, the Generator is responsible for
supplying him with a legible photocopy of the manifest which must contain
signatures where required.

(3) Send the Destination State copy (copy #6) of the manifest to the State
where the designated facility (hazardous waste facility) is located within 7
days of the date the waste is accepted by the initial licensed transporter.

(4) Send the Generator State copy (copy #7) of the manifest to the State
where the waste was generated within 7 days of the date the waste is
accepted by the initial licensed transporter.

(5) A generator who completes a manifest other than a Maine manifest,
which does not include a Generator State copy and/or a Destination State
copy shall produce a photocopy(ies) of the Generator copy and send the
copy(ies) to the appropriate State agency(ies) in the destination and/or
generator state within seven (7) days of acceptance of the waste by a licensed
transporter.

(6) Retain the signed generator copy (copy #8) of the manifest for at least
three (3) years or until the signed generator-completed copy (copy #3) is
returned to him by the designated facility which received the waste. The
generator-completed copy (copy #3) shall be retained by the generator for at
least three (3) years.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


NOTE: The generator-completed copy (copy #3) of the manifest is the copy
signed by the generator, all transporters and the owner or operator of the
designated facility which received the waste.

(7) A generator who completes a manifest other than a Maine manifest,
which does not include a Generator State completed copy and/or a for
Destination State completed copy shall produce a photocopy(ies) of the
Generator completed copy and send the copy(ies) to the appropriate state
agency(ies) in the destination and/or generator state within seven (7) days
of the generator's receipt of the completed manifest.

B. A generator, by generating hazardous waste and initiating its transport,
agrees to its return to him. Upon return of the hazardous waste, he shall
accept any of the waste which cannot be delivered to a designated facility.
Thereafter, he shall meet all the generator requirements for the waste as if
he had generated the waste on the date of its return to him.

C. Generators who ship hazardous waste within the United States solely by
rail or water shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR Part 262.23(c)
and (d), which are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, and in
addition shall send copy #7 of the manifest to the Department and copy #6
of the manifest to the State where the designated hazardous waste facility is
located, at the same time as the manifest is sent to the designated waste
facility.

D. Generators who import hazardous waste from or export hazardous waste
to a foreign country shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR Part 262
Subparts E and F, and shall obtain and use a Maine manifest. Copies of all
notices, reports, manifests and other documents filed with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with the requirements of
these subparts shall be filed with the Department.

E. A generator who does not receive the generator-completed copy (copy
#3) from the designated waste facility within thirty-five (35) days from the
date waste was accepted by the initial transporter shall immediately notify
the Department and shall immediately undertake to track and locate the
waste, contacting the transporter(s) of the waste and the designated
facility(ies) and keeping the Department advised.

F. A generator who transports or offers for transport, hazardous waste to a
designated facility located in another state and who does not receive the
generator-completed copy (copy #3) of the manifest from the designated
facility within thirty-five (35) days from the date the waste was accepted by
the initial transporter shall, in addition to the requirements of Section 7(E)
of this rule, notify the governmental agency responsible for administering
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


the manifest system in: l) the state in which the designated facility is located
and in 2) the state in which the waste may have been delivered, or notify the

United States Environmental Protection Agency where either or both states
do not have a State hazardous waste program approved by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.

NOTE: The names and addresses of State and Federal agencies may be
obtained by calling the Department at (207) 287-2651.

G. A generator who has not received the generator-completed copy (copy
#3) of the manifest from the designated facility within forty-five (45) days
from the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter shall file a
written Exception Report with the Department. The Exception Report shall
include:

(l) A legible copy of the manifest for which the generator has not received
the generator-completed copy (copy #3); and

(2) A cover letter signed by the generator or his authorized representative
explaining the efforts that have been and are being taken to locate the waste
and the results of those efforts.

NOTE: For generators using a UBOL, the Department will initially identify
discrepancies in shipments, it is however the generator's responsibility to
resolve the discrepancies.

H. For any hazardous waste rejected at the designated and alternate facility
if designated, the generator must provide to the Department within 20 days
of such rejection a Rejection Report indicating:

(1) Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest number(s) for the rejected waste
shipments;

(2) The disposition of the rejected waste; and

(3) Any changes in the information previously supplied by the generator on
the Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest.

Copies of the Rejection Report shall be provided to the transporter(s), the
facility(s) that rejected the waste, and the appropriate regulatory agencies of
the Generator and Destination State(s).

8. Manifest Requirements for Transporters
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


NOTE: Other requirements for transporters appear in other rules of the
Board dealing with specific aspects of hazardous waste management See, for
example, Chapter 853, Licensing of Transporters of Hazardous Waste and
Chapter 854, Standards for Hazardous Waste Facilities. It should be noted
that manifest requirements are in effect for transporters as of the effective
date of this rule with- out regard to the dates established in Chapter 853 for
licensing.

A. A transporter of hazardous waste shall:

(1) Not accept hazardous waste from a generator or from another
transporter unless the waste is accompanied by its manifest, properly
completed by the generator and/or prior transporter(s), including signature
and identification numbers;

(2) Ensure that the manifest accompanies the hazardous waste;

(3) In the presence of the generator or, for subsequent transporters, the
prior transporter, complete the appropriate transporter portion of the
manifest, including handwritten acceptance signature and date of
acceptance, and immediately give a signed copy of the manifest to the
generator or prior transporter, noting any discrepancies in manifest
information;

(4) Upon delivery of the hazardous waste to another transporter or to the
designated facility:

(a) complete delivery information section of transporter portion of manifest;

(b) obtain the subsequent transporter's or the facility owner's or operator's
handwritten acceptance signature and date of acceptance on the manifest;

(c) if a particular shipment of hazardous waste is delivered to a continuing
transporter, the original transporter must, within seven (7) days, submit a
photocopy of the transporter copy (copy #5) of the manifest to the
Department. Such photocopy must be signed and dated by the continuing
transporter, indicating acceptance of the hazardous waste;

(d) give the original and remaining copies of the manifest to the subsequent
transporter or to the facility owner or operator;

(e) retain, for at least three (3) years from the date the hazardous waste was
accepted by him, the transporter copy (copy #5) of the manifest signed by
the generator, prior transporters, himself, and subsequent transporters or
the owner or operator of the designated hazardous waste facility. If more
than one transporter is involved, and the generator has not provided a
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


photocopy of the Transporter copy (copy #5) of the manifest, the original
transporter shall make photocopies so that each transporter retains copy #5
of the manifest.

B. The requirements of Sections 8(A)(2), (3), and (4) of this rule do not
apply to rail or water (bulk shipment) transporters if such a transporter
complies with requirements of 40 CFR Part 263.20(e)(1)-(5) and (f)(1)-(5),
and 40 CFR 263.22(b) and (c), which are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference, except that a copy of the manifest or shipping paper shall also
be sent to the Department by each delivering transporter upon delivery to
any other transporter or to the designated facility within seven (7) days of
delivery.

C. Transporters who transport hazardous waste out of the United States
shall comply with the applicable requirements of 40 CFR Part 263.20; and
in addition, shall send a photocopy of manifest copy #5 to the Department
within seven (7) days after the hazardous waste left the United States.

D. A transporter shall deliver the entire quantity of hazardous waste which
he has accepted from a generator or a prior transporter to:

(l) The subsequent transporter;

(2) The waste facility designated on the manifest;

(3) The alternate designated facility, if an emergency prevents delivery to the
primary designated facility; or

(4) The place outside the United States designated by the generator.

E. If the hazardous waste cannot be delivered in accordance with Section
7(D) of this rule, the transporter shall contact the generator for further
instructions and shall revise the manifest according to the generator's
instructions, or shall return the waste to the generator.

F. If hazardous waste in any amount is discharged during transportation,
the transporter shall:

(l) Take immediate appropriate action to protect public health and safety
and the environment;

(2) Immediately notify the Maine Department of Public Safety by calling 1-
800-452-4664 or (207) 624-7000.

NOTE: The Maine Department of Public Safety (State Police) will
immediately notify the Department.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) Immediately notify, if required by 49 CFR 171.15, the National Response
Center at 1-800-424-8802 or (202) 426-2675;

(4) Immediately notify the local public safety agency;

(5) Report in writing as required by 49 CFR 171.16 to the Director, Office of
Hazardous Materials Regulation, Department of Transportation,
Washington, DC 20590; and

(6) If the transporter is a water (bulk shipment) transporter, give the same
notice as required by 33 CFR 153.023 for oil and hazardous substances.

Compliance with this subsection does not relieve a transporter of any
obligations or liabilities for such discharges imposed by statute or other
rules.

NOTE: For further information and guidance, refer to Chapter 801 of the
Department's rules, Discharge of Hazardous Matter; Removal and Written
Reporting Procedures.

9. Manifest Requirements for Owners or Operators of Hazardous
Waste Facilities

NOTE: Other requirements for owners and operators of waste facilities for
hazardous waste appear in other rules of the Board dealing with specific
aspects of hazardous waste management. See, for example, Chapters 852,
Land Disposal Restrictions; 855, Interim Licenses for Waste Facilities for
Hazardous Waste; and 854, Standards for Hazardous Waste Facilities.

A. The owner or operator of a hazardous waste facility shall:

(1) Not accept hazardous waste from a generator or transporter unless the
waste is accompanied by its manifest, properly completed by the generator
and all transporters;

(2) Not accept any hazardous waste for which his facility is not licensed;

(3) Upon acceptance of a shipment of hazardous waste:

(a) complete the facility owner or operator portion of the manifest including
his handwritten signature and date of acceptance, noting any discrepancy in
manifest information and attempts made to reconcile the discrepancy. If a
discrepancy in a manifest is discovered, he shall attempt to reconcile the
discrepancy. If not resolved within 15 days, he shall submit a letter report
including a copy of the manifest to the Department.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(b) send the Destination State completed copy (copy #1) of the manifest to
the State in which his facility is located within seven (7) days of acceptance;

(c) send the Generator State completed copy (copy #2) to the State in which
the waste was generated within seven (7) days of acceptance;

NOTE: If the waste was generated out-of-state an owner or operator can
obtain the name and address of the appropriate out-of-state agency by
calling the Department at 207/287-2651.

(d) send the signed generator-completed copy (copy #3) of the manifest to
the generator within seven (7) days of acceptance;

(e) immediately give the transporter copy (copy #5) of the manifest to the
transporter, and

(f) retain the hazardous waste facility copy (copy #4) of the manifest signed
by the generator, all transporters and himself for at least three (3) years
from the date of his acceptance of the waste, except that if the waste facility
for hazardous waste is the point of ultimate disposition of the waste, the
owner or operator shall retain the copy of the manifest for the life of the
facility or until he establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that
the waste is no longer hazardous;

(i) when the waste facility is no longer in operation, the owner's or operator's
copies of manifests shall be returned or disposed of as the Commissioner
may direct.

B. An owner or operator of a hazardous waste facility which accepts a bulk
shipment of hazardous waste by rail or water shall comply with the
requirements of 40 CFR Part 264.71(b), which are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference, and in addition shall send a copy of the manifest
or shipping paper to the Department within seven (7) days of acceptance.

C. If hazardous waste accepted by a facility is subsequently to be moved to
another facility, for whatever reason, the owner or operator of the waste
facility from which the waste is to be moved becomes the generator of the
waste and is subject to the generator requirements of this rule and other
related rules.

10. Permission to Move Hazardous Waste in Exceptional
Circumstances. In exceptional circumstances, where required to protect
public health or safety or the environment, the Commissioner may give
permission to a generator or transporter of hazardous waste or to an owner
or operator of a waste facility for hazardous waste to deliver, transport or
accept hazardous waste without a manifest. In all such cases, each
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


generator, transporter and owner or operator who deals with the waste shall
file a written report with the Department giving such information as the
Department may require.

11. Retention of Records. The periods of retention of records established
in this rule are extended automatically during the course of any unresolved
enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the
Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection or by the
Regional Administrator or Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.

12. Department's Hazardous Waste Manifest and Uniform Bill of
Lading for Hazardous Recyclable Material Copies: Where to
Send. Generators, transporters and owners and operators of waste facilities
for hazardous waste shall send copies of the manifest or Uniform Bill of
Lading or other form approved for use by the Department as required by
this rule to the Department at:

Hazardous Waste Manifest

Bureau of Remediation and Waste Management

Department of Environmental Protection

State House Station #l7

Augusta, Maine 04333

13. Log Requirements. In lieu of a manifest or Uniform Bill of Lading, an
instate small universal waste generator or instate central accumulation
facility operator may utilize a log system of tracking provided the following
requirements are met:

A. For a small universal waste generator:

(1) the waste is sent to either an instate central accumulation facility or
instate consolidation facility;

(2) all the required universal waste information pursuant to Section 13(B)(4)
below is recorded on the log sheet upon the generator's arrival at the facility;
and

(3) the instate consolidation facility submits the quarterly waste tracking
information to the Department on a timely basis.

B. For a central accumulation facility:
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) the waste is sent to an instate consolidation facility;

(2) in the case of transfer stations and recycling centers the operator ensures
that all the universal waste information is recorded on the log sheet;

(3) the log sheet accompanies the universal waste to the instate
consolidation facility;

(4) the log sheet contains at a minimum the following information:

(a) name, address and phone number of generator or in the case of a
household, the notation that it is from a household in lieu of a specific name,
address and phone number;

(b) date universal waste was delivered to facility; and

(c) type and quantity of universal waste delivered; and

(5) the consolidator submits the quarterly waste tracking information to the
Department on a timely basis.

C. For the instate consolidation facility:

(1) the facility ensures that the log sheets are accurately completed;

(2) on a quarterly basis, a waste tracking document will be submitted to the
Department in a format specified by the Department.

AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A., Section 1301, et seq.

EFFECTIVE DATE: November 24, 1980

AMENDED March 23, 1983

February 10, l985

November 30, 1986

March 16, 1994

EFFECTIVE DATE

(ELECTRONIC CONVERSION): May 4, 1996

AMENDED: January 23, 2001

MINOR CORRECTIONS: March 5, 2001
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 857 Hazardous Waste Manifest
       Requirements (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


July 23, 2008 - informational notes added to Sections 4 and 6
