 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 883 Designation of the Chemical Class
Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol Ethoxylates as a Priority Chemical
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Chapter 883: DESIGNATION of The chemical class nonylphenol
and nonylphenol ethoxylates AS A PRIORITY CHEMICAL

SUMMARY: This rule designates the chemical class nonylphenol and
nonylphenol ethoxylates as a priority chemical and requires reporting for
certain product categories that contain a chemical compound in the class.

1. Applicability. This chapter applies to manufacturers of children's
products containing intentionally-added nonylphenol or nonylphenol
ethoxylates that are manufactured, sold, offered for sale or distributed for
sale in Maine.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this rule, the definitions found in
06-096 CMR Chapter 880, Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's
Products, section 1, apply. The following terms, as used in this rule, have the
following meanings:

A. Cosmetics and personal care products. "Cosmetics and personal
care products" means articles intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled, or
sprayed on, or otherwise applied to the human body or any part thereof for
cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness, or altering the appearance,
and articles intended for use as a component of any such articles.

B. Household and commercial cleaning products. "Household and
commercial cleaning products" means soaps, detergents and other
chemically formulated consumer products designed for fabric care, dish and
other ware washing and/or surface cleaning in residential, institutional or
commercial establishments.

C. Exposure or exposed. "Exposure or exposed" in reference to a priority
chemical means that a person is subjected in the course of daily life to a
priority chemical from a product that enters the body in any quantity from
any route of entry, including inhalation, ingestion, skin contact or
absorption.

D. Home maintenance products. "Home maintenance products" means
products used for the repair or maintenance of the inside or outside of a
home, including, but not limited to, adhesives, caulking, grouts, fillers,
sealants, paints and other surface finishes.

E. Nonylphenol (NP) and nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPE).
"Nonylphenol (NP) and nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPE)" means nonionic
surfactants in the alkylphenol and alkylphenol ethoxylate group of chemical
compounds. Nonylphenol has a chemical formula of C15-H24-O and may be
linear (Phenol, nonyl- ), with a Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 883 Designation of the Chemical Class
Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol Ethoxylates as a Priority Chemical
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(CAS RN) of 25154-52-3, or branched (phenol, 4-nonyl-, branched), with a
CAS RN of 84852-15-3. The formula for chemicals in the nonylphenol
ethoxylate group is (C2-H4-O)mult-C15-H24-O, and commercially-relevant
CAS RNs include, but are not limited to: 9016-45-9, 26027-38-3, 37205-87-
1, 68412-54-4, and 127087-87-0.

3. Designation of the chemical class nonylphenol and
nonylphenol ethoxylates as a priority chemical

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. The chemical class
nonylphenol and nonylphenol ethoxylates is on the list of chemicals of high
concern published by the department under 38 MRSA ยง 693.

NOTE: To view the full list, go to:
www.maine.gov/dep/oc/safechem/highconcern/

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of the
chemical class nonylphenol and nonylphenol ethoxylates as a priority
chemical, as set forth under 38 MRSA ยง 694, have been met as documented
in the basis statement accompanying this chapter:

(1) Chemicals from the class or their metabolites have been found through
biomonitoring to be present in human blood, including umbilical cord
blood, breast milk, urine or other bodily tissues or fluids;

(2) Chemicals from the class or their breakdown products have been found
through sampling and analysis to be present in household dust, indoor air,
drinking water or elsewhere in the home environment;

(3) Chemicals from the class or their breakdown products have been found
through monitoring to be present in fish, wildlife and the natural
environment;

(4) Chemicals from the class are present in a consumer product used and
present in the home; and

(5) Nonylphenol and nonylphenol ethoxylates have been identified as a high
production volume chemical by the federal Environmental Protection
Agency.

4. Information submission required

A. Product categories. Manufacturers of the following products that
contain intentionally-added nonylphenol or nonylphenol ethoxylates must
submit information to the department pursuant to section 4(B) of this
chapter:
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 883 Designation of the Chemical Class
Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol Ethoxylates as a Priority Chemical
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(1) Household and commercial cleaning products,

(2) Cosmetics and personal care products, and

(3) Home maintenance products sold, marketed to or intended for use by
consumers.

B. Information required. No later than 180 days after the effective date
of this rule, the manufacturer of a consumer product listed in section 4(A) of
this chapter that contains intentionally-added nonylphenol or nonylphenol
ethoxylates, shall report to the department the following information:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the name, address, and
phone number of a contact person for the manufacturer;

(2) A description of the manufacturer's product or products containing
nonylphenol or nonylphenol ethoxylates;

(3) The amount of nonylphenol or nonylphenol ethoxylates in each unit of
the product;

(4) The function of nonylphenol or nonylphenol ethoxylates in the product;

(5) The number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally,
expressed as a range;

(6) Any assessment that has already been performed by the manufacturer of
the availability, cost, feasibility and/or performance, including potential for
harm to human health and the environment, of alternatives to nonylphenol
or nonylphenol ethoxylates and the reason nonylphenol or nonylphenol
ethoxylates are used in the manufacture of the children's product in lieu of
identified alternatives; and

(7) Other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting of
the chemical.

NOTE: Upon review of information submitted pursuant to this chapter, the
commissioner may request that a manufacturer clarify the submittal,
supplement incomplete information or provide additional information not
specified in this chapter if the commissioner determines that the
information is needed for the department to complete its evaluation of the
priority chemical. See department rules, 06-096 CMR 880(3)(D); see also
38 MRSA ยง 695(2).

5. Department Address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 883 Designation of the Chemical Class
Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol Ethoxylates as a Priority Chemical
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

reporting forms. Use the following address to send all non-electronic
correspondence to the department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection

Bureau of Remediation and Waste Management, Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:

www.maine.gov/dep/oc/safechem/index.htm

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. ? 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

January 9, 2011 - filing 2011-4
