   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Chapter 882: DESIGNATION of Bisphenol A AS A PRIORITY
CHEMICAL AND REGULATION OF BISPHENOL A in Children's
Products

SUMMARY: This chapter designates bisphenol A as a priority chemical,
requires reporting for certain product categories that contain bisphenol A
and prohibits sales of certain products containing bisphenol A.

1. Applicability

A. This chapter applies to manufacturers of children's products containing
intentionally-added bisphenol A that are manufactured, sold, offered for sale
or distributed for sale in Maine.

B. Exemptions

(1) Used products. This chapter does not apply to the chemical in used
products.

(2) Food and beverage packaging. A container or packaging for a food
or beverage product is exempt from the requirements of this chapter, unless
that product is intentionally marketed or intended for the use of children
under three years of age.

(3) Transportation. The requirements of this chapter do not apply to
motor vehicles as defined in Title 29-A, section 101, subsection 42 or
watercraft as defined in Title 12, section 13001, subsection 28 or their
component parts, except that the use of bisphenol A in detachable car seats
is not exempt.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this chapter, the definitions found
in 06-096 CMR Chapter 880, Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's
Products, section 1 apply. The following terms, as used in this chapter, have
the following meanings:

A. Baby food. "Baby food" means a prepared solid food consisting of a soft
paste or an easily chewed food that is intended for consumption by children
two years of age or younger and is commercially available.

B. Bisphenol A or BPA. "Bisphenol A" or "BPA" means a chemical
compound having a CA (Chemical Abstract) Index Name of "Phenol, 4,4'-(1-
methylethylidene)bis-" a chemical formula of C15H16O2 and a CAS RN
(Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number) of 80-05-7.

C. Child care article. "Child care article" means a consumer product
designed or intended by the manufacturer to facilitate sleep or the feeding of
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

children age 3 and younger, or to help such children with sucking or
teething.

D. Exposure or exposed. "Exposure or exposed" in reference to a priority
chemical means that a person is subjected in the course of daily life to a
priority chemical from a product that enters the body in any quantity from
any route of entry, including but not limited to inhalation, ingestion, skin
contact or absorption.

E. Food and beverage packaging. "Food and beverage packaging"
means containers, packaging, and packaging materials that contain and/or
protect processed and raw foods and beverages at the point of sale. "Food
and beverage packaging" does not include containers intended for storage or
preparation of food that do not contain food or beverage when sold or
purchased.

F. Infant formula. "Infant formula" means a liquid that purports to be or
is represented for special dietary use solely as a food for infants by reason of
its simulation of human milk or its suitability as a complete or partial
substitute for human milk.

G. Reusable food or beverage container. "Reusable food or beverage
container" means a container with a lid, cover, cap or nipple that is
manufactured or intended for storing, carrying or transporting food or
beverages, including, but not limited to, baby bottles, spill-proof cups, sports
bottles and thermoses. "Reusable food or beverage container" does not
include a receptacle that contains food or beverage when sold or purchased.

H. Tableware. "Tableware" means reusable or disposable dishes, utensils
and other articles used in setting a table and/or serving a meal. "Tableware"
includes but is not limited to: plates, bowls, cups/glasses, spoons, knives and
forks.

I. Toy. "Toy" means a consumer product designed or intended by the
manufacturer for a child 12 years of age or younger for use by the child when
the child plays. "Toy" does not include helmets, masks, goggles or other
personal protective equipment designed to protect the wearer's body from
injury during sports and recreation activities.

3. Designation of bisphenol A as a priority chemical

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. Bisphenol A is present
on the list of chemicals of high concern published by the department under
38 M.R.S.A. §1693.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

NOTE: To view the full list, go to:
www.maine.gov/dep/oc/safechem/highconcern/

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of
bisphenol A as a priority chemical, as set forth under 38 M.R.S.A. §1694,
have been met as documented in the basis statement accompanying this
chapter:

(1) Bisphenol A has been found through biomonitoring to be present in
human blood, including umbilical cord blood, breast milk, urine or other
bodily tissues or fluids;

(2) Bisphenol A has been found through sampling and analysis to be present
in household dust, indoor air, drinking water or elsewhere in the home
environment;

(3) Bisphenol A has been found through monitoring to be present in fish,
wildlife or the natural environment;

(4) Bisphenol A is present in a consumer product used or present in the
home;

(5) Bisphenol A has been identified as a high production volume chemical by
the federal Environmental Protection Agency; and

(6) The sale or use of bisphenol A or a product containing bisphenol A has
been banned in another state within the United States.

4. Information submission required

A. Infant formula and baby food

(1) No later than 180 days after the effective date of this chapter, the
manufacturer of infant formula or baby food that is sold in a plastic
container, jar or can that contains intentionally-added bisphenol A, shall
report to the department the following information:

(a) The name and address of the manufacturer and the name, address, and
phone number of a contact person for the manufacturer;

(b) A description of the product or products containing bisphenol A;

(c) The number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally;

(d) The amount of bisphenol A in each unit of the product;

(e) The function of bisphenol A in the product; and
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(f) Other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting of
the chemical.

(2) No later than January 1, 2012, the manufacturer of infant formula or
baby food that is sold in a plastic container, jar or can that contains
intentionally-added bisphenol A, shall submit to the department an
assessment of the availability, cost, feasibility and performance, including
potential for harm to human health and the environment, of alternatives to
bisphenol A, polycarbonate plastic or epoxy resin, and the reason bisphenol
A, polycarbonate plastic or epoxy resin is used in the manufacture of the
infant formula or baby food container, jar or can in lieu of identified
alternatives. This assessment must, at a minimum, include all of the
elements of an acceptable assessment listed in 06-096 CMR Chapter 880
Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's Products.

(3) The commissioner may extend the deadline for submission of the
alternatives assessment required under this paragraph. Request for a time
extension must be made in writing on or before December 1, 2011. If an
assessment acceptable to the department is not timely submitted, the
department may assess fees as provided under 06-096 CMR 881 to cover the
cost of preparing an independent assessment.

(4) Upon receipt and review of acceptable alternatives assessment(s)
submitted to, or prepared for, the department, and no later than January 1,
2013, the department shall report the findings of the alternatives
assessment(s) to the Board of Environmental Protection and, if appropriate,
propose an amendment to this chapter reflecting those findings.

NOTE: In accordance with 06-096 CMR Chapter 880 section 3(A), a
manufacturer may comply with the requirements of this section by relying
on information submitted on behalf of the manufacturer by a trade
association, chemical manufacturer or other third party, provided the
information is presented in a form acceptable to the commissioner.
Alternatively, manufacturers may comply by agreeing to fund an alternatives
assessment contracted by the department to an independent party.

The department encourages manufacturers to prepare and submit a
workplan for the alternatives assessment. The work plan should include a
schedule for completion of the alternatives assessment and details
concerning the submittal and content of interim deliverables to facilitate
department approval of the alternatives assessment.

B. Toys, child care articles and tableware. No later than 180 days
after the effective date of this chapter, the manufacturer of a toy, child care
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

article, or tableware that contains intentionally-added bisphenol A, shall
report to the department the following information:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer;

(2) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person for the
manufacturer;

(3) A description of the product or products containing bisphenol A,
including the overall size of the product and/or the component of the
product that contains BPA and whether the product or BPA-containing
component of the product, can be placed in the mouth. A toy can be placed
in a child's mouth if any part of the toy can actually be brought to the mouth
and kept in the mouth by a child so that it can be sucked and chewed. If the
children's product can only be licked, it is not regarded as able to be placed
in the mouth. If a toy or part of a toy in one dimension is smaller than 5
centimeters, it can be placed in the mouth.;

(4) The number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally;

(5) The amount of bisphenol A in each unit of the product, or the amount of
polycarbonate plastic or epoxy resin (percent by weight) in each unit of the
product;

(6) The function of bisphenol A (or polycarbonate plastic/epoxy resin) in the
product; and

(7) Other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting of
the chemical.

NOTE: Upon review of information submitted pursuant to section 4 of this
chapter, the commissioner may request that a manufacturer clarify the
submittal, supplement incomplete information or provide additional
information not specified in this chapter if the commissioner determines
that the information is needed for the department to complete its evaluation
of the priority chemical. See department rules, 06-096 CMR 880(3)(D); see
also 38 M.R.S.A. §1695(2).

5. Sales prohibition of children's products containing bisphenol A

A. Sales prohibition. Except as provided in section 1(B) of this chapter,
no person shall sell, offer for sale or distribute for sale in Maine any:

1) reusable food or beverage container containing intentionally-added
bisphenol A after January 1, 2012;
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

2) infant formula packaging containing intentionally-added bisphenol A in
an amount greater than the de minimis level after March 1, 2014; and

3) baby food packaging containing intentionally-added bisphenol A in an
amount greater than the de minimis level after March 1, 2014.

B. Compliance plan required. The manufacturer of a children's product
subject to the sales prohibition of subsection A shall file, or cause all of its
distributors to file, a compliance plan with the department no later than 180
days prior to the effective date of a sales prohibition under this section,
unless the manufacturer receives a time extension in writing from the
department. The compliance plan must:

(1) Identify the manufacturer's products subject to the sales prohibition;

(2) Specify whether compliance will be achieved by discontinuing the sale of
the children's product in Maine or by substituting a safer alternative in the
product;

(3) If compliance is achieved by substitution of a safer alternative in the
product, identify the safer alternative and the timetable for substitution; and

(4) Confirm that the manufacturer has notified all persons that offer the
product for sale or distribution in Maine of the sales prohibition, as required
by 38 M.R.S.A. §1696(4).

(a) Confirmation shall include a copy of the notice and a list of the persons
to whom it was sent.

(b) A retailer is exempt from the sales prohibition requirements of this
section if the manufacturer failed to notify the wholesaler and retailer in
accordance with this subsection, and the department did not notify the
retailer of the sales prohibition.

C. Waiver for specific uses. The manufacturer or distributor of a
children's product that is subject to a sales prohibition under subsection
5(A) may apply to the commissioner for a waiver for one or more specific
uses of bisphenol A. The waiver application must be submitted at least 180
days prior to the effective date of a sales prohibition, or prior to a new
product being sold in Maine and must, at a minimum:

(1) Identify the specific children's product use or uses for which the waiver is
sought;

(2) Identify the alternatives considered for substitution of the priority
chemical;
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 882 Designation of Bisphenol a as a
  Priority Chemical and Regulation of Bisphelol a in Consumer
         Products (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(3) Explain the basis for concluding that the use of an alternative is not
feasible; and

(4) Identify the steps that have and will be taken to minimize the use of the
priority chemical.

D. The commissioner may grant a waiver with or without conditions upon
finding that there is a need for the children's product in which the priority
chemical is used and there are no technically or economically feasible
alternatives for the use of the priority chemical in the children's product.
Waivers may be granted for a term not to exceed 5 years and may be
renewed for one or more additional 5-year terms upon written application
demonstrating that technically or economically feasible alternatives remain
unavailable. The commissioner shall deny or grant waiver requests within
60 days after receipt of a completed waiver application.

6. Department Address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
reporting forms. Use the following address to send all correspondence to the
department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection

Bureau of Remediation and Waste Management, Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:

www.maine.gov/dep/oc/safechem/index.htm

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. §§ 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

January 9, 2011 - filing 2011-3 (except Section 5)

August 1, 2011 - filing 2011-205 (Section 5), major substantive final adoption

January 30, 2013 - filing 2013-015, routine technical language

August 25, 2013 - filing 2013-180, major substantive final adoption
