    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 530: SURFACE WATERS TOXICS CONTROL PROGRAM

SUMMARY: The surface waters of the State are managed to prevent
contamination from toxic pollutants in toxic amounts in order to meet the
goals of the Clean Water Act and Maine's water quality standards. Toxic
compounds may not be discharged in amounts that may cause toxic impacts
on aquatic organisms or effect human health. This rule sets forth effluent
monitoring requirements and procedures to establish safe levels for the
discharge of toxic pollutants such that existing and designated uses of
surface waters are maintained and protected and narrative and numeric
water quality criteria are met.

1. General Provisions

A. Definitions. The definitions in Chapter 520 are applicable to this
Chapter.

B. Discharge of toxics limited. No person may discharge any toxic
substance in any amount or concentration, either alone or in combination
with substances already in the receiving water or discharge, that may cause
or contribute to the failure of any classified body of surface water to attain
its existing and designated uses or to meet narrative or numeric water
quality criteria.

C. Applications for discharge licenses. A person filing an application
with the Department for a waste discharge license must identify in that
application all substances that may be discharged and are toxic or have toxic
characteristics. The Department may require a person to conduct additional
testing or provide additional information to supplement or amend a license
application as necessary to fully characterize an existing or proposed
discharge in order to determine the potential for the discharge of toxic
substances. This may be in addition to routine testing otherwise required by
this rule.

2. WET Testing and Chemical-Specific Testing for Toxic
Pollutants

A. Dischargers subject to this section

All licensed dischargers of industrial process wastewater or domestic wastes
discharging to surface waters of the State must meet the testing
requirements of this section. Dischargers of other types of wastewater are
subject to this subsection when and if the Department determines that
toxicity of effluents may have reasonable potential to cause or contribute to
exceedences of narrative or numerical water quality criteria. For the
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


purposes of this rule, industrial process wastewater is that which comes in
contact with or results from a manufactured product, except for those
processes that involve only washing and/or packing a raw material without
addition of chemicals to the product.

The following dischargers are exempt from testing requirements of this rule
unless the Department determines that there is a need for testing based on
the nature, location or circumstances of an individual discharge.

(1) Discharges from individual discharge points licensed to discharge less
than 50,000 gallons per day of solely domestic wastewater and with a
chronic dilution factor of at least 50 to 1, provided no holding tank wastes
containing chemicals are accepted by the facility;

(2) Discharges from residential overboard discharge systems; or

(3) Discharges from combined sewer overflow discharge points, provided
the owner of the sewerage system is conducting or participating in a
discharge abatement program. See Chapter 570, Combined Sewer Overflow
Abatement.

B. Categorization of dischargers. The basis of this categorization is the
relative risk of toxic contamination of receiving water by a discharge.
Dilution of the discharge in the receiving water is the primary variable used
to determine the testing frequency. In determining dilution for a discharge,
the Department shall use the chronic dilution factor as calculated pursuant
to section 4(A) of this rule. The Department may assign a discharger to a
higher testing frequency level if its outfall configuration or local conditions
indicate a disproportional increase in the risk of acute toxic effects.

Level I Those dischargers having a chronic dilution factor of less than 20 to
1.

Level II Those dischargers having a chronic dilution factor of at least 20 but
less than 100 to 1.

Level III Those dischargers having a chronic dilution factor of at least 100
but less than 500 to 1, or dischargers having a chronic dilution factor of
more than 500 to 1 and a permitted flow of 1 million gallons per day or
greater.

Level IV Those dischargers having a chronic dilution factor of at least 500 to
1 and a permitted flow of less than 1 million gallons per day.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


C. Scope of testing. Dischargers must conduct testing using the following
organisms for Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) testing and/or chemical tests
for specific compounds.

(1) Marine WET organisms. Test species for discharges to marine waters
are Mysid shrimp, Mysidopsis bahia (acute only) and the sea urchin,
Arbacia punctulata, (chronic only), or other organisms specified by the
Department. All WET testing must be reported as a No Observed Effect
Level.

NOTE: In estuarine situations, the Department shall specify whether marine
or freshwater organisms are best suited for an individual discharge.

(2) Freshwater WET organisms. Test species for discharges to
freshwater are the water flea, Ceriodaphnia dubia and the brook trout,
Salvelinus fontinalis or other salmonid fish species approved by the
Department, or other organisms specified by the Department. All WET
testing must be reported as a No Observed Effect Level for both acute and
chronic levels for each species.

(3) "Priority pollutant" testing refers to analysis for levels of priority
pollutants listed in Chapter 525, section (4)(VI) in a licensed discharge.

(4) "Analytical chemistry" refers to a suite of chemical tests for ammonia
nitrogen, total aluminum, total cadmium, total chromium, total copper, total
hardness (fresh water only), total lead, total nickel, total silver, total zinc,
total arsenic, total cyanide and total residual chlorine.

(5) Chemical analyses for compounds in addition to those referred to in
paragraphs (3) and (4) above may be required if the Department has reason
to believe that specific discharges contain such compounds in
concentrations that may prevent attainment of water quality standards of
the waterbody. Additionally, the Department may require testing for other
compounds that it identifies as being in use in the State and that pose a risk
of causing toxic effects if discharged to the surface waters. Such testing may
be required of specific types or groups of dischargers that may use, produce
or receive the compound(s) in question.

(6) All chemical testing must be carried out by approved methods that
permit detection of a pollutant at existing levels in the discharge or that
achieve detection levels as specified by the Department. When chemical
testing results are reported as less then, or detected below the Department's
specified detection limits, those results will be considered as not being
present for the purposes of determining exceedences of water quality
criteria.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(7) Whenever WET, priority pollutants and analytical chemistry tests are
required during the same time period, all tests must be performed on the
same initial sample of effluent.

D. Test schedules. In order to characterize a discharged effluent, all
dischargers subject to this section must carry out a toxicity testing program
consisting of screening tests and surveillance tests according to the schedule
set forth in this section. This testing program must be conducted on
effluents representative of normal flow, production and operating
conditions. All screening and surveillance testing conducted must be
reported to the Department and all valid tests will be used to determine
compliance with this rule. Where any test demonstrates that a discharge
may cause or contribute to an exceedence of a numerical or narrative water
quality criterion, additional tests must be conducted pursuant to an
approved toxicity reduction program (see section 3(C)). Such testing may
not be used to fulfill minimum testing requirements of this section.

(1) Routine testing requirements. Screening tests must be performed
during the fourth year of a discharger's license, but at least once every five
years, unless otherwise directed by the Department in order to
accommodate license renewal schedules. The screening testing period
begins 24-months prior to the expiration of a discharger's license and
proceeds for four (4) calendar quarters (1 year). During other years,
surveillance testing must be conducted. More frequent testing may be
required by the Department in order to properly characterize a discharge in
consideration of changed conditions or receiving water requirements.

Screening level testing

Level WET Testing Priority pollutant testing Analytical chemistry
I     4 per year   1 per year                4 per year
II    2 per year   1 per year                4 per year
III   1 per year   1 per year                4 per year
IV    1 per year * 1 per year *              4 per year *

Surveillance level testing

Level WET Testing Priority pollutant testing Analytical chemistry
I     2 per year   None required             4 per year
II    1 per year   None required             2 per year
III   1 per year   None required             1 per year
IV    1 per year * None required *           1 per year *
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


*These routine testing requirements for Level IV are waived, except that the
Department shall require an individual discharger to conduct testing under
the following conditions.

(a) The discharger's permit application or information available to the
Department indicate that toxic compounds may be present in toxic amounts;
or

(b) Previous testing conducted by the discharger or similar dischargers
indicates that toxic compounds may be present in toxic amounts.

Additionally, new or substantially changed dischargers assigned to Level IV
must conduct testing during the first two years of the discharge. Further
testing is waived provided the testing done does not indicate any reasonable
potential for exceedence as calculated pursuant to section 3(E).

(2) Required testing must be representative of the discharge and any
seasonal or other variations, and must be distributed during the year as
follows.

Tests
         Distribution
per year
4        One test each calendar quarter
         One test in January to June and one test 6 months later. For surveillance tests,
2
         different months will be used in 4 successive years.
1        For surveillance tests, different calendar quarters will be used in 4 successive years.

(3) Reduced testing

(a) The Department may reduce testing requirements for dischargers that
discharge less than 12 months per year in proportion to the actual number of
months discharged, but to not less than one test per year where testing
would otherwise be required. The Department may adjust test schedules to
provide the most representative sampling program.

(b) Dischargers in Levels III and IV may be waived from conducting
surveillance testing for individual WET species or chemicals provided that
testing in the preceding 60 months does not indicate any reasonable
potential for exceedence as calculated pursuant to section 3(E).

(c) Dischargers in Level II may reduce surveillance testing to one WET or
specific chemical series every other year provided that testing in the
preceding 60 months does not indicate any reasonable potential for
exceedence as calculated pursuant to section 3(E).
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(d) Dischargers in Level I may reduce surveillance testing to one WET or
specific chemical series per year provided that testing in the preceding 60
months does not indicate any reasonable potential for exceedence as
calculated pursuant to section 3(E).

(4) All dischargers having waived or reduced testing must file statements
with the Department on or before December 31 of each year describing the
following.

(a) Changes in the number or types of non-domestic wastes contributed
directly or indirectly to the wastewater treatment works that may increase
the toxicity of the discharge;

(b) Changes in the operation of the treatment works that may increase the
toxicity of the discharge; and

(c) Changes in industrial manufacturing processes contributing wastewater
to the treatment works that may increase the toxicity of the discharge.

(5) Waiver or Reduction of Testing of Industrial Discharges. The
Department may waive or reduce testing or replace testing with
requirements adequate to characterize the toxicity of identified pollutants
when a discharger provides information adequate to:

(a) Identify all toxic pollutants present or demonstrate that no toxic
pollutants are used in its processes in toxic amounts;

(b) Demonstrate that chemicals used in or formed by the discharger's
industrial processes are not known or suspected to result in the formation of
toxic pollutants in toxic amounts; and

(c) Demonstrate the discharger does not process or treat waters known or
suspected to contain toxic pollutants.

3. Water Quality-based Effluent Limits for Waste Discharge
Licenses. The Department shall establish appropriate discharge
prohibitions, effluent limits and monitoring requirements in waste
discharge licenses if a discharge contains pollutants that are or may be
discharged at levels that cause, have reasonable potential to cause, or
contribute to an ambient excursion in excess of a numeric or narrative water
quality criteria or that may impair existing or designated uses. The licensee
must also control whole effluent toxicity (WET) when discharges cause, have
a reasonable potential to cause, or contribute to an ambient excursion above
the narrative water quality criteria. In determining if effluent limits are
required, the Department shall consider all information on file and effluent
testing conducted during the preceding 60 months. However, testing done
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


in the performance of a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation (TRE) approved by
the Department may be excluded from such evaluations.

A. Specific pollutant approach. When specific toxic pollutants of known
action and interaction are identified in a discharge or potential discharge,
the water quality-based effluent limit is determined by use of the applicable
numerical water quality criteria for the pollutants to protect aquatic life and
human health and using the appropriate dilution described in section 4(A)
below.

NOTE: See section 4(F) for procedures to address multiple discharges into a
common receiving water.

B. Whole effluent approach. When the existing or proposed discharge
contains two or more pollutants whose actions or interactions are unknown
or when toxic components cannot be identified, WET effluent limits may be
required for the protection of aquatic life. Whole effluent toxicity limits are
the "acute no observed effect level" (A-NOEL) and the "chronic no observed
effect level" (C-NOEL), expressed as percent effluent (the mathematical
inverse of the applicable dilution factor), and must be greater than the actual
receiving water concentrations (percent of effluent in receiving water at the
appropriate dilution pursuant to section 4(A)).

C. Determination of Exceedence of Criteria. The results of all testing
required by this rule must be submitted to the Department not later than the
next discharge monitoring report required by the discharger's license,
provided, however, that the discharger may review the toxicity reports for up
to 10 business days of their availability before submitting them. Using
information and guidance provided by the Department, dischargers shall
evaluate test results being submitted and identify to the Department
possible exceedences of applicable water quality criteria. The Department
shall review all testing data as received. If these data indicate that the
discharge is causing an exceedence of applicable water quality criteria, then:
(1) the licensee must, within 45 days of becoming aware of an exceedence,
submit a TRE plan for review and approval and implement the TRE after
Department approval; and (2) the Department must, within 180 days of the
Department's written approval of the TRE plan, modify the waste discharge
license to specify effluent limits and monitoring requirements necessary to
control the level of pollutants and meet receiving water classification
standards. Evaluations of the reasonable potential for exceedence of criteria
must be conducted upon any license action, following the provisions of
section 3(E). The Department shall utilize mass discharge criteria for
evaluating individual exceedences of specific chemical pollutants.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


When considering the need for license limits, the Department may exclude
from evaluations tests in a series done for an individual pollutant or WET
test during five years only if the discharger satisfactorily demonstrates
through implementation of a TRE pursuant to this subsection that the
cause(s) for a high result have been identified and corrected. Additionally,
tests subsequent to the high test(s) must not show reasonable potential for
exceedence of water quality criteria. In making these determinations, the
Department shall not exclude tests solely because the values are higher than
other values obtained by the discharger. The Department shall issue a
license limit in situations where an exceedence is recorded due to a valid test
and a cause for the exceedence cannot be identified and corrected.

D. Expression of effluent limits. Where the need for effluent limits has
been determined, limits derived from acute water quality criteria must be
expressed as daily maximum values. Limits derived from chronic or human
health criteria must be expressed as monthly average values.

(1) For specific chemicals, effluent limits must be expressed in total quantity
that may be discharged. Unless required by an applicable effluent limitation
guideline adopted by the Department, all permit limitations for metals shall
be expressed only as mass-based limits. If required, in establishing
concentration, the Department may increase allowable values to reflect
actual flows that are lower than permitted flows and/or provide
opportunities for flow reductions and pollution prevention provided water
quality criteria are not exceeded. With regard to concentration limits, the
Department may review past and projected flows and set limits to reflect
proper operation of the treatment facilities that will keep the discharge of
pollutants to the minimum level practicable.

(2) WET test effluent limits must be expressed as the maximum percent
effluent that will not cause observable adverse effects on test organisms.

E. Determination of Reasonable Potential to Exceed Receiving
Water Quality Criteria. For effluent monitoring data and the variability
of the pollutant in the effluent, the Department shall apply the statistical
approach in Section 3.3.2 and Table 3-2 of USEPA's "Technical Support
Document for Water Quality-Based Toxics Control" (USEPA Publication
505/2-90-001, March, 1991, EPA, Office of Water, Washington, D.C.) to data
to determine whether water-quality based effluent limits must be included
in a waste discharge license. Where it is determined through this approach
that a discharge contains pollutants or WET at levels that have a reasonable
potential to cause or contribute to an exceedence of water quality criteria,
appropriate water quality-based limits must be established in any licensing
action.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


F. Procedures for data analysis and effluent limit calculations

(1) When a test result for a specific chemical is reported as not found in
concentrations at a detection level specified by the Department pursuant to
section 2(C)(6), the compound must be considered to be not present for the
purposes of determining exceedences of water quality criteria.

NOTE: Concentrations of compounds detected below levels specified by the
Department must still be reported.

(2) When the no observed effect level in a WET test is reported as being
below the lowest dilution of effluent tested, the effluent is considered to be
in exceedence of water quality criteria.

(3) When all results are reported as below a detection level specified by the
Department, the compound must be considered to have no reasonable
potential to exceed water quality criteria. For the purposes of determining
the coefficient of variation in calculating reasonable potential to exceed
water quality criteria pursuant to section 3(E), when some results are
reported as below a detectable amount, those values must be considered to
be present at a level of one half of the detection level specified by the
Department.

(4) Flows used in calculations are to be governed by the following. For
exceedence determinations with specific chemicals, calculations must be
based on the facility's flow on the day the sample was collected for acute
criteria and the monthly average flow for the chronic and human health
criteria. Allowable discharge quantities must be calculated based on the
facility's licensed flow and the appropriate design stream flow and water
quality criteria. In situations where a discharger's flow augments the stream
flow (as is the case with most POTW's), the Department's calculation of
allowable mass limits must reflect the differences in dilution factors
resulting from actual flows being less than the facility's full license amount.
For determination of WET test exceedences and all reasonable potential
determinations, the discharger's licensed flow must be used.

4. Water Quality Based Limit Derivation. Water quality based limits
must be developed by using the following procedures.

A. Calculation of dilution factors. A simple dilution model using design
stream flows specified in this section must be used to determine allowable
effluent limits unless there is information that makes another model
approved by the Department more appropriate. All substances are assumed
to be persistent in the environment. With a non-continuous discharge (such
as a lagoon which can be impounded or a continuous discharge prohibited
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


from discharging under specified conditions), the dilution factors can be
based on a guaranteed minimum stream flow or tidal stage below which a
discharge will not occur. The discharger must submit a request for a license
modification that reflects a different minimum stream flow. If the
Department approves an alternate stream flow, the license must include a
monitoring and reporting requirement, and must include an accurate means
of measuring stream flow that is calibrated annually.

(1) Dilution factors (DF) for freshwater discharges are calculated using the
following models:

(a) If the entire water supply that ultimately makes up the effluent flow (Qe)
is taken from the receiving water upstream of the location from which the
stream design flow (Qr) is calculated or measured, then:

DF= Qr/Qe

(b) If the water supply is comprised of water taken from the receiving water
(Qw) and/or from another location (Qo), then:

DF= (Qr + Qo)/(Qw + Qo)

(2) For estuaries where tidal flow is dominant and marine discharges,
dilution factors are calculated as follows. These methods may be
supplemented with additional information such as current studies or dye
studies.

(a) For discharges to the ocean, dilution must be calculated as near-field or
initial dilution, or that dilution available as the effluent plume rises from the
point of discharge to its trapping level, at mean low water level and slack
tide for the acute exposure analysis, and at mean tide for the chronic
exposure analysis using appropriate models determined by the Department
such as MERGE, CORMIX or another predictive model.

(b) For discharges to estuaries, dilution must be calculated using a method
such as MERGE, CORMIX or another predictive model determined by the
Department to be appropriate for the site conditions.

(c) In the case of discharges to estuaries where tidal flow is dominant and
marine waters, the human health criteria must be analyzed using a dilution
equal to three times the chronic dilution factor.

B. Stream design flows. For estuaries where tidal flow is not dominant
and fresh waters, stream design flows used in the analyses of dilution factors
from dilution models must be consistent with the exposure of the population
at risk to any and all toxic pollutants. In situations where an island, channel
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


or other physical circumstance divides the flow of a stream, the Department
shall use appropriate adjustments or assumptions that best describe that
particular situation.

(1) Analyses using numerical acute criteria for aquatic life must be based on
1/4 of the 1Q10 stream design flow to prevent substantial acute toxicity
within any mixing zone and to ensure a zone of passage of at least 3/4 of the
cross-sectional area of any stream as required by Chapter 581. Where it can
be demonstrated that a discharge achieves rapid and complete mixing with
the receiving water by way of an efficient diffuser or other effective method,
analyses may use a greater proportion of the stream design flow, up to and
including all of it, as long as the required zone of passage is maintained.
Flows that allow bioaccumulation of compounds to levels that are toxic,
carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic are not to be used in setting effluent
limits.

(2) Analyses using chronic criteria for aquatic life must be based on 7Q10
stream design flow.

(3) Analyses using human health criteria must be based on harmonic mean
or other stream flows consistent with the duration of exposure.

C. Background concentrations. The background concentration of
specific chemicals must be included in all calculations using the following
procedures. The Department may publish and periodically update a list of
default background concentrations for specific pollutants on a regional,
watershed or statewide basis. In doing so, the Department shall use data
collected from reference sites that are measured at points not significantly
affected by point and non-point discharges and best calculated to accurately
represent ambient water quality conditions. The Department shall use the
same general methods as those in section 4(D) to determine background
concentrations. For pollutants not listed by the Department, an assumed
concentration of 10% of the applicable water quality criteria must be used in
calculations. Alternatively, dischargers may provide the Department with
site specific information of the same nature to supplement or replace the
foregoing values. Sampling plans and/or other means of developing site-
specific information must be approved in writing in advance by the
Department, and must be consistent with the concepts described in section
4(D), below.

D. Site-specific adjustments for local conditions. The Department
may use available information to evaluate physical and chemical
characteristics of a specific receiving water and adjust calculations of the
degree to which they influence the relative toxicity of individual pollutants in
that situation. The information may include tests conducted by the
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Department, the discharger or another organization, provided that approved
methods are used for sample collection and analysis. Once being accepted by
the Department as valid data, this information may be used in place of the
assumptions used to develop statewide water quality criteria for the effected
pollutants and discharger.

(1) While the Department may require or allow different sampling
procedures best designed to provide relevant and meaningful information in
specific situations, sampling plans must generally include collection of
receiving water samples at appropriate locations at least once a month for a
period of a year. Samples for temperature, pH and salinity must be collected
at a point directly upstream or up current of the discharge. Samples for
hardness or other characteristics must be collected at a point upstream in
the receiving water not significantly influenced by point source or non-point
source discharges that may affect the characteristic in question.

(2) If a discharger wishes to have its effluent evaluated using water quality
criteria expressed as dissolved metal instead of total metal, it may submit to
the Department supporting test information. Upon finding the information
appropriate and complete, the Department shall use that information to
develop a translator value following guidance provided by EPA ("The Metals
Translator: Guidance for Calculating a Total Recoverable Permit Limit From
a Dissolved Criterion, USEPA publication 823-B-96-007, June 1996, EPA,
Office of Water, Washington DC,). The testing done must include samples of
the effluent and receiving water mixed in proportion to the discharger's
dilution factor and analyzed for total and dissolved metal, and samples
designed to evaluate the impact of loadings of total metal to receiving water
system.

In evaluating information submitted, the Department shall use the
combination of chemical characteristics, stream flows and times of the year
that best represent the most critical or sensitive conditions for assessment of
toxic impacts by specific pollutants.

E. Water quality reserve. In allocating assimilative capacity for toxic
pollutants, the Department shall hold a portion of the total capacity in an
unallocated reserve to allow for new or changed discharges and non-point
source contributions. The unallocated reserve must be reviewed and
restored as necessary at intervals of not more than five years. The water
quality reserve must be not less than 15% of the total assimilative quantity.
The Department may increase this amount where it has information that
significant non-point sources of a pollutant are present in a watershed. The
Department may allocate quantities held in water quality reserve to new or
changed dischargers according to the principles of the State's anti-
degradation policy described in 38 MRSA, section 464(4)(F).
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Notwithstanding the above, for the purpose of calculating waste discharge
license limits for toxic substances, the department may use any unallocated
assimilative capacity that the Department has set aside for future growth if
the use of that unallocated assimilative capacity would avoid an exceedence
of applicable ambient water quality criteria or a determination by the
Department of a reasonable potential to exceed applicable water quality
criteria.

F. Effect of multiple discharges. Where there is more than one
discharge into the same fresh or estuarine receiving water or watershed, the
Department shall consider the cumulative effects of those discharges when
determining the need for and establishment of the level of effluent limits.
The Department shall calculate the total allowable discharge quantity for
specific pollutants, less the water quality reserve and background
concentration, necessary to achieve or maintain water quality criteria at all
points of discharge, and in the entire watershed. The total allowable
discharge quantity for pollutants must be allocated consistent with the
following principles.

(1) Watershed-wide determinations of the total allowable discharge
quantity, allocations to dischargers and the water quality reserve amount
must be updated at intervals of not more than five years. The results of
updated allocations will be made available to interested parties for
comment.

(2) Evaluations must be done for individual pollutants of concern in each
watershed or segment to assure that water quality criteria are met at all
points in the watershed and, if appropriate, within tributaries of a larger
river.

(3) The total assimilative capacity, less the water quality reserve and
background concentration, may be allocated among the discharges
according to the past discharge quantities for each as a percentage of the
total quantity of discharges, or another comparable method appropriate for
a specific situation and pollutant. If there is a need to reduce past discharge
quantities, the Department may exclude de minimus discharges and for
remaining discharges establish necessary reductions and effluent limits with
proportional consideration of such factors as each facility's relative size and
concentration of pollutants. Past discharges of pollutants must be
determined using the average concentration discharged during the past five
years and the facility's licensed flow. Where insufficient discharge data exist
to accurately characterize a discharge, or for new discharges, the
Department shall use an effluent concentration representative of similar
discharges. For effluent concentrations reported as non-detectable, the
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


concentration must be taken as one-half of the detection level specified by
the Department.

(4) When calculating past discharge loads for use in this section, the
Department may exclude data that represent improper control of pollutants,
are non-representative of a discharge or violate the established effluent
limits or water quality limits as calculated on an individual discharge basis
for the facility.

(5) The amount of allowable discharge quantity may be no more than the
past discharge quantity calculated using the statistical approach referred to
in section 3(E), but in no event may allocations cause the water quality
reserve amount to fall below the minimum referred to in 4(E). Any
difference between the total allowable discharge quantity and that allocated
to existing dischargers must be added to the reserve.

(6) The total allowable discharge quantity must be set to assure compliance
with water quality criteria in downstream estuarine and marine waters.

(7) In conducting evaluations, the Department shall use the same
background concentrations and other receiving water characteristics for all
discharges in an affected segment. (Adjustments made pursuant to sections
4(C) or 4(D) may be developed in a common effort and applied to all
dischargers in the affected segment.)

5. WET Testing Procedures. Toxicity tests must be conducted by an
experienced laboratory approved by the Department. The laboratory must
follow the procedures described in the following USEPA methods manuals,
except as modified by the Department on a case by case basis or as described
in this section for the Salmonid Survival and Growth Test.

A. EPA Methods Manuals

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2002. Methods for Measuring the
Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater and
Marine Organisms, 5 th ed. EPA 821-R-02-012. U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, Office of Water, Washington, D.C., October 2002 (the
acute method manual)

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2002. Short-term Methods for
Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to
Freshwater Organisms, 4 th ed. EPA 821-R -02-013. U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, Office of Water, Washington, D.C., October 2002 (the
freshwater chronic method manual)
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
         Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2002. Short-term Methods for
Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to
Marine and Estuarine Organisms, 3 rd ed. EPA 821-R-02-014. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water, Washington, D.C.,
October 2002 (the marine chronic method manual)

B. Salmonid Survival and Growth Test. The Salmonid survival and
growth test must follow the procedures for the fathead minnow larval
survival and growth tests detailed in USEPA's freshwater acute and chronic
methods manuals (see references above) with the following modifications:

Species - Brook Trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, or other salmonid approved
by the Department.

Age - Less than six months old for the first test each year and less than
twelve months for subsequent tests.

Size - The largest fish must not be greater than 150% of the smallest.

Loading Rate - < 0.5 g/l/day

Feeding rate - 5% of body weight 3 times daily (15%/day)

Temperature - 12°±1°C

Dissolved Oxygen - 6.5 mg/l ,aeration if needed with large bubbles (> 1
mm diameter) at a rate of <100/min

Dilution Water - Receiving water upstream of discharge (or other ambient
water approved by the Department)

Dilution Series - A minimum of 5 effluent concentrations (including the
instream waste concentrations bracketing acute and chronic dilutions
calculated pursuant to Section D); a receiving water control; and control of
known suitable water quality

Duration - Acute= 48 hours

- Chronic= 10 days minimum

Test acceptability - Acute= minimum of 90% survival in 2 days

- Chronic= minimum of 80% survival in 10 days; minimum growth of 20
mg/gm/d dry weight in controls, (individual fish weighed, dried at 100°C to
constant weight and weighed to 3 significant figures)

AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. Sections 420 and 464
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 530 Surface Waters Toxics Control
        Program (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


EFFECTIVE DATE: October 12, 1994 (06-096 Chapter 584 repealed and
replaced by this section)

EFFECTIVE DATE (ELECTRONIC CONVERSION): May 4, 1996

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTION: June 11, 1996 - Defective file from
electronic conversion replaced.

AMENDED: May 14, 1997

AMENDED: August 13, 1997

EFFECTIVE DATE: October 9, 2005 (filing 2005-401, 06-096 Chapter
530.5 repealed and replaced by this rule and Chapter 584)

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTION: May 17, 2006 - numbering within
Section 2

EFFECTIVE DATE: March 21, 2012 - filing 2012-74
