      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 851: STANDARDS FOR GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE

SUMMARY: This rule establishes standards and requirements for persons
who generate hazardous waste.

l. Legal Authority. This rule is authorized by and adopted under 38
M.R.S. §§ 1301 et seq.

2. Preamble. It is the purpose of the Department of Environmental
Protection, consistent with legislative policy, to provide effective controls for
the management of hazardous waste. This rule provides for one of these
controls by establishing certain standards which must be met by generators
of hazardous waste.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those interim final or final regulations
revised as of July 1, 1988, as they appeared in volume 40 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Where specifically stated, the terms of a
referenced federal regulation are hereby adopted as terms of this rule,
except that in regulations incorporated thereby, "EPA" shall mean "the
Maine Department of Environmental Protection (DEP)"; "Administrator",
"Regional Administrator" and "Director" shall mean "the Maine Board of
Environmental Protection or its designated representative", and the phrase
"treat, store, and/or dispose" shall mean "handle". In addition, where the
terms of federal regulations hereby incorporated by reference differ from or
are inconsistent with other terms of this Chapter or Chapters 850-860, the
more stringent of the requirements shall apply. Other changes to regulations
incorporated hereby are as expressly made in this rule.

NOTE: Other requirements for generators appear in other rules of the
Department dealing with specific aspects of hazardous waste management.
See, for example, Chapter 857, Hazardous Waste Manifest Requirements,
Chapter 856, Licensing of Hazardous Waste Facilities, Chapter 854,
Standards for Hazardous Waste Facilities, and Chapter 852, Land Disposal
Restrictions.

3. Definitions

A. Board. "Board" means Board of Environmental Protection.

B. Department. "Department" has the same meaning as in the Rule
Concerning the Processing of Applications and Other Administrative
Matters, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 2.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
     Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


NOTE: As used in this rule, "department" may refer to either the "board" or
the "commissioner". Under certain circumstances, Maine statutes require
that the board, rather than the commissioner, perform duties that may be
described or referenced in this rule (e.g. licensing of commercial hazardous
waste facilities pursuant to 38 M.R.S. §1319-R; licensing of projects of
"statewide significance" pursuant to 38 M.R.S. §341-D).

C. Generator. "Generator" means a person whose act or process produces
a waste which is or may be hazardous or whose act first causes a hazardous
waste to become subject to regulation.

(1) Large Quantity Generator. "Large Quantity Generator" means a
generator that does any one of the following:

(a) Generates 100 kilograms (approximately 27 gallons) or more of
hazardous waste per calendar month,

(b) Generates in a calendar month acute hazardous wastes in quantities
greater than those set forth in Section 3(A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850,

(c) Accumulates more than 600 kilograms (approximately 165 gallons) of
hazardous waste at any one time, or

(d) Accumulates at any one time acute hazardous wastes in quantities
greater than those set forth in Section 3(A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850.

(2) Small Quantity Generator. "Small Quantity Generator" means a
generator that does all of the following:

(a) Generates less than 100 kilograms (approximately 27 gallons) of
hazardous waste per calendar month,

(b) Accumulates a total of no more than 55 gallons (approximately 200
kilograms) of hazardous waste at any one time, and

(c) Generates in a calendar month acute hazardous wastes in quantities no
more than those set forth in Section 3A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850 and
accumulates at any one time acute hazardous wastes in quantities no more
than those set forth in Section 3(A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850.

(3) Small Quantity Generator Plus. "Small Quantity Generator Plus"
means a generator that does all of the following:

(a) Generates less than 100 kilograms (approximately 27 gallons) of
hazardous waste per calendar month,
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
     Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(b) Accumulates over 55 gallons (approximately 200 kilograms), but no
more than 600 kilograms (approximately 165 gallons) of hazardous waste at
any one time, and

(c) Generates in a calendar month acute hazardous wastes in quantities no
more than those set forth in Section 3(A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850 and
accumulates at any one time acute hazardous wastes in quantities no more
than those set forth in Section 3(A)(5)(c) of Chapter 850.

D. Handle. "Handle" means to store, transfer, collect, separate, salvage,
process, reduce, recover, incinerate, treat or dispose of.

E. Site. "Site" means the same or geographically contiguous property which
may be divided by a public or private right-of-way, provided that the
entrance and exit between the properties is at a crossroads intersection and
access is by crossing as opposed to going along the right-of-way.
Noncontiguous properties owned by the same person but connected by a
right-of-way which he controls and to which the public does not have access
is also considered site property.

F. Waste. "Waste" means any useless, unwanted or discarded substance or
material, whether or not such substance or material has any other or future
use and includes any substance or material that is spilled, leaked, pumped,
poured, emitted, disposed, emptied, or dumped onto the land or into the
water or ambient air.

G. Double Walled Tank. "Double Walled Tank" means a tank that is
enclosed within a second outer wall and that includes secondary
containment or a leak detection system that allows for only minimal
discharges during leakage for tank piping. An automatic leak detection
system monitors the cavity between the inner and outer walls of the double
walled tank.

4. Applicability

A. A generator who handles hazardous waste on the site of its generation
also must comply with applicable standards and requirements set forth in
Chapters 850, 852, 854, 855, 856 and 857.

B. Any person who imports hazardous waste from a foreign country into the
State of Maine shall comply with the standards and requirements applicable
to generators established in this rule and in Chapter 857.

C. A farmer who generates waste pesticides in his own use which are
hazardous waste and who complies with all of the requirements of Section
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


10 of this rule is not required to comply with other standards in this rule or
in Chapters 852, 854, 855 and 856 with respect to such pesticides.

5. Hazardous Waste Determination. A person who generates a waste
shall determine if that waste is hazardous by using the following method:

A. First determine if the waste is excluded from regulation under Chapter
850 of the Department's rules.

B. Then determine if the waste is listed as a hazardous waste in Chapter 850
of the Department's rules.

C. If the waste is not listed as a hazardous waste in Chapter 850, the person
shall determine whether the waste is identified by characteristic, as a
hazardous waste in Chapter 850 by either:

(l) Testing the waste according to the methods set forth in Chapter 850, or
according to an equivalent method approved under Chapter 850; or

(2) Applying knowledge of the hazard characteristic of the waste in light of
the materials or the processes used.

6. Identification Numbers

A. No person shall generate hazardous waste without first having obtained a
generator identification number specific for the site of waste generation
except as provided for a small quantity generator below.

(1) The identification number shall be comprised of the identification
number assigned to the generator by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency and/or any identifying number or letter as may be
assigned by the Department.

NOTE: A generator may obtain an EPA identification number by applying to
the Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Remediation and
Waste Management, State House Station #17, Augusta, Maine 04333-0017
using EPA form 8700-12 "Notification of RCRA Subtitle C Activities".

(2) A small quantity generator as defined by Chapter 851, Section 3(C)(2) of
the Department's rules does not require an EPA identification number but is
assigned the state identification number ME X020000000.

B. A generator shall not offer his hazardous wastes to any transporter unless
that transporter has obtained an identification number and shall not offer
hazardous wastes to a waste facility unless the facility has obtained an
identification number or is not required to have such a number.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


C. A generator shall file a subsequent application (notification) of regulated
waste activity to reflect any change in ownership or operation of the site.

NOTE: Changes in operation means changes in operators including tenants
who lease a facility from an owner.

7. Transportation Requirements

A. A generator shall not offer hazardous waste in any quantity to a
transporter who is not licensed by the State of Maine to transport hazardous
waste nor shall he transport the waste himself without a transporter license.

NOTE: Licensing requirements for transporters are set out in Chapter 853,
Licensing of Transporters of Hazardous Waste.

B. A generator shall transport, or offer for transport, hazardous waste only
to a waste facility for hazardous waste which is authorized to handle the
waste under a State program, and if applicable, under the Federal hazardous
waste regulatory program.

8. Pre-Transport Requirements

A. Before a generator removes or allows the removal of hazardous waste
from the site of its generation, he shall:

(1) Package the waste in accordance with the applicable Federal Department
of Transportation regulations on packaging under 49 C.F.R. Parts 173, 178,
and 179;

NOTE: "C.F.R." refers to the Code of Federal Regulations, a publication of
the United States government in which appear all regulations of the Federal
administrative agencies. Copies of the Federal Department of
Transportation regulations referred to above may be obtained from the
United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

(2) Label each package in accordance with the applicable Federal
Department of Transportation regulations on hazardous materials under 49
C.F.R. Part 172;

(3) Mark each package of hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable
Federal Department of Transportation regulations on hazardous materials
under 49 C.F.R. Part 172;

(4) Mark each container of 110 gallons or less used in such transportation
with the following words and information displayed in accordance with the
requirements of 49 C.F.R. 172.304:
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


HAZARDOUS WASTE--Federal Law Prohibits Improper Disposal. If found,
contact the nearest police or public safety authority or the Maine
Department of Environmental Protection (1-800-482-0777) or the nearest
office of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.

Generator's Name & Address _______________________________

_______________________________

Manifest Document Number _______________________________

NOTE: For State-only hazardous wastes, if they also are not DOT regulated
hazardous materials, the requirements of 49 C.F.R. 172.304 do not apply.
Thus for any such wastes, instead of following the marking requirements
specified above, generators should instead mark each container as follows:

State Hazardous Waste - State Law Prohibits Improper Disposal. If found,
contact the nearest police or public safety authority or the Maine
Department of Environmental Protection (1-800-482-0777).

Generator's Name & Address ________________________________

________________________________

Manifest Document Number ________________________________

(5) Placard or offer the initial transporter the appropriate placards according
to Federal Department of Transportation regulations for hazardous
materials under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.

B. A generator may accumulate hazardous waste on the site of its generation
for ninety (90) days or less without a license, provided that:

(1) All such waste is transported off-site before or on the 90th day;

(2) The waste is placed in containers or tanks which meet the requirements
of Section 8(A)(1) of this rule and which are managed in accordance with
standards contained in this rule and Chapter 855, Section 9(C) (containers),
and Chapter 855, Section 9(D) (tanks) except that the requirements of 40
C.F.R. 265.197(c) and 40 C.F.R. 265.200 do not apply.

(3) The date upon which each period of accumulation begins is clearly
marked and visible for inspection on each container or tank and while being
accumulated on-site each container or tank is labeled or marked clearly with
the words, "Hazardous Waste";
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
     Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(4) Each container is properly labeled and marked as required by Section
8(A)(2), (3) and (4) of this rule prior to shipment offsite; and

(5) The generator complies with all requirements imposed by 40 C.F.R.
264.16, 264.31-264.37, and 264.51-264.56 which are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference, provided however, that the reference in 40 C.F.R.
264.52(b) to "Part 112 of this Chapter, or Part 1510 of Chapter V" shall read
"Part 112 or Part 1510 of volume 40 of EPA's Code of Federal Regulations" or
the provisions of 38 M.R.S. §1317 et seq. and the rules promulgated
thereunder, whichever is more stringent.

NOTE: Generators using hazardous waste compactors exempt from
licensing under Chapter 856, Section 6(E) shall comply with all the
requirements of Chapter 851 for the on-site accumulation of hazardous
waste in tanks.

C. No generator shall accumulate hazardous waste for more than 90 days
without a license, unless the Department grants an extension of up to 30
days due to unforeseen, temporary, and uncontrolled circumstances. A
generator who does accumulate hazardous waste for more than ninety (90)
days without an extension granted by the Department is an operator of a
storage facility for hazardous waste and, as such, is subject to the
requirements of Chapters 854, 855 and 856 of the Department's rules except
that:

A generator may accumulate on-site as much as 55 gallons of each
hazardous waste or one quart of each acutely hazardous waste identified or
listed in Chapter 850 of the Department's rules in containers labeled with
the words "hazardous waste" at a satellite accumulation area, without a
license or interim status and without complying with Section 8(B)(1) of this
rule, provided the generator complies with all other requirements of this
rule. A satellite accumulation area must be at or near any point of generation
where wastes initially accumulate, which is under the control of the operator
of the process generating the waste. A generator who accumulates hazardous
waste or acutely hazardous waste under this subsection must upon
accumulating either 55 gallons (200 kg) of a hazardous waste or 1 quart (1
kg) of a acutely hazardous waste immediately label the container with the
date (accumulation start date) and relocate the container to the generator
storage facility within 72 hours. At such time the generator shall comply
with Section 8(B)(1) of this rule.

NOTE: Satellite accumulation areas are required to meet all applicable
generator standards except for the 90-day accumulation time limitation,
including but not limited to labeling (except the accumulation start date is
not required until the quantity limit is reached), container management, and
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
     Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


weekly inspection requirements. For the purposes of this section, "all other
requirements of this rule" means 8(B)(2),13(B)(1), 13(C)(1), (3), (4), 13(D)(1)
and (2).

9. Record keeping and Reporting

A. A generator must keep a copy of all test results, waste analyses and other
determinations made in accordance with Section 5 of this rule for a period of
time not less than ten (10) years from the date that the waste was last sent to
on-site or off-site handling.

B. A generator must retain copies of all reports filed with the Department or
the United States Environmental Protection Agency for a period of time not
less than ten (10) years from the due date of the report.

C. A generator must retain the log books required under Section 13(D) for a
minimum of one (1) year.

D. The periods of retention referred to in the previous paragraphs are
extended automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement
action regarding regulated activity or as requested by the Commissioner,
Department of Environmental Protection or by the Regional Administrator
or Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.

E. A generator who removes or allows the removal of his hazardous waste
from the site of its generation shall submit an Annual Report:

(1) On forms specified by the Department and containing information
required by the Department as specified on those forms.

NOTE: Required information shall include that information required by
EPA Form 8700-13A and 40 C.F.R. 262.41(a)(1)-(8) as a minimum. It is the
Department's intention to also require appropriate annual information on a
generator's progress towards meeting the hazardous waste reduction goals
specified in the Maine Toxics Use Reduction Act.

(2) To the Department;

(3) No later than March 1st for the preceding calendar year.

F. A generator who handles his hazardous waste on the site of its generation
shall submit an Annual Report covering those wastes including any
universal wastes:

(1) In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 854, Section 6C(11);
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) To the Department;

(3) No later than March 1st for the preceding calendar year.

Except that a generator shall not be required to file an annual report if the
only hazardous wastes generated are universal wastes.

G. A generator shall comply with the applicable reporting and record
keeping requirements of Chapter 857, Hazardous Waste Manifest
Requirements, and 856, Licensing of Hazardous Waste Facilities; Chapter
854, Standards for Hazardous Waste Facilities; and 852, Land Disposal
Restrictions.

H. The Department, as it deems necessary for the effective management of
hazardous waste, may require generators to furnish additional reports
concerning quantities and handling of wastes identified or listed in Chapter
850 of the Department's rules.

10. Farmers. A farmer, disposing of waste pesticides from his own use on
his own farm which are hazardous wastes, is not required to comply with the
standards in this rule or other standards in Chapters 852, 854, 855 or 856
for those wastes provided he collects wash and rinse water from the cleaning
of spray equipment and triple rinses each emptied pesticide container in
accordance with Chapter 850, Section 3(C)(4)(c) of the Department's rules
and disposes of the pesticide residues on his own farm in a manner
consistent with the disposal instructions on the pesticide label. The
containers must then be disposed of in accordance with rules administered
by the Pesticide Control Board, Maine Department of Agriculture.

NOTE: The Pesticide Control Board phone number is (207) 287-2731.

11. Closure

A. A generator, who no longer generates waste at a site, shall remove all
hazardous waste and hazardous waste residues to a facility licensed to
handle the waste. Remaining containers, tanks, liners, bases, materials,
equipment, structures and soil containing or contaminated with hazardous
waste or hazardous waste residues shall be decontaminated or disposed of at
a facility licensed to handle the waste, except as provided in paragraph (B).
A generator shall provide 45 days written notice to the Department prior to
closure and shall submit to the Department, within 10 days of completion of
closure, certification that closure was completed in accordance with the
provisions of this rule. The certification shall be made by the generator and
by an independent State of Maine registered professional engineer and shall
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


be submitted within ninety (90) days from the date when wastes were no
longer generated at the site.

B. If a generator conducting closure of a tank system demonstrates that all
contaminated soil cannot be practicably removed or decontaminated as
required by paragraph (A) above, then the generator must close the tank
system and perform post-closure care in accordance with the closure and
post-closure requirements that apply to landfills under Chapter 855, Section
9(H). In addition, for the purposes of closure, post-closure, and financial
responsibility, such a tank system is then considered to be a landfill, and the
generator must meet all the requirements for landfills in Chapter 855,
Sections 9(A)(15) and (16).

C. As part of the written notice prior to closure in paragraph (A), the
generator shall provide the Department with a detailed summary of all past
or present releases of hazardous waste or constituents from tanks or
containers used to accumulate hazardous waste under this Chapter. Based
upon this summary, the frequency and nature of releases, whether the
releases were addressed under a Department authorized remediation plan,
and other available information, the Department may require the generator
to prepare a closure plan for Department review and approval prior to the
initiation of closure operations. The Department will notify the generator
within 30 days of a properly filed closure notice if a closure plan will be
required to be filed with the Department.

D. Change of site or installation ownership, or the vacating of the site by the
generator shall constitute cessation of generation and shall initiate closure of
all the units which will not continue to be used.

NOTE: Partial closures are required for those units that will not be used by a
new owner or tenant.

12. Prohibitions

A. No generator may treat or dispose of hazardous waste on-site unless
licensed to do so pursuant to Chapter 856 of the Department's Rules, except
as provided in Chapter 856, Section 6(E).

B. The storage of hazardous waste in an underground or in-ground tank is
prohibited after December 31, 1987, except:

A hazardous waste which is hazardous because of its ignitability may be
accumulated and stored in underground or in-ground tanks if such storage
is in double walled tanks meeting the requirements of 40 C.F.R.
265.193(e)(3), which are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


NOTE: Tanks which have previously held hazardous wastes are required to
be closed under the provisions of this Rule.

C. For generators that store hazardous wastes in excess of 5,000 gallons at
any one time, no storage shall occur unless licensed under Chapter 856 of
the Department's rules:

(1) on land defined as a wetland under statutes or regulations administered
by the Department, Department of Conservation, Department of Inland
Fisheries and Wildlife, Department of Marine Resources, or the State
Planning Office; or

(2) on land that overlies any portion of or surface or subsurface sand and
gravel aquifer or a high yield aquifer, unless the storage area is underlain by
a synthetic liner which meets the design requirements of 854,8B(4).

D. No generator may discharge hazardous waste via a sewer system
containing domestic sewage to a publicly owned treatment works (POTW)
unless the generator has received an abbreviated permit under Chapter 856
and the discharge is in compliance with such license or if the generator is
eligible for an exemption pursuant to Chapter 850, Section 3(A)(4)(a)(ii).

13. Management Standards

A. Performance Standards. Generators shall manage their waste to
prevent or minimize risk to the environment.

B. Design Standards

(1) A generator must accumulate and store its containerized hazardous
waste upon a base which is a firm working surface, such as asphalt or
concrete, which is impervious and which must be kept entire and which is
constructed of a minimum thickness of four (4) inches and shall be
constructed to prevent spillage from leaving the area.

NOTE: Examples of such a structure are a base constructed with a raised
berm of at least six (6) inches around the entire facility or a location that is
enclosed with a roof and walls.

(2) Each building or separate container storage area must have a
containment and collection system the capacity of which must exceed 20%
of the total capacity of all containers and tanks used to store wastes or 110%
of the capacity of the largest container or tank, whichever is greater. This
system must also provide for sufficient freeboard to allow for containment
and collection of precipitation resulting from a 24 hour, 25 year storm,
unless the storage facility is enclosed.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) A tank must be designed and installed so that it can be fully inspected for
structural integrity, deterioration, and leaks, except that a tank whose base
cannot be fully inspected must be designed and installed to meet the
requirements of 40 C.F.R. 265.193(e)(3) for double walled tanks, which is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.

(4) Uncovered tanks must be designed to assure at least 2 feet of freeboard
at all times.

(5) Overtopping of tanks during continuous feed must be prevented by a
system of automatic shutoff or by automatic diversion of the waste feed into
a tank having at least 30 percent of the volume of the primary tank.

C. Operation

(1) A container must not be used for the storage of hazardous waste for a
period of time exceeding the design life of the container.

(2) Any pipeline and pipeline valves that transfers hazardous waste to or
from a tank must be inspected and pressure tested at least annually or tested
at least annually by a method reviewed and approved by the Department to
determine structural integrity. All tanks and piping valves must be internally
inspected at least annually to determine fitness for use, except for the tank
portion of double walled tanks with continuous interstitial monitoring which
must be tested in accordance with Chapter 691, Section 7(C)(2) of the
Regulation for Registration, Installation, Operation & Closure of
Underground Oil Storage Facilities. The date of the most recent inspection
and testing of a tank must be painted in a prominent location on the tank. A
tank or pipeline that fails the test or is determined to be unsafe shall be
removed or repaired to the satisfaction of the Department. Results which
show failure of a tank or piping or that are shown through an inspection to
be unsafe shall be submitted to the Department within 10 days of the tank
testing or inspection. A log of the dates and results of all inspections and
testing must be maintained pursuant to Sections 9(C) and 13(D)(3).

(3) Hazardous waste must not be stored in containers or tanks which are
rusted, bulging or leaking.

(4) Containers or tanks must be compatible with the type of waste stored
therein.

(5) Containers or tanks used to store hazardous waste must not be used to
store foodstuffs or animal feed or any substance likely to come into contact
with foodstuffs or animal feed.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
      Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(6) Containers or tanks holding incompatible hazardous wastes must not be
stored in the same enclosure, building or structure unless they are
segregated in a manner that prevents the wastes from coming into contact
with one another under any circumstance, including simultaneous leakage
or failure of a container(s) or tank(s).

(7) All hazardous waste containers must be stored in a manner that allows
access for inspection and for remedial action if any container is found to be
rusting, bulging or leaking or waste is spilled or discharged. In any event:

(a) Containers with a capacity of ten (10) gallons or more must not be
stacked in rows in excess of four (4) wide and two (2) high.

(b) Aisle space between rows of containers must be sufficient to allow the
unobstructed movement of personnel, fire protection equipment, spill
control equipment and decontamination equipment to any area of facility
operation in any emergency but in no event shall the aisle space be less than
thirty six (36) inches wide. Rows not exceeding a single container in width
and two (2) high may be stacked adjacent to walls or other components of
the storage facility.

(c) The facility must be established, constructed, altered and operated in
compliance with the requirements of:

(i) 40 C.F.R. Part 264.14, Security;

(ii) 40 C.F.R. Part 264, Subpart C. Preparedness and Prevention, and in
addition, the precautions required to be taken by 40 C.F.R. Part 264.17 must
meet applicable requirements of codes, standards and rules of the
Department of Public Safety (State Fire Marshal's Office), the aid
agreements required by 264.37 must be in writing, on file with each party to
the agreement and with the Department, readily accessible to facility
personnel, and reviewed and updated annually.

D. Inspection, Surveying and Record keeping

(1) Weekly inspections of all containers of hazardous waste, including
containers at satellite accumulation areas, shall be made and recorded in a
log book which shall be kept at the facility to ensure at least the following:

(a) No containers are rusting, bulging or leaking.

(b) All hazardous waste containers are stored and managed according to 7(a)
and 7(b) above.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 851 Standards for Generators of
     Hazardous Waste (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) The log book shall contain the name of the person conducting the
inspection, the date and time of the inspection, and the conclusions or
results of each inspection.

(3) The annual tank, valve and pipe testing and inspection, results shall be
recorded in the log book.

E. Air, Ground Water and Surface Water Monitoring. The Board
may require ground water, surface water and air quality monitoring in
accordance with the requirements of Sections 8(D), 8(E), and 8(F) of
Chapter 856 of the Department's rules if it determines that such monitoring
is necessary to ensure protection of public health and safety or of the
environment.

AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S. §§ 1301 et seq.

EFFECTIVE DATE: November 24, 1980

AMENDED March 23, 1983

February 10, 1985

November 30, 1986

March 16, 1994

EFFECTIVE DATE

(ELECTRONIC CONVERSION): May 4, 1996

AMENDED: January 23, 2001

MINOR CORRECTIONS: March 5, 2001

July 23, 2008 - informational note added to Section 8(4)

AMENDED: September 3, 2013 - filing 2013-217

June 11, 2018 - filing 2018-099
