    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
   Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                            Edition))
Chapter 600: OIL DISCHARGE PREVENTION AND POLLUTION
CONTROL RULES FOR MARINE OIL TERMINALS, TRANSPORTATION
PIPELINES AND VESSELS

SUMMARY: This chapter sets forth minimum design and operating
requirements for marine oil terminals and intrastate pipelines. Separate
sections are included for vessel operation and navigation, siting
requirements, design and construction standards for new and existing
marine oil terminal facilities, staff training and safety, and closure of tanks
and facilities.

1. Preamble. It is the purpose of this chapter, consistent with legislative
policy, to provide necessary oil spill prevention and control rules for all
facilities and operations associated with marine oil terminals, intrastate
pipelines and vessels, so as to prevent discharges of oil to the waters of the
State.

2. Definitions. The following terms as used in this chapter have the
following meanings:

A. Aboveground oil storage tank. "Aboveground oil storage tank", also
referred to as a "tank", means any stationary container, of which more than
90% is above the surface of the ground and is used or intended to be used
for the storage or supply of oil. Included in this definition are any tanks
situated upon or above the surface of a floor and in such a manner that they
may be readily inspected. For the purpose of this chapter, aboveground oil
storage tanks do not include aboveground propane storage tanks.

B. Alter. "Alter" means any enlargement, upgrading, repair or removal of a
storage tank system or any change in the configuration of the piping, tanks,
diking or the replacement of any tank. The term "alteration" has the same
meaning.

C. Approved. "Approved" means approved by the Commissioner or the
commissioner's designee in writing or orally with written confirmation as
soon as practicable.

D. Bulk. "Bulk" means material in any quantity that is shipped, stored, or
handled without benefit of package, label, mark or count and carried in
integral or fixed independent tanks.

E. Bulk oil or oil carried in bulk or as cargo. "Bulk oil" or "oil carried
in bulk" or as "cargo" means any oil not carried as fuel for bunkering or
recovered incident to oil spill response activities.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
F. Cathodically protected. "Cathodically protected" means the use of a
technique, consistent with the National Association of Corrosion Engineers
publication, "Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground
Liquid Storage Systems, RP-100-97, 1997 as amended, to prevent the
corrosion of a metal surface by making that surface the cathode of an
electrochemical cell.

G. Cathodic protection assessment. "Cathodic protection assessment"
means an analysis to determine the need for cathodic protection in order to
protect a tank bottom from corrosion. This assessment will be based upon a
corrosion survey that includes soil analysis and resistivity measurements,
operating records, corrosion history, corrosion allowance, prior test results
with similar tank systems in similar environments and current and future
plans for the tank.

H. Cathodic protection tester. "Cathodic protection tester" means, at a
minimum, a person certified as a Senior Corrosion Technologist, Corrosion
Technologist, or Corrosion Technician by the National Association of
Corrosion Engineers.

I. Combustible liquid. "Combustible liquid" means a liquid which has a
flash point at or above 100° F (37.8° C). Combustible liquids are subdivided
as follows:

(1) Class II liquids include those having flash points at or above 100° F
(37.8° C) and below 140° F (60° C).

(2) Class III A liquids include those having flash points at or above 140° F
(60° C) and below 200° F (93° C).

(3) Class IIIB liquids include those having flash points at or above 200° F
(93° C).

J. Commissioner. "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection.

K. Department. "Department" means the Department of Environmental
Protection composed of the Board of Environmental Protection and the
Commissioner.

L. Discharge. "Discharge" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, or dumping either directly or indirectly to the waters of
the State of Maine.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))
M. Emergent vegetation. "Emergent vegetation" means erect, rooted and
herbaceous plants growing in saturated or permanently flooded areas that
do not tolerate prolonged inundation of the entire plant.

N. Existing aboveground oil storage tank. "Existing aboveground oil
storage tank" means an aboveground oil storage tank that was constructed
before the effective date of this chapter.

O. Existing oil terminal facility. "Existing oil terminal facility" means a
facility that held a valid oil terminal facility license on the effective date of
this chapter

P. Existing oil and chemical handling areas. "Existing oil and
chemical handling areas" are the areas inside the existing footprint of the
facility. The existing footprint includes the developed areas of the facility
such as the dike, tank, piping, and loading rack areas.

Q. Facility. "Facility" or "Oil Terminal Facility" means any facility of any
kind and related appurtenances, located in, on or under the surface of any
land or water, including submerged lands, which is used or capable of being
used for the purpose of transferring, processing or refining oil, or for the
purpose of storing the same, but does not include any facility used or
capable of being used to store no more than 1,500 barrels (63,000 gallons),
nor any facility not engaged in the transfer of oil to or from waters of the
State. A vessel is considered an oil terminal facility only in the event of a
vessel-to-vessel transfer of oil, but only that vessel going to or coming from
the place of vessel-to-vessel transfer and a permanent or fixed oil terminal
facility. The term does not include vessels engaged in oil spill response
activities.

R. Facility closure. "Facility closure" means closure of a facility in a
manner prescribed by subsection 12(D) of this chapter.

S. Flammable liquid. A "flammable liquid" is a liquid having a flash point
below 100° F (37.8° C) and having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 lbs.
per sq. inch (absolute) (2,068 mm Hg) at 100° F (37.8° C). Flammable
(Class I) liquids are subdivided as follows:

(1) Class IA liquids include those having flash points below 73° F (22.8° C)
and having a boiling point below 100° F (37.8° C).

(2) Class IB liquids include those having flash points below 73° F (22.8° C)
and having a boiling point at or above 100° F (37.8° C).
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(3) Class IC liquids include those having flash points at or above 73° F (22.8°
C) and below 100° F (37.8° C).

T. 100-year Flood plain. "100-year flood plain" means the 100-year flood
plain as shown on Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood
Insurance Rate Maps or Flood Hazard Boundary Maps, or the flood of
record, or in the absence of these, by soil types identified as recent flood
plain soils.

U. Handling. "Handling" means the storing, transferring, collecting,
separating, salvaging, processing, reducing, recovering, incinerating,
treating, disposing or transporting of oil.

V. Internal tank bottom liner. An "internal tank bottom liner" is an
internal, bonded barrier on the tank bottom as described in American
Petroleum Institute 652, Recommended Practice, Lining of Aboveground
Storage Tank Bottoms, 2nd Ed. (December 1997).

W. Intrastate pipeline. "Intrastate pipeline" means a pipeline or that part
of a pipeline that is used in the transportation of oil used in commerce
within the State.

X. Monitoring well. "Monitoring well" means a dug or drilled, cased well
or other device used to detect oil in ground water that can be used for
detecting the presence of at least one-eighth of an inch of oil.

Y. New oil terminal facility. "New oil terminal facility" means an oil
terminal facility whose application for a license is received after the effective
date of this chapter.

Z. New aboveground oil storage tank. "New aboveground oil storage
tank" means an aboveground oil storage tank permitted for construction
after the effective date of this chapter.

AA. Oil. "Oil" means oil, petroleum products and their oil by-products of
any kind and in any form including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel, oil,
sludge, oil refuse, oil mixed with other wastes, crude oils, oil additives, and
all other liquid hydrocarbons regardless of specific gravity.

BB. Oil/water separator. "Oil/water separator" means a device used to
separate and remove oil and oily wastes from oil and water mixtures.

CC. Owner or operator. "Owner or operator" means any person owning
or operating an oil terminal facility or pipeline, whether by lease, contract or
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
any other form of agreement or a person in control of, or having
responsibility for, the daily operation of an oil storage facility.

DD. Owner. "Owner" means the person who alone or in conjunction with
others owns an oil terminal facility.

EE. Person. "Person" means any natural person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, trust, the State of Maine and any agency thereof,
governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, the United States of
America and any agency thereof and any other legal entity.

FF. Pipelines. "Pipelines" means all parts of an intrastate oil pipeline
facility including line pipe, valves, and other appurtenances connected to
line pipe, pumping units, fabricated assemblies associated with pumping
units, metering and delivery stations and fabricated assemblies therein.

GG. Piping. "Piping" means the piping and accessories within a facility
used for the conveyance of oil between tanks or between tanks and loading
and unloading points.

HH. Piping Run. A "piping run" means the piping between a bolted
flange, valve, or pump.

II. Piping tightness test. "Piping tightness test" means a method to test
the integrity of systems piping. The integrity of piping systems must be
assured by one or more of the following: pressure testing, volumetric testing
or internal instrument inspection devices designed to verify the structural
integrity of the pipe by measuring pipe wall thickness and indicating
geometric irregularities of the pipe line.

JJ. Private drinking water supply. "Private drinking water supply"
means any dug, drilled or other type of well or spring or other source of
water used for human or livestock consumption and that is not a public
water supply.

KK. Public drinking water supply. "Public drinking water supply" has
the same meaning as "public water system" in 22 M.R.S. Section 2601(8).

LL. Qualified person. "Qualified person" means an individual thoroughly
familiar with the State spill prevention rules, and the specific maintenance
procedures, inspection schedules, and oil spill response procedures in use at
the facility where the individual is employed.

MM. Reconstructed tank. "Reconstructed tank" means any tank that has
been dismantled, relocated to a new location and reassembled.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                    Edition))
NN. Related appurtenances. "Related appurtenances" means all items
pertaining to and making the oil terminal facility function. The term does
not include day tanks that are not connected to pipelines, racks, or storage
tanks which receive oil from marine transport. For example, tanks supplying
start-up fuel for electrical generation and that are not connected to the
marine oil terminal portions of the facility through pipelines or other means
of oil transfer, and that are in no way related to the function of an oil
terminal facility, are not considered "related appurtenances".

OO. Release prevention barriers (RPB). "Release prevention barriers"
include steel bottoms, synthetic materials, clay liners and all other barriers
or combination of barriers placed in the bottom of or under an aboveground
storage tank that have these functions:

(1) preventing the escape of oil, and

(2) containing or channeling released material for leak detection.

This process is covered in detail in American Petroleum Institute Standard
650, 10th Ed. (October 1998).

PP. Secondary containment. "Secondary containment" means a system
installed so that any material that is discharged or has discharged from the
primary containment is prevented from reaching the soil or ground water
outside the system for the anticipated period of time necessary to detect and
recover the discharged material. Such a system may include, but is not
limited to, impervious liners, double-walled tanks and piping, or any other
method approved by the Commissioner that is technically feasible and
effective, and meets the requirements of this chapter.

QQ. Significant ground water aquifer. "Significant ground water
aquifer" means a porous formation of ice-contact and glacial outwash sand
and gravel or fractured bedrock, as identified by the current Maine
Geological Survey maps, that contains significant recoverable quantities of
water which is likely to provide drinking water supplies.

NOTE: Sand and Gravel Aquifer Maps are available from the Maine
Geological Survey, Department of Conservation, State House Station #22,
Augusta, Maine 04333.

RR. Tank barge. "Tank barge" means any tank vessel on departure from
or approach to oil terminal facilities or refineries, not equipped with a
means of self propulsion.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                    Edition))
SS. Tank vessel. "Tank vessel" means any vessel on departure from or
approach to oil terminal facilities or refineries, that is constructed or
adapted to carry, or that carries, oil in bulk as cargo or cargo residue. For the
purpose of this chapter, tank vessel does not include any vessel engaged in
oil spill response activities, including response-related training.

TT. Temporarily out of service. "Temporarily out of service" means a
facility or portion thereof no longer in use. Facilities or tanks which are used
for seasonal storage, for surcharge storage, or for standby storage, are not
considered out of service.

UU. Thermal relief. "Thermal relief" means the method of relieving the
excess pressure caused by the heating action of the sun on piping and
equipment.

VV. Transfer. "Transfer" means both on-loading and off-loading between
an oil terminal facility and vessel, vessel and vessel, and oil terminal facility
and vehicle.

WW. Transport. "Transport" means to convey oil in or on a vehicle,
exclusive of the fuel carried for use in the vehicle.

XX. Transportation pipeline. "Transportation pipeline" means the
continuous piping systems used for the intrastate conveyance of oil outside
of the boundaries of an oil terminal.

YY. Underway. As used in this chapter, "underway" means that a vessel is
not at anchor, or made fast to the shore, or aground.

ZZ. Vehicle. "Vehicle" means a tank truck, stake truck, trailer, semi-trailer,
tractor or other conveyance and appurtenances thereto designed for or
capable of transporting oil, other than fuel used in the operation of that
vehicle.

AAA. Vessel. "Vessel" means every description of water craft or other
contrivance used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on
water, whether self propelled or otherwise, including, but not limited to,
barges and tugs, other than a public vessel.

BBB. Waters of the State. "Waters of the State" means any and all
surface waters that are contained within, flow through, or border upon this
State or any portion thereof, including, but not limited to, those portions of
the Atlantic Ocean within the jurisdiction of the State.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                              Edition))
NOTE: The following acronyms used in this chapter stand for the following
items:

(1) ANSI. American National Standards Institute

(2) API. American Petroleum Institute

(3) ASME. American Society of Mechanical Engineers

(4) ASTM. American Society of Testing and Materials

(5) CFR. Code of Federal Regulations

(6) GRI. Geosynthetic Research Institute

(7) M.R.S. Maine Revised Statutes

(8) NACE. National Association of Corrosion Engineers

(9) NFPA. National Fire Protection Association

(10) NSF. National Sanitation Foundation

(11) PEI. Petroleum Equipment Institute

(12) POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works

(13) STI. Steel Tank Institute

(14) UL. Underwriters Laboratories

(15) OPA 90. Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Public Law 101-380, Section
4202

3. Applicability. This chapter applies to oil terminal facilities, intrastate
pipelines, vessels licensed by the Department involved in lightering and
vessels on departure from or approach to oil terminal facilities and
refineries.

A. Oil Terminal Facilities. This chapter applies to new or existing marine
oil terminal facilities used or capable of being used to store more than 1,500
barrels of oil.

(1) Existing facilities. Existing facilities must comply with this chapter,
unless otherwise stated in this chapter.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(2) Responsibility. The standards set forth in this chapter do not relieve the
owner or operator from responsibility for compliance with other state and
federal laws governing the safe storage and handling of oil.

B. Intrastate Pipelines. This chapter applies to intrastate pipelines from
terminals to remote locations and includes federal facilities.

C. Vessels. This chapter applies to vessels licensed by the Department
pursuant to 38 M.R.S. Section 545(4) to conduct lightering operations in
waters of the State of Maine, and tank vessels and tank barges on departure
from or approach to oil terminal facilities and refineries licensed by the
Department.

Where provisions of this chapter differ from other regulations, the more
stringent regulations apply. In the case of any conflict between this chapter
and Federal law or with a mandatory rule, regulation, or order of the Federal
Government or its agencies where compliance with both is impossible, such
Federal law, rule, regulation, or order governs.

4. Oil Discharges

A. Oil Discharge Reporting Procedure. In the event of any discharge
prohibited by 38 M.R.S. Section 543, the person, firm or corporation
responsible for the discharge shall immediately undertake to remove such
discharge as required by 38 M.R.S. Section 548. Responsibility for removal
remains with the person, firm or corporation responsible for the illegal
discharge. In addition to the regular procedures, the following actions must
be taken:

(1) Telephone Report. An initial telephone report of any discharge must be
made to the Commissioner as soon as practicable but within two hours. The
report must include:

(a) Time of discharge;

(b) Location of discharge;

(c) Type and amount of oil;

(d) Name and telephone number of person making report; and

(e) Other pertinent information.

(2) Written Reports. Once removal of the discharge has been completed, the
person, firm or corporation responsible for the discharge shall prepare a
complete written report of the occurrence and submit that report to the
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
Commissioner within 10 days. If circumstances make a complete report
impossible, a partial report must be submitted. This report must include,
but not be limited to, the following information:

(a) Date, time, and place of discharge;

(b) Name of parties involved;

(c) Amount and type of oil discharged;

(d) Complete description of circumstances causing discharge;

(e) Procedures, methods and precautions instituted to prevent a similar
occurrence from recurring;

(f) Recommendations to the Commissioner for changes in rules or operating
procedures;

(g) Name and address of any person, firm or corporation that may be
affected by the discharge; and

(h) In the case of any oil discharge into the waters of the State from an
intrastate pipeline, oil terminal facility, or vessel going to or coming from a
facility, the person, firm or corporation responsible for the discharge shall
submit a report, in writing, to the Commissioner, setting forth the amount of
oil recovered.

(3) Oil Discharge Containment and Clean-up. 38 M.R.S. Section 548
requires any person discharging oil, or its by-products in a manner
prohibited by 38 M.R.S. Section 543, to undertake immediately to remove
the discharge to the Commissioner's satisfaction. Nothing in the rules or
regulations adopted by the Board is intended to relieve any person from this
responsibility. Any person who has discharged or caused to be discharged oil
as prohibited by law shall contain such oil and remove it from the waters of
the State as quickly and completely as possible.

(4) Delegation of Supervisory Authority. The Commissioner or the
Commissioner's authorized representative shall receive reports of oil
discharges and shall supervise or undertake the removal of any oil discharge,
where such actions by the Commissioner are authorized under 38 M.R.S.
Section 548, and upon the completion of removal of any discharge the
Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative may
indicate satisfaction with such removal.

(5) Notification of the Commissioner in no way should delay the proper
notification of other authorities such as local and federal agencies
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
concerned. Protection of life and property by proper notification and action
is mandatory and should be accomplished in the most expeditious manner
possible.

B. Vessel Cleanup. Before any vessel involved in a transfer operation may
leave a land based oil terminal facility, all drip pans, hoses, and other
transfer equipment must be cleaned and any oil spilled on the deck, topside
piping or equipment, or the exterior of the hull must be removed.

5. Vessel to Vessel Transfer Areas and Hussey Sound Limitation

A. Hussey Sound Limitation. No tank ship or tank barge containing oil
cargoes which is actually drawing 40 or more feet shall transit Hussey
sound, Casco Bay (port of Portland) regardless of visibility, unless it would
be abeam of Soldier's Ledge Buoy within one-half (½) hour of the time of
high tide.

B. Vessel to Vessel Transfer Area - Casco Bay. A tank vessel
anchorage area is established one mile square starting at Hussey Sound
Buoy 12, Lat. 43° 42' 10" North, Long. 70° 90' 46" West(formerly Little
Chebeaque Island Shoal Buoy 6)thence one mile true North to Lat. 43° 43'
10" North, Long. 70° 90' 46" West; thence one mile true West to Lat. 43° 43'
10" North, Long. 70° 11' 90" West; thence one mile true South to Lat. 43° 42'
10" North, Long. 70° 11' 90" West; thence one mile true East to the point of
origin.

C. Vessel to Vessel Transfer Area - Penobscot Bay. The following
tank vessel anchorage areas are established:

(1) The area designated for vessel-to-vessel transfers of bulk oil in Penobscot
Bay area is a circle 2 nautical miles in diameter with the center at Latitude
44° 24' 15" North and Longitude 68° 55' 25" West;

(2) A second area designated for vessel-to-vessel transfers of bulk oil in
Penobscot Bay area is a circle of one nautical mile in diameter with the
center at Latitude 44° 25' 00" North and Longitude 68° 50' 45" West;

D. Vessel Transfers While at Anchor. Vessel to vessel transfers may be
carried on only in anchorage areas designated by the Department.

This paragraph does not apply to the transfer of fuel for a vessel's own use.

6. Siting Requirements

A. New Land Based Oil Terminal Facilities
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(1) Facility Set-Backs. Every new aboveground oil storage tank operating at
pressures less than 2.5 psig must be located in accordance with National
Fire Protection Association 30, 1996 Ed.

Vertical tanks storing liquids must be separated in accordance with NFPA
30. Tanks used only for storing Class III B liquids (Flash point at or above
200o F) may be spaced no less than 3 feet apart unless within a diked area
or a drainage path for a tank storing Class I or II liquid in which case the
provisions of National Fire Protection Association 30, 1996 Ed. apply.

(2) Facility Location. New oil terminal facilities must not be located within
the following areas:

(a) Within 3,000 feet of a surface water body intake used as a public
drinking water supply;

(b) Within 600 feet of an existing private drinking water supply, except a
facility's own well;

(c) Within 1,000 feet of a significant ground water aquifer; or

(d) Within 1,000 feet of an essential habitat as mapped by the Department
of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife, or refuge, park, preserve, or similar site
when such site is state or federally designated.

Undeveloped areas of property and non-oil or non-chemical handling areas
are not included in the definition of "oil terminal facilities" for the purposes
of this paragraph.

(3) A new oil terminal facility located as set forth below is presumed to pose
a serious threat to public health or welfare or to the environment such that a
license for a facility cannot be issued. The presumption applies if a facility is
located:

(a) In a 100 year flood plain, unless suitably elevated to prevent flooding
from the 100 year flood, except for piers and piping from a pier to the
terminal;

(b) Within 1,000 feet of a freshwater wetland, great pond, or river, stream or
brook (as defined in 38 M.R.S. Section 480-B) not used as a public drinking
water supply, except for piers and piping from a pier to the terminal;

(c) Within 1,000 feet of the spring high tide line of coastal wetlands (as
defined in 38 M.R.S. Section 480-B) with a salt or brackish water regime
(salinity equal to or greater than 0.5 parts per 1000) that contain emergent
vegetation tolerant of salt water occurring primarily in a salt water or
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
estuarine habitat including, but not limited to, marshes and salt meadows;
or

(d) Within 1,000 feet of an eel grass bed.

(4) An applicant seeking a license to establish, construct, alter, or operate a
facility in such a location listed in paragraph (3) above may overcome the
presumption in paragraph (3) above by persuasive evidence that either:

(a) the facility is unique in some way that allows for compliance with the
intent of this chapter through an alternative design, operation, or siting
proposal which provides an equivalent level of protection as the siting
provision in this chapter would provide; or

(b) the facility environment is unique in some way such that a valuable
resource will not be negatively affected by the proposed siting.

B. Existing Land Based Oil Terminal Facilities

(1) Modifications to Existing Facilities. New tanks located inside the existing
oil and chemical handling areas of existing facilities are not subject to the
siting criteria of section 6 (A). New tanks located outside the existing oil and
chemical handling areas are permitted provided they comply with one of the
following:

(a) are located in compliance with the siting criteria;

(b) cannot meet all the siting criteria, in which case the owner or operator
demonstrated to the Department that the new tank will be constructed in
the location which satisfies the greatest number of siting criteria; or

(c) the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Department's satisfaction
that although contiguous land is available which meets the siting criteria,
compliance with the siting criteria through use of this location would not be
economically feasible or would create significant operational problems.

For the purposes of Sections 6(B)(1)(b) and (c) above, land not contiguous to
the existing oil and chemical handling area where the oil terminal owner or
operator intends to build on land not already owned by the terminal owner
or operator would not be included for consideration. A private or public
right of way shall not by itself be considered as dividing a property into
separate noncontiguous properties.

(2) Abandoned Facilities. Existing facilities that have been abandoned or
closed for more than 20 years are prohibited from reuse unless the facility
siting complies with the rules of Section 6(A) of this chapter.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))
7. New Land Based Oil Terminal Facility Minimum Design And
Construction Standards

A. Prior Approval. Prior approval for construction of new facilities is
required from the Department.

B. Aboveground Oil Storage Tanks

(1) Design and Construction Standards. Aboveground oil storage tanks must
be constructed of steel and meet or exceed one of the following design and
manufacturing standards:

(a) UL, Standard for Steel Aboveground Tanks for Flammable and
Combustible Liquids, No. 142, 1993 Ed. (UL No. 142);

(b) API, Standard No. 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, 10th Ed.
(October 1998);

(c) API, Standard No. 620, Recommended Rules for Design and
Construction of Large, Welded, Low-Pressure Storage Tanks, 9th Ed.
(February 1996).

(2) Prohibited Tanks. Bolted or riveted construction is not acceptable for
new or reconstructed tanks.

(3) Leak Detection. Facilities must include a system of visual leak
monitoring for tanks greater than 660 gallons between the tank bottom and
the impermeable containment as detailed in API Standard 650, Welded
Steel Tanks for oil storage, 10th Ed. (October 1998).

(4) Corrosion Protection. All tanks must have a cathodic protection system
for the portion of the tank in contact with the soil or backfill, in accordance
with API Recommended Practice 651, 2nd Ed. (December 1997), API
Standard 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, 10th Ed., (October,
1998) and API Standard 653, Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration, and
Reconstruction, 2nd Ed. (December 1995) or NACE Standard RP0169-1996
unless a cathodic protection assessment indicates that the corrosion rate will
not reduce the floor thickness below the minimum allowed in API 653
before the next required internal inspection date.

(5) Painting. Tanks must be painted in accordance with nationally
recognized industry standards, such as the Steel Structures Painting Council
publication Steel Structures Painting, Manual, Volume 1 Good Painting
Practice 3rd Ed. (1993). Insulated tanks are exempt from this requirement.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))
(6) Tanks on Earthen Base Pads. All tanks on a prepared earthen pad must
include the following:

(a) Construction of the base pad leak detection system must meet the
standards of API Standard 650 Welded Steel Tanks for oil storage 10th Ed.
(October 1, 1998).

(b) A release prevention barrier;

(c) The support base must be constructed of compacted, clean, free-draining
granular material such as sand, gravel, or crushed stone. The use of cinders
and organic material are prohibited.

(d) The support base must be constructed so as to provide for positive
drainage of water away from the base;

(e) The support base must be constructed so as to leave at least 12 inches
above the general grade (dike floor) after ultimate settlement; and

(f) The surface of the support base must be protected against erosion by
good engineering practices.

(7) Tank Spacing. New or relocated or reconstructed tanks must be
separated in accordance with National Fire Protection Association 30 1996
Ed. Tanks used only for storing Class III B liquids (Flash point 200F and
above) may be spaced no less than 3 feet apart unless within a diked area or
a drainage path for a tank storing Class I or II liquid in which case the
provisions of NFPA 30 1996 Ed. apply.

(8) Highway Curve Locations. Tanks located near a highway curve must be
protected from vehicular collisions.

C. Piping, Valves and Pumps

(1) Fabrication Code. New and replacement piping must be designed,
fabricated, tested and maintained in accordance with codes of practice
developed by nationally recognized associations such as API, ASME, ANSI,
NFPA, PEI or STI. Installation of piping must meet or exceed current codes
of practice and be in strict accordance with manufacturer specifications.
Piping must be tested for tightness and all deficiencies remedied before the
piping is placed in service. References to be followed include: ANSI, Power
piping, B31.1, 1998; ANSI, Process Piping, B31.3, 1996; ANSI, Liquid
Transportation Systems for Hydrocarbons, Liquid Petroleum Gas,
Anhydrous Ammonia, and Alcohols, B31.4, 1992; API Recommended
Practice 1615, Installation of Underground Petroleum Storage Systems, 5th
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                               Edition))
Ed., (March 1996); NFPA, Flammable and Combustible Liquids, Code 30,
1996; PEI, Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid
Storage Systems, RP 100-97, 1997.

(2) Identification. All above ground piping and oil fill ports (into tanks and
trucks) at multi product oil terminal facilities must be color coded as
specified in API Pub. 1637, Cloro-symbol System to Mark Equipment and
Vehicles for Product-Identification at Service stations and Distribution
Terminals, 2nd ed. (September 1995).

(3) Aboveground Piping. Aboveground piping must be adequately supported
and be protected from physical damage caused by freezing, frost heaving
and vehicular traffic . Aboveground piping must be painted or coated
according to nationally recognized industry standards to prevent corrosion.

(4) Underground Piping. Underground piping must be avoided whenever
possible. Piping installed after the effective date of this chapter and in
contact with the soil or an electrolyte must be adequately protected from
corrosion in accordance with codes of practices developed by nationally
recognized associations such as NACE or API. Underground lines must have
secondary containment with interstitial space monitoring, except that runs
in excess of 100 feet that cannot be run aboveground for operational, safety
and security reasons may be cathodically protected single walled pipe.
References to be followed include: ANSI, Chemical Plant and Petroleum
Refinery Piping, B31.1, 1998; ANSI, Power Plant Piping, B31.3, 1996; ANSI,
Liquid Transportation Systems for Hydrocarbons, Liquid Petroleum Gas,
Anhydrous Ammonia and Alcohols, B31.4 1992; API, Recommended
Practice 1615, Installation of Underground Petroleum Storage Systems ,
5th Ed, (March 1996), including Addendum 1(December 1994) Addendum 2
(December 1995) and Addendum 3 (December 1996), NFPA, Flammable
and Combustible Liquids, Code 30, 1996; PEI, Recommended Practices for
Installation of Underground Liquid Storage Systems, RP 100-97, 1997;
API, Cathodic Protection of Aboveground Petroleum Storage Tanks,
ANSI/API Standard 651-1997 2nd Ed, 1997; NACE, Control of External
Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping System, RP-
0169, 1996; NACE, Corrosion Control of Underground Storage Tank
Systems by Cathodic Protection, Standard RP-0285, 1995; STI,
Recommended Practice for Corrosion Protection of Underground Piping
Networks Associated with Liquid Storage and Dispensing System, R892-
91, 1991.

(5) Tank Valves. Each connection to an aboveground oil storage tank
through which liquid can normally flow must be provided with a carbon
steel valve located as close as practical to the shell of the tank. The tank shell
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
valve must be kept in the closed position when not in use, except at a staffed
facility equipped with a functional continuous tank level monitoring system.
At unstaffed facilities, a normally closed automatic valve must be installed
immediately downstream of the shell valve on tanks serving a loading rack.
Asphalt is exempt from Section 7 C(5).

(6) Pump Leaks. Pumps must be equipped with secondary containment to
catch leaks from bearings, packings and seals.

D. Tank - Secondary Containment

(1) Capacity of Spill Containment Dikes. All oil terminal facilities must have
diked areas designed, constructed and maintained to prevent oil from
entering the waters of the State or adjacent property.

Aboveground tanks must be surrounded by a containment dike with a
minimum height of 24 inches, and constructed as follows:

(a) Where a diked area contains one storage tank, the diked area must retain
not less than 110% of the capacity of the tank;

(b) Where a diked area contains more than one storage tank, the diked area
must retain not less than 110% of the capacity of the largest tank, deducting
the volume of the other tanks in the diked area below the top surface of the
dike; and

(c) Containment capacity for all facilities must be verified when
modifications to the diked areas, or the capacity of the storage tank are
made. If no modifications are made, the containment capacity shall be
verified every 10 years. Dike walls that have eroded or degraded over time
must be regraded or repaired.

(2) Dike Configuration. The National Fire Protection Association,
Flammable and Combustible Liquids, Code 30, 1996 governs dike
configuration for new facilities.

(3) Dike Impermeability. New facilities must have secondary containment
with the base and walls designed for a permeability rate to water of 1 x 10-7
cm/sec, except where asphalt is the only oil stored in the dike area.

(4) Liner Design Specifications. The applicant must submit to the
Department for review and approval complete design plans and
specifications for the liner and associated containment structures. The
documents must be signed and sealed by a Maine Registered Professional
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
Engineer. The plans and specifications must include, but are not limited to,
the following:

(a) Liner subgrade and cover materials, placement and compaction;

(b) Liner materials, storage, handling, placement, anchoring, penetrations,
attachment to structures, and seaming;

(c) The methods of field and laboratory destructive testing as required in
paragraph (5) below;

(d) Methods of nondestructive testing of 100% of welded, extruded, or
solvent seams; and

(e) A list and description of the manufacturer's oil certifications, installation
certifications, and warranties.

(5) Liner Testing. Liner testing must meet the following requirements:

(a) Welded, extruded, or solvent seams for synthetic geomembranes. At a
minimum, seam testing must be carried out twice daily at the beginning and
end of days when seaming takes place, or whenever seaming personnel
change, or when environmental conditions significantly change as
determined by the liner specifications;

(b) Moisture content, hydraulic conductivity, and mass per unit area for
every 50,000 square feet or per lot of geocomposite liner delivered;

(c) Construction methods and moisture-density zone of acceptance for soil
liners to be performed according to a statistically valid method approved by
the Department and based on the size of the liner; and

(d) All welded, extruded and solvent seams must be tested by an approved
non-destructive method.

Testing methods must conform to nationally recognized standards. If no
standards exist, alternative methods must be approved by the Department.

Note: The American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM), the
Geosynthetic Research Institute (GRI), and the National Sanitation
Foundation (NSF) are considered nationally recognized standards.

(6) Liner Quality Assurance (QA) Plan. The applicant must submit to the
Department for review and approval a liner QA plan which must include, but
is not limited to, the following:
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(a) A description of how the liner QA plan interfaces with the overall liner
and containment structure design plans and specifications;

(b) Qualifications of the construction inspector. The inspector must be fully
knowledgeable of the QA plan, independent of the liner manufacturer and
fabricator, and empowered by contract to enforce all provisions in the liner
QA plan and liner design plans and specifications;

(c) Qualifications of liner fabricator, lead seamer, quality control officer, and
site supervisor personnel;

(d) Qualifications of the independent testing laboratory;

(e) The environmental conditions at which seaming or placement of the liner
must be stopped or seaming techniques substantially modified;

(f) Seam inspection, rejection, or repair procedures for faulty seams or
evidence of a faulty seam, or placement of liner determined through
destructive testing, nondestructive testing, or inspection; and

(g) Record keeping and reporting requirements for QA activities.

(7) Compatibility of Geomembrane Liner. Geomembrane liners used for
secondary containment must meet a short term compatibility testing (7-28
days) before any new oil is put in the tank.

(8) Liner Installation Standards. All new geomembrane liners shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturers' recommendations. A
minimum of 6 inches of fine gravel or sand shall be placed over the liner to
protect the liner from damage.

(9) Valve Access. Tank shut-off valves must be accessible during a 24-hour,
25-year rainfall event and under all operating conditions.

(10) Detailed Design. The detailed design of new spill containment dikes
must be certified by a professional engineer.

(11) Dike Stairways. Permanent fixed stairways must be provided for access
to diked areas to prevent degradation of the dike walls.

E. Facility Drainage Systems

(1) Design. The water collection, drainage, discharge, and oil/water
separator system must be designed by a professional engineer and provide
for operational stress likely to be encountered in Maine, such as frost action,
and a 24-hour, 25-year rainfall. All buried or partially buried oil/water
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
separators must be of a design and construction (approved by the
Department) that will prevent galvanic corrosion.

(2) Oil/Water Separators. In addition oil/water separators must be
designed, licensed, operated, and maintained according to 38 M.R.S. Section
413 (Waste Discharge Licenses) if the effluent is discharged directly into the
waters of the State. If the effluent will be discharged to a publicly owned
treatment works (POTW), the oil/water separator must also be designed,
licensed, operated, and maintained according to the local requirements of
the POTW (in order to meet their state and local license requirements).

(3) Drain Valves. Drain valves must be easily accessible for closing in an
emergency under all conditions of operations. Flapper valves are not
acceptable.

(4) Dike Drainage.

(a) Control of drain water from inside a diked area must be from a valve
outside the dike area, locked in the closed position except at times of
drainage operations under supervision by personnel trained in the proper
operations of drains and separators. Drainage control valves may be located
inside the dike area at existing facilities where No. 6 oil or asphalt is the only
oil being stored in the dike area, provided that these drainage valves are
locked in the closed position except during drainage operations under
supervision by trained personnel and the dike valves are exercised monthly.

(b) All drainage through the oil/water treatment system from a containment
dike must be locked out from discharge except at times of supervised
drainage. All drainage must flow through an oil/water separator.

(5) Oil Storage and Handling Area. Facilities must be graded to collect
surface run-off and discharge it through an oil/water separator to a location
approved by the Department. Such separators must be designed, installed
and maintained to handle a 24-hour, 25-year rain fall.

F. Tank Truck and Tank Car Loading and Unloading

(1) Shut-Off Valves. Steel shut-off valves must be provided at the end of all
loading and unloading points and be maintained in a locked position except
during properly supervised operations. Such valves must be accessible under
all conditions of operations.

(2) Hose Spill Preventers. All vehicle loading points must be equipped with
spill preventers designed to drain the transfer hose at the end of the transfer
procedure.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(a) The spill preventer must be of sufficient size to contain the contents of
the hose.

(b) A dry break system approved by the Department may be used in lieu of
the spill preventers.

(3) Automated Equipment. The design of the piping, valves, pumps and
hoses which convey oil from the above ground storage tanks to the tank
truck and/or the railcar loading rock must be "fail-safe" engineered so as to
prevent the spill of oil.

(4) End Capping. Top loading arms at truck and rail loading racks must be
equipped with a containment device capable of preventing a discharge of oil
when not in use or in standby service. Piping used for unloading tank cars or
trucks must be securely capped or blank flanged when not in use.

(5) Spill Containment. Tank truck and rail car loading, and unloading areas,
except for facilities handling only asphalt, must be provided with impervious
secondary containment, that is designed, constructed, and maintained to
contain spills in amounts up to the volume of largest compartment of any
truck or car vehicle loaded or unloaded at the facility. The secondary
containment systems in loading and unloading areas must be designed and
constructed to prevent collection of stormwater runoff and must be
connected to either a slop tank for removal and disposal or to an oil/water
separator.

G. Fire Prevention. All facilities must be designed, built, operated, and
maintained in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association,
Flammable and Combustible Liquids, Code 30, 1996. A terminal facility
unable to meet these requirements must file an alternate fire protection plan
for approval by the Department.

H. Physical Security

(1) Fencing. All facilities must have a security fence surrounding the facility.
New fencing must be at least 6 feet high. Gates must be provided, that are
locked except when the facility is in supervised operation or guarded. The
Department may approve alternative security measures upon deciding that
the alternative fencing or security guarding meets the intent of this chapter.

(2) Lighting. A minimum illumination standard of 50 lux is required for
transfer areas, pump areas, and entryways that would likely be the source of
leaks by accident or by acts of vandalism, adequate lighting must be
provided in accordance with the Illumination Engineering Society of North
America Lighting Handbook, 8th Ed., 1993.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))
I. Dock Facility

(1) Transfer Piping. The connection points of the oil transfer piping to the
storage tankage, located on the dockside, must have steel shut-off valves and
check valves installed to prevent back-flow of oil should failure of dock hoses
or other equipment occur.

(2) Spill Containment. All oil transfer points of connection must be provided
with a spill containment system designed, constructed, and maintained to
contain discharges that may occur from a hose or connection point rupture.

The spill containment system must have a storage capacity of at least:

(a) Two barrels if it serves one or more hoses of 6-inch inside diameter or
smaller, or loading arms of 6-inch nominal pipe size diameter or smaller;

(b) Three barrels if it serves one or more hoses with an inside diameter of
more than 6 inches, but less than 12 inches, or loading arms with a nominal
pipe size diameter of more than 6 inches, but less than 12 inches; and

(c) Four barrels if it serves one or more hoses of 12-inch inside diameter or
larger, or loading arms of 12-inch nominal pipe size diameter or larger.

(d) Spill containment must be properly positioned and adequately
maintained and an absorber shall be available in case of overflows to
minimize the loss of oil. At no time shall the spill containment contents be
allowed to spill in the water or surrounding soil. Spill containment must be
disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner.

(3) Requirements for Protection Against Mechanical Damage. Concrete or
other portions of pier or wharf structures that are exposed to impact or
abrasion by vessels or are subject to damage by floating ice or debris must be
protected by an open fender system constructed of wood or other material.
Provisions must be made to reduce the impact force exerted on the pier with
such details of construction as will reduce damage from ordinary operations
to a reasonable minimum.

J. Shop-Fabricated Aboveground Storage Tank Minimum Design
and Construction Standards

(1) Shop-Fabricated Aboveground Storage Tanks

(a) Design and Construction Standards. Shop-fabricated aboveground
storage tanks used to store flammable or combustible liquids must be
constructed of steel and meet or exceed the design requirements of
Flammable and Combustible Liquids, Code 30, National Fire Protection
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
Association, 1996. Shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks used to store
non-flammable or non-combustible hazardous substance (as defined by 38
M.R.S. 1362(1)) must be constructed of materials compatible with the
material to be stored and designed in accordance with good engineering
practices. All shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks, including any
integral secondary containment systems, must be installed according to the
manufacturer's recommendations.

(b) Prohibited Tanks. Tanks constructed in accordance with Standard for
Steel Inside Tanks for Oil-Burner Fuel, Underwriters Laboratories 80, can
only be used to supply fuel to oil-burning equipment.

(c) Secondary Containment. All shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks
must be located in diked areas meeting the requirements of Section 7 (D)(4),
or designed with their own integral secondary containment system meeting
the standards of one of the following: Standard for Diked Aboveground
Storage Tanks, Steel Tank Institute F911-93; Standard for Aboveground
Tanks with Integral Secondary Containment, Steel Tank Institute F921-98;
or Insulated Aboveground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids,
Underwriters Laboratories, Standard 2085, 1st ed., 1994.

(d) Leak Detection. Shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks must be
designed so that the space between the bottom of the tank and the secondary
containment can be either visually or electronically monitored.

(e) Corrosion Control. All shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks must
have a cathodic protection system for the portion of the tank in contact with
the soils or backfill in accordance with API Recommended Practice 651
Cathodic Protection of Aboveground Petroleum Storage Tanks, 2nd Ed.
December, 1997. Recommended Practices for Installation of Aboveground
Storage Systems for Motor Vehicle Fueling, Petroleum Equipment Institute
Publication RP200-96; Recommended Practices for External Corrosion
Protection of Shop Fabricated Aboveground Tank Floors, Steel Tank
Institute STI-R893-89; or Control of External Corrosion on Underground
or Submerged Metallic Piping System, National Association of Corrosion
Engineers, RP-0169, 1996.

(f) Overfill Prevention

(i) All shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks used to store a flammable
or combustible liquid with a capacity of over 20,000 gallons or with an
integral secondary containment system must have:

a. A device which sounds an audible alarm when the tank reaches 90% of
capacity; and
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
b. A person in charge from the terminal receiving the delivery monitoring
the transfer along with the truck driver.

(ii) All shop-fabricated aboveground storage tanks of 20,000 gallons or less
used to store a flammable liquid must have one of the following:

a. A device which sounds an audible alarm when the tank reaches 90% of
capacity; or

b. A device which automatically stops the flow of the liquid into the tank
when the liquid level of the tank reaches 95% of capacity; or

c. A person in charge from the terminal receiving the delivery monitoring
the transfer along with the truck driver.

(g) Painting. Tanks must be painted in accordance with the Steel Structures
Painting Council publication Steel Structures Painting, Manual, Volume 1
Good Painting Practice (1993). Insulated tanks are exempt from this
requirement.

(2) Piping, Valves and Pumps

(a) Fabrication Code. All aboveground piping systems must be designed,
constructed, installed and maintained in accordance with Section 7(C)(1)

(b) Pump and Valve Leaks. Pumps and valves must be equipped with
secondary containment to catch leaks from bearings, packing and seals.

(c) Tank Valves. All shop-fabricated storage tanks connected to the loading
rack shall be equipped with a device such as a normally closed solenoid valve
that will prevent gravity flow from the tank in the event of a piping breach,
unless tank inventory is reconciled daily. Valves on shop-fabricated storage
tanks not connected to the loading rack and not in frequent use must be
maintained in the closed position.

(d) Underground Piping. Underground piping must be avoided whenever
possible. All underground piping must be designed, constructed, installed
and maintained in accordance with DEP Chapter 691 or 695.

8. Existing Land Based Oil Terminal Facility Minimum Design
And Construction Standards

A. Notification of Work The Department must be notified of substantial
modifications, rehabilitation, and new construction including, but not
limited to, the installation of new tanks, the construction of new secondary
containment, new dikes, and new dike floor liners prior to implementation.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
Certification of the designs is required by a State of Maine registered
professional engineer or an engineer otherwise working in compliance with
Maine's professional regulation statutes.

B. Aboveground Oil Storage Tanks

(1) New Tankage. New aboveground oil storage tanks added to existing
terminals must meet the rules and construction standards of Section 7(B) of
this chapter. The new tankage may vary from the spacing requirements if an
alternate fire plan is approved by the local fire department and the State Fire
Marshall.

(2) Prohibit Reuse of Tanks. Existing tanks that have been permanently
closed may be reused only if the following conditions are met:

(a) The existing tank must have an ASME code stamp, API nameplate, or UL
label; and

(b) The Department shall be provided with satisfactory documentation that
the tank has been inspected by a qualified professional engineer and found
to meet the specifications of API Standard 650, 10th Ed. 1998.

(3) Corrosion Protection. All existing tanks must have a cathodic protection
system for the portion of the tank in contact with the soil or backfill, in
accordance with API Recommended Practice 651, 2nd Ed. (December 1997),
API Standard 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, 10th Ed. (October
1998) and API Standard 653, Tank Inspections, Repair, Alteration, and
reconstruction, 2nd Ed. (December 1995) or NACE Standard RP0169-1996,
unless a cathodic protection assessment indicates that the corrosion rate will
not reduce the floor thickness below the minimum allowed in API 653
before the next required internal inspection date. The cathodic protection
system must be installed by November 7, 2004 or when a release prevention
barrier is installed, whichever is sooner.

(4) Painting. The exterior tank shell on existing tanks must be painted and
maintained in good condition to prevent excessive rusting and or corrosion
to the exterior of the tank. Tank painting occurring after November 7, 2000
must be in accordance with nationally recognized industry standards, such
as the Steel Structures Painting Council publication Steel structures
Painting Manual, volume 1 Good Paining Practice 3rd Ed. (1993). Insulated
tanks are exempt from this requirement.

(5) Upgrade and Repair of Tanks. If an aboveground oil storage tank
inspection reveals a discharge, excessive corrosion, excessive tank
settlement, or any other deficiency which could result in a discharge, the
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))
tank must be repaired to standards equal to or better than the standards of
original construction.

(a) Unacceptable levels of corrosion and tank settlement are as defined in
API Recommended Practice 651. 2nd Ed. (December 1997), API Standard
650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage, 10th Ed, (October 1998) and API
Standard 653, Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration, and Reconstruction,
2nd Ed. (December 1995).

(b) All riveted and bolted tanks must have seams, including rivets and bolts
on the bottoms and first course of shell plates sealed. Heated oil tanks
storing #6 oil or asphalt are exempt from this requirement.

(i) An oil terminal owner or operator must notify the Department within 3
days of discovery of a weep. A weep is identified as a film or staining that
travels down the tank one complete ring from the rivets, bolts, or seams of a
riveted or bolted above ground oil storage tank. The notification must
identify the tank and the location of the weep as it appears on the tank.
Within 14 days of discovery of the weep the oil terminal facility owner or
operator must either drain the tank below the level of the weep or propose
an alternate method acceptable to the Department for controlling the weep
prior to the weep being properly repaired.

(ii) A weep which comes in contact with the ground surface must be reported
to the Department within two hours of its discovery. The oil terminal owner
or operator must drain the tank below the level of the weep within 14 days of
discovery. The tank can not be filled above the level of the weep until the
Department has received a report from the terminal owner or operator
demonstrating that the weep has been properly repaired.

(c) Tank liners will not be an acceptable form of tank bottom repair after
November 7, 1999 unless provision is made for leak detection between the
liner and the repaired steel bottom.

(6) Release Prevention for Tank Bottoms. Release Prevention Barriers (RPB)
with leak detection must be provided for all field constructed tank bottoms
within 20 years of the effective date of this chapter. Fifty percent (50%) of
the field constructed tanks at a facility must meet this standard by
November 7, 2009 seventy five (75%), by November 7, 2014 and all tanks by
November 7, 2019. Existing asphalt and No. 6 fuel oil tanks are exempt from
the requirement for RPB.

(a) An RPB may include steel double bottom, synthetic liner, geocomposite
liner, clay liner or existing soils under the tank provided they meet the
standard in 8(B)(6)(b) or such system as the Commissioner shall determine
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))
provides the same protection from oil migration due to leakage and
equivalent leak detection.

(b) Engineered clay or existing soil liners under a tank may serve as RPB if
the engineered clay is at least 12 inches thick or the existing soil layer at least
24 inches thick and meets the following water permeability standards:

Gasoline et al 1 x 10-6 cm/sec

Mid Distillates 1 x 10-5 cm/sec

Crude Oil 1 x 10-5 cm/sec

#4, #5 Fuel Oils 1 x 10-4 cm/sec

Permeability of clay or existing soil RPB's must be determined by a
professional engineer or certified geologist using a method capable of testing
both horizontal and vertical permeabilities. A soil survey plan, test method,
testing location and test protocol must be submitted to the Department for
approval.

(c) All tanks except existing asphalt and No.6 fuel oil must be fitted with leak
detection upon installation of an RPB. Acceptable methods of leak detection
are shown in API Standard 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage 10th
Ed. (October 1998). Tanks using existing soil liners under a tank must have
leak detection comprised of permeable sand or gravel of adequate thickness
with collection pipes so that a leak can be detected before passing through
the existing soil liner, or such system as the Department may find
acceptable. The Department will consider criteria such as speed of detection,
reliability of both the system, leak detection method and service life in
approving an alternate method.

C. Piping, Valves and Pumps

(1) All new piping runs added to, or replacing, existing runs at an existing
facility must be constructed in accordance with the requirements of Section
7(C)(1) and 7(C)(4) of this chapter. For purposes of this section, "replacing"
means 25 or more feet of the piping run.

(2) Underground Piping. All existing underground piping must be surveyed
and shown on a site plan. The plan shall clearly show the location, material,
size and estimated burial depth of all underground piping.

(3) Identification. All aboveground piping at multiple oil facilities must be
marked with an oil product identification. All fill ports (into tanks or trucks)
must be color coded as specified in API Recommended Practice 1637, Color-
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
Symbol System to Mark Equipment and Vehicles for Product Identification
at Service Stations and Distribution Terminals, 2nd Ed. (September 1995).

(4) Pipe Supports. Aboveground piping must be adequately supported and
protected from physical damage caused by freezing, frost heaving and
vehicular traffic. Aboveground piping must be painted or coated according
to nationally recognized industry standards to prevent corrosion.

(5) Pressure Relief Pressure relief valves or an alternate pressure venting
procedure must be provided on piping that may be blocked in and filled with
oil.

(6) Corrosion Protection. Aboveground piping must be painted or coated to
prevent corrosion. Underground piping must be cathodically protected in
accordance with NACE Standard RP0169-1996.

(7) Tank Valves. Each connection to an aboveground oil storage tank
through which liquid can normally flow must be provided with a carbon
steel valve located as close as practical to the shell of the tank. The tank shell
valve must be kept in the closed position when not in use, except at a staffed
facility equipped with a functional continuous tank level monitoring system.
In addition, a normally closed automatic valve must be installed
immediately downstream of the shell valve on tanks serving a loading rack
at unstaffed facilities. Asphalt is exempt from Section 8(C)(7).

(8) Impact Protection. Piping must have protective guards where vehicular
impact or other physical impact is possible.

(9) Pump Leaks. Pumps must be equipped with secondary containment to
catch leaks from bearings, packings and seals.

D. Tank Secondary Containment

(1) All new, reconstructed, or relocated tankage installed in a new diked area
at an existing facility must meet the requirements of Section 7(D) of this
chapter.

(2) A new tank in an existing diked area must have secondary containment
with leak detection for the tank bottom. This can be accomplished through
use of a double bottom tank or by providing a new tank base pad that meets
the permeability standards of Section 7(D)(3) of this chapter. The remainder
of the diked area must meet the requirements of paragraph (5) of this
subsection.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(3) Capacity of Spill Containment Dikes. All existing oil terminal facilities
must meet the requirements of Section 7(D)(1) of this chapter. Existing
facilities where complete diking is prohibited due to space may use an
alternative partial remote impounding system. This system shall not allow
overland flow of released tank contents on the ground surface and must
meet the standards of NFPA, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code 30,
1996

(4) Dike Configuration. The standards of the NFPA, Flammable and
Combustible Liquids, Code 30, 1996, govern dike configuration for existing
facilities as far as practical.

(5) Dike Impermeability. The base and walls of a diked area surrounding an
aboveground storage tank must be designed, constructed and maintained in
a condition that prevents any release of oil within the diked area from
reaching a surface water body within 72 hours.

(a) A site assessment is required under the following conditions:

(i) Any previous release within the diked area has reached surface water
within 72 hours; or

(ii) When the documented type and morphology of the soil through which
the release must flow and the distance from the diked area to the nearest
down gradient surface water body is less than indicated in the table below:

Soil Type Permeability in centimeters per second Distance (feet)

Clay, silt, silt and clay <5 x 10-4 N/A

Silty sand <4 x 10-3 13

Clean find sand <1 x 10-2 28

Clean medium sand <5 x 10-2 45

Clean course sand <2 x 10-1 72

Sand and gravel <3 x 10-1 101

Clean medium gravel <1.4 246

Shale <5 x 10-6 6

Sandstone <2 x 10-3 11
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
Fractured rock Site-specific evaluation required. Site Assessment Required.

(b) If the site assessment indicates that a release of the specific oil within the
diked area will not be prevented from reaching surface water within 72
hours, the diked area must be improved to meet this requirement.

(c) Spill containment dikes at existing facilities must be upgraded if
necessary by November 7, 2009;

(d) The detailed design of new or modified secondary containment dikes
must be certified by a professional engineer.

(6) Valve Access. Tank shut-off valves must be accessible under a 24-hour,
25-year rainfall and under all operating conditions.

(7) Dike Stairways. Permanent fixed stairways must be provided for access
to diked areas to prevent degradation of dike walls.

E. Leak Monitoring and Detection.

(1) The Department may require monitoring wells and leak detection devices
at existing facilities known or reasonably suspected as a source of
contamination.

(2) Existing monitoring wells must be checked for free phase products
annually or as directed by the Department as a licensing requirement of oil
terminal facilities.

(3) Monitoring wells must be designed and constructed as described in
Appendix A. New monitoring wells must be located to avoid penetrations in
any diked area liner.

F. Existing Tank Truck and Tank Car Loading and Unloading Spill
Containment

(1) Tank truck loading and unloading areas except for facilities handling
only asphalt, must be provided with impervious secondary containment,
that is designed, constructed and maintained to contain spills in amounts up
to the volume of the largest compartment of any truck loaded or unloaded at
the facility. The secondary containment systems in loading and unloading
areas must be designed and constructed to prevent the collection of storm
water runoff and must be connected to either a slop tank for removal and
disposal or to an oil water separator.

(2) Rail car loading and unloading areas, except for facilities handling only
asphalt and #6 oil must be equipped with a device that automatically stops
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
the flow of the liquid into the tank when the liquid level of the tank car
reaches 95% of capacity by January 31, 2002 and; be provided with
impervious secondary containment designed, constructed and maintained to
prevent a discharge from coming in contact with soils and ballast associated
with the rail line by January 31, 2006. The secondary containment must be
designed to prevent the collection of storm water runoff and must be
connected to either a slop tank for removal and disposal or an oil water
separator. Storm water drainage from facilities handling only #6 oil and
asphalt must be connected to a slop tank or an oil water separator for
removal and disposal.

G. Reopening a Closed Facility. A facility that has been closed must
meet the standards for existing facilities if reopening within 20 years of the
closure date. Any facility reopening after a closure of more than 20 years
must meet the standards for a new facility, including the siting standards in
Section 6 of this chapter.

H. Other Requirements. All existing oil terminal facilities must meet the
requirements of Sections 7 (E), 7(F) (1)-(4), 7(G), 7(H) and 7(I) of this
chapter.

I. Shop-Fabricated Tanks

(1) New shop-fabricated tanks must meet the requirements of Section 7 (J).
New tanks may vary from the spacing requirements if an alternate fire plan
is approved by the local fire department and the State Fire Marshal.

9. Standard Operating Procedures

A. Transfers Between Land Based Oil Terminal Facilities and
Vessels

(1) Personnel. For transfers at an oil terminal facility, the facility must
provide the transporter with a written transfer procedure. This procedure
must be acknowledged in writing by the transporter.

(2) Inspections. Inspections are required at the beginning of each transfer
and as needed to verify the tightness of the loading and off loading lines,
valves and other attached apparatus. Inspection logs must be kept at the
facility for at least 3 years.

(3) Tank Capacity. Persons transferring oil shall assure that the high level
alarms on the receiving tank are set at such a level that if an alarm should
occur during the oil transfer there would be sufficient time to shut down the
oil transfer operation prior to over filling the tank. This must be verified to
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
the Department's satisfaction by a signed agreement with the local fire
department or by demonstrating that there is sufficient shut down time to
the Department.

(4) Fire Main Shore Connection. There must be immediately available
during any transfer operation at least one international fire main shore
connection.

(5) Bonding Cable. Pipelines on wharves must be adequately bonded and
grounded if Class I or Class II liquids are handled. If excessive stray
electrical currents are encountered, insulating joints must be installed.
Bonding and grounding connections on all piping must be located on the
wharf side of the hose riser insulating flanges. The bonding cable must
incorporate a meter or other suitable positive means of determining a
ground. Typical methods for protection against stray current hazards at
wharves are illustrated in API Recommendation Practice, Protection
Against Ignitions Arising Out of Static, Lighting, and Stray Currents, 6th
Ed. (September 1998). Any bonding cable employed between the wharf
piping and the vessel must employ an explosion-proof switch as a method of
completing the connection.

(6) Safe Transfer Operations. Oil transfer operations are not permitted when
any of the following conditions arise:

(a) If any weather-related condition develops that, in the opinion of the dock
watchman, terminal supervisor or watch officer, is too severe for operations
to be safely continued;

(b) If a fire occurs on the dock, tank vessel, adjacent tank vessel, or in the
nearby vicinity;

(c) If a tank vessel should break loose or if another vessel should come
alongside which is not under control or is emitting sparks from its stack or is
apt to collide or otherwise present a hazard to the tank vessel in berth at the
terminal;

(d) If an oil spill occurs aboard the tank vessel, an adjacent vessel, or on the
dock or if a leak develops in joints of hoses or piping which cannot be
stopped by tightening;

(e) If in the opinion of the terminal supervisor, dock watchman, or watch
officer a vapor condition develops aboard or around the tank vessel or dock
which would be too serious to continue operations;
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
      Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
(f) If any other emergency occurs which, in the opinion of the watch officer,
terminal supervisor, or dock watchman, constitutes a potential hazard to the
tank vessel or facilities; or

(g) If at anytime the high level alarm system within the terminal activates to
warn of a possible or pending overflow.

(7) Illumination. No person may transfer or cause to be transferred or
consent to the transfer of any bulk oil after dark unless the point of transfer
is illuminated to a minimum standard of 50 lux.

(8) Open Hatch Transfer. Transfer of oil by means of a hose through an open
hatch is prohibited. An exception may be made only when an emergency
arises and this is the only means of moving flammable oil from one vessel
compartment to another or of unloading oil from the vessel for purposes of
reducing or preventing pollution, or for preventing foundering and then only
when all possible precautions to prevent discharge to the waters of the State
have been taken. The Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee and the
local fire department must be notified.

(9) Sample Collection. No terminal operator shall transfer or cause to be
transferred or consent to the transfer of any bulk oil until a sample of the oil
to be transferred has been collected, identified by proper labeling, and
stored in a place acceptable to the Department. Oil terminal facilities with
automatic sampling capabilities are not required to presample. The sample
must be stored for a minimum of fifteen days. The Department shall
determine the information to be provided with each sample and may require
chemical analysis of the sample. Sampling must be done in accordance with
Appendix B.

(10) Anticipated Transfer. The Department shall be notified at least 12 hours
in advance of any transfer of bulk oil by the terminal operator. The
notification must include the following information:

(a) Terminal name and location or anchorage if offshore transfer;

(b) Approximate amount of oil to be transferred;

(c) Oil type;

(d) Vessel name; and

(e) Expected time and date of vessel arrival.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
Should unusual circumstances make it impossible to provide 12-hour notice,
the terminal operator shall notify the Commissioner as soon as possible.
Notification is not required for transfer of oil for a vessel's own use.

(11) Declaration of Inspection. A copy of any "Declaration of Inspection"
required by the United States Coast Guard for a tank vessel transferring oil
at an oil terminal facility must be in the possession of the terminal operator
or the operator's representative and must be available to the representative
of the Commissioner who shall on demand, be given the opportunity to
verify that the condition of the vessel is as stated in the "Declaration of
Inspection."

(12) Other Reports and Forms. The oil terminal facility operator shall also
complete such other forms, check lists and reports as the Commissioner
from time to time may require.

(13) General Safety Provisions

(a) Signs. During the time a tank vessel is in berth, a warning sign carrying
letters not less than 2 inches high on a contrasting background must be
displayed on dock and near the gangplank. This sign must read substantially
as follows: WARNING-NO OPEN LIGHTS, NO SMOKING, NO
UNAUTHORIZED VISITORS.

(b) Hazardous Vapor. When in the opinion of the terminal operator or the
Commissioner's representative a hazardous vapor condition develops on the
dock or on any vessel, all transfer operations involving all such vessels must
be stopped and all sources of ignition such as smoking, use of matches,
lighters and open flame except boiler fires must be eliminated and
prohibited.

(c) Transfer of Sour Crude. An oil terminal facility must take special
precautions for the transfer of sour crude oil to minimize the release of
vapors during the transfer period.

(d) Multiple Vessel Mooring. No tank vessel may be secured along side
another tank vessel at a pier except while taking bunker oil fuel aboard from
a lighter. A tow boat must stand by alongside or in the notch during the
transfer of bunker fuel from a lighter to a tank vessel. The bunkering lighter
must be moved away from the tank vessel immediately after it has pumped
its load aboard the tank vessel

(14) Vessel Pre-Transfer Conference. No person shall commence or consent
to the commencement of bulk oil transfer operations at an oil terminal
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
facility unless the following items have been reviewed, agreed upon and
complied with by both vessel and facility personnel:

(a) A sufficient number of adequately trained oil terminal facility personnel
shall be assigned to be constantly on duty during cargo transfer operations
to keep the transfer operation under constant observation to insure
immediate action in case of a malfunction;

(b) Cargo sequence for loading or discharging products and the proper pipe
for each product must have been established;

(c) The handling rate at which oil will be transferred must have been
established. (Reduced rates are required when commencing transfer,
changing the lineup, topping off tanks or nearing completion of transfer.)
The amount of time to be given when the vessel or terminal desires to start,
or stop, or change the rate of flow must have been determined;

(d) A positive communication and signal system must be operable during
transfer operations;

(e) The emergency procedures to be followed in order to stop and contain
any discharge must have been established;

(f) Vessel and facility personnel responsible for transfer shall be clearly
identifiable at all times. Prior to transfer operations, terminal and vessel
personnel responsible for transfer shall be made known to each other; and

(g) An oil terminal facility must have written operation guidelines pertaining
to dock operations for vessels coming to or along side its dock during
abnormal weather conditions.

(15) Transfer Hoses. No person shall transfer or cause to be transferred or
consent to the transfer of any oil between an oil carrying vessel and an oil
terminal facility unless:

(a) All oil terminal facility transfer hoses must be of a type designed
specifically for the oil transferred. Transfer hoses must be tested annually to
1.5 times the maximum working pressure.

(b) As provided for below, each oil terminal facility hose must be marked
with:

(i) The products for which the hose may be used or the words "oil service";

(ii) Maximum allowable working pressure;
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
      Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                               Edition))
(iii) Date of manufacture; and

(iv) Date of the latest test required.

This information need not be marked on the hose if it is recorded elsewhere
at the facility and the hose is marked to identify it with that information.
This log book must be available for inspection by a representative of the
Commissioner.

(c) Hoses must be supported so as to avoid crushing or excessive strain.
Flanges, joints, and hoses must be checked visually for cracks and wet spots.

(d) Oil terminal facility hose handling rigs must be of a type which allow
adjustment for vessel movement and hoses must be long enough so that they
are not strained by a movement of the vessel.

(e) Hose ends must be blanked tightly when hoses are moved into position
to be connected and also immediately after they are disconnected and
drained either into the vessel tanks or into suitable shore receptacles before
they are moved away from their connections.

(f) Hoses must not be permitted to chafe on the dock or vessel or be in
contact with hot surfaces such as steam pipes or be exposed to any other
corrosive sources.

(16) Mooring Lines. Mooring lines must be tended during transfer
operations to prevent excessive movement of the vessel.

(17) Fire Main Connections. Sufficient serviceable fire hose to reach all parts
of the vessel and dock with approved combination nozzles attached must be
connected to the fire main on the vessel and/or on the dock respectively and
be made ready for instant use during the time a vessel is in berth. The fire
main must have a master valve at the head of the dock so the fire main can
be kept dry in winter and wet in summer. The fire main on the dock must be
at least 6 inches in diameter. The fire main must be charged at all times to
the master valve. An oil terminal facility not meeting these requirements
shall file with the Department for approval, an alternate fire protection plan.

(18) Fire Wires. During transfer operations, fore and aft fire wires must be
rigged on the offshore side of the vessel for use by tugs in removing vessels
from the pier in event of fire.

(19) Vessel to Shore Transfer. No person may transfer or cause to be
transferred or consent to the transfer of any bulk oil from any tank vessel to
a land based oil terminal facility unless:
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
(a) All cargo risers not intended for use in the transfer are blanked;

(b) Sea valves connected to the cargo piping and stern loading connections
are tightly closed and sealed with a numbered seal which is logged in the log
book of the vessel;

(c) Piping and valves in the pump rooms and on deck are checked by the
master of the vessel, senior deck officer or deck officer on duty, or licensed
tanker man to see that they are properly set for discharging cargo. An
additional check must be made for the same purposes each time the setting
is changed;

(d) Full rate of discharge is not attained until shore lines are proven clear;
and

(e) On completion of transfer operations, hoses or other connecting devices
must be drained of the remaining oil. A drip pan must be in place when
breaking a connection and the end of the hose or other connecting devices
must be blanked off before being moved.

(20) Shore to Vessel Transfer. No person may transfer or cause to be
transferred or consent to the transfer of any bulk oil from a land based oil
terminal facility to any tank vessel unless:

(a) All sea valves connected to the cargo piping, stern discharge and ballast
discharge valves are closed and sealed with a numbered seal which is to be
logged in the vessel log book of the vessel and with the responsible vessel
officer of the vessel;

(b) All hose riser valves not to be used are closed and blank flanged, and all
air valves on headers are closed;

(c) Special attention is paid during the topping off process to the loading
rate, the number of tanks open, the danger of air pockets and the inspection
of tanks already loading. Notice of the slowdown for topping off must be
given to shore personnel; and

(d) Upon completion of loading, all tank valves and loading valves are
closed. After draining, hoses must be disconnected and hose risers blanked.

(21) Scuppers. No person may transfer or cause to be transferred or consent
to the transfer of any bulk oil between a tank vessel and a land based oil
terminal facility unless the scuppers of any such vessel are plugged
watertight during the oil transfer operation, except on tank vessels using
water for deck cooling. However, it is permissible to remove scupper plugs
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
as necessary to allow run-off of water provided a vessel crew member stands
watch to re-close the scuppers in case of an oil discharge.

(22) Tank Tops and Hatch Covers. When transferring oil, tank tops and
hatch covers must be closed. Ullage caps or plugs must only be opened on
tanks that are to be loaded or unloaded and all open ullage holes must be
covered with flame screens which must be kept in place during the transfer
except for the minimum time necessary to observe transfer progress, take
samples or take ullage readings. If a tow boat or other vessel such as a
bunker barge or lighter is moved along side for the purpose of serving the
vessel and if that floating equipment is steam propelled or propelled by an
internal combustion engine, tank tops, tank hatches and ullage plugs or caps
must be kept open only on those tanks from which oil is being withdrawn
and may be kept open only with flame screens in place. When there is no
longer any possibility of sparks or other source of ignition, normal
procedure may be resumed.

(23) Ports and Doors to Crew Quarters. When loading and unloading oil, all
ports and doors facing the cargo decks, or facing a breeze bringing vapors
from another vessel must be closed except when necessary to open for
passage of personnel.

(24) Blowing of Boiler Tubes. Blowing of boiler tubes or other work on the
boilers which may cause sparks or soot from the stacks during transfer
operations is prohibited.

(25) Spillage During Transfer. Transfer must cease if a discharge of oil to the
waters of the State occurs during such transfer. Transfer may be resumed
when, in the judgment of the Commissioner's representative after
consultation, if necessary, with the United States Coast Guard or Local Fire,
Chief, adequate steps have been taken to control the discharge and to
prevent further discharge.

(26) Contingency plan. Each owner or operator of an oil terminal facility
must have available for inspection by the Commissioner or an agent of the
Commissioner a copy of any oil discharge response plan required to be
submitted to the President of the United States under the federal Oil
Pollution Control Action of 1990, Public Law 101-380, Section 4202.

(27) Operations Plans. The owner or operator of each oil terminal facility
shall have an operations plan available for inspection upon request of the
Commissioner or representative of the Commissioner. The operations plan
must describe in detail the equipment and procedures used at that terminal
for the prevention of oil spills and the protection of the public health, safety,
welfare, and environment.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
(28) Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan. This
chapter expressly adopts and incorporates by reference all the requirements
of the Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan in 40 CFR Part
112 (July 1, 1998).

B. Booming of Vessels

(1) All tank vessels and tank barges, except those engaged in bunkering
operations and actually bunkering a vessel, from which and to which oil and
oil by-products are being transferred, must be protected by an oil boom
device which must completely enclose the tank vessel and be maintained by
anchoring with sufficient anchors at a minimum distance of 50 feet from the
vessel to catch and contain oil discharges, except:

(a) When personnel safety conditions, weather, wind, sea, or ice conditions
are such that a boom cannot be wholly or partially deployed and the
terminal operator reports this fact to the Commissioner. Reporting must be
prior to transfer or whenever conditions develop which require removal of
the boom. If the Commissioner's offices are closed, reporting must be on the
next working day following the transfer; or

(b) When a portion of the oil has a flash point of -45 F or less, and an
ignition temperature of 536 F or more, such as gasoline.

(2) The boom used to enclose the tank vessel must be of a type suited to the
conditions of wind, currents, and waves found at the transfer site at the time
the transfer takes place, and must be capable of retaining the maximum
most probable discharge from the tank vessel under the conditions normally
found at the transfer site at the time the transfer takes place. Maximum
most probable discharge means a discharge of (1) 2,500 barrels of oil for
vessel with an oil cargo capacity equal to or greater than 25,000 barrels; or
(2) 10% of the vessel's oil cargo capacity for vessel with a capacity of less
than 25,000.

(3) If a terminal operator believes it is impossible or wholly impracticable to
implement the booming requirement in whole or in part on a regular basis,
the operator may apply to the Department for complete or partial exemption
from this requirement. The application must set forth in detail the reasons
why such complete or partial exception should be granted. The Department
may set any reasonable conditions in granting any exemption hereunder.

C. Land Based Oil Terminal Facilities

(1) Inventory Control/Overfill Protection
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
(a) Inventory Reconciliation. The liquid level in a tank must be gauged at
least once every 7 days and the measurements compared to those of the
previous readings. A record of the measurements must be maintained for
inspection by the Commissioner or representative of the Commissioner.
Tank gauging also is required prior to every delivery of oil into a storage
tank at a facility.

(b) Mandatory Loss Reporting. Any liquid level measurements that, after
reconciliation of inventory, indicate a loss of liquid of at least 0.5% of
throughput on a monthly basis, must be immediately investigated and
reported to the Commissioner.

(c) Overfill Prevention. Tank overfilling must be prevented by the following
measures, except for asphalt tankages:

(i) High liquid level alarm with audible and visual signals; and

(ii) High-high liquid level alarm with audible and visual signals.

(d) Overfill protection systems must be tested before each transfer or
monthly, whichever is the least frequent.

(2) Maintenance and Inspection. Prior to operation and as a condition of
continued operation of an oil terminal facility, an inspection program must
be implemented by the facility operator as follows:

(a) Daily visual inspection of aboveground tanks, piping, equipment and
discharge control devices and surrounding areas to detect possible oil and to
determine and carry out any maintenance necessary to prevent discharges
from occurring. The operator shall make a list of daily inspection procedures
and inspection logs available to the Commissioner or representative of the
Commissioner.

(b) A documented monthly visual inspection of the facility, including but not
limited to, tanks and all ancillary devices (vents, water drawoff, etc.), valves,
piping, spill containment dikes and other spill holding areas, oil/water
separators and equipment.

(c) Monthly visual tank inspection must include, but not be limited to the
following:

(i) Check exterior surfaces of tanks for discharges and maintenance
deficiencies;
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
      Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
(ii) Identify cracks, wear, corrosion, thinning, poor maintenance and
operating practices, settlement, swelling of tank insulation, malfunctioning
equipment, structural and foundation weaknesses; and

(iii) Inspect and monitor discharge detection systems, cathodic protection
monitoring or warning systems.

(d) Tank De-watering. Discharge of water from tank bottoms must be to an
appropriate onsite or offsite treatment facility. Oil from the tank as part of
the water bottom drawoff may be returned to the tank.

(e) Cathodic protection system. A monthly inspection must be performed on
any impressed current cathodic protection system. An annual structure to
soil and structure to structure potential test must be performed by a
cathodic protection tester for impressed current systems as well as annual
structure to soil potentials for galvanic systems. Rectifier voltage and
current readings must be in the range specified by the manufacturer or
installer of the system. All readings and repairs must be documented.

(f) All underground oil piping more than 5 years old must be inspected or
tested to verify the integrity of the piping by November 7, 2001 in
accordance with API Standard 570, Piping Inspection Code: Inspection,
Repairs, Alternation and Re-rating of In Service Piping Systems, 1st Ed.
(June 1993, as supplemented January 1995 and December 1997).
Verification by pressure testing must consist of holding pressure at 1.5 times
the maximum operating pressure for a period of one hour on an annual
basis. Verification by use of internal inspection devices, designed to verify
the structural integrity of the pipe by measuring the pipe wall thickness and
indicating geometric irregularities of the piping is an acceptable alternatives
provided it is by November 7, 2001 and every 5 years thereafter. If the age of
the piping is unknown, it must be tested within 1 year of by November 7,
2000. Pressure testing or internal inspection is not required on
underground piping equipped with secondary containment or a leak
detection system. The Commissioner may require testing at other times if
there is reason to suspect a discharge.

(g) Aboveground piping tightness testing. Tightness testing is required for
aboveground piping 10 years after installation and every 5 years thereafter
in accordance with API Standard 570. Piping Inspection Code; inspection ,
repair alternation and rerouting of in-service piping systems 1st Ed, June
1993, Supplemental 1 January 1995 and Supplemental 2 December 1997.
Aboveground piping must be hydrostatically pressure tested to 1.5 times the
maximum operating pressure for a period of one hour. For the purpose of
this section a hydrostatic pressure test may be performed using hydrocarbon
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                    Edition))
product or water. Verification by use of internal inspection devices, designed
to verify the structural integrity of the pipe by measuring pipe wall thickness
and indicating geometric irregularities of the piping, is an acceptable
alternative. If the age of the piping is unknown, it must be tested by
November 7, 2001 and every 5 years thereafter. If the piping, including
insulated piping, can be visually inspected 360 degrees around over its
entire length, then tightness testing is not required.

(h) Internal Tank Inspection. All field constructed tanks must have internal
inspections as follows:

(i) Tanks without either an RPB or a cathodically protected bottom with an
internal bottom liner must have an internal inspection by January 1, 2004,
and at least every 10 years thereafter;

(ii) Tanks with an internal tank bottom liner and cathodically protected
bottom must have an internal inspection by January 1, 2008, and at least
every 10 years thereafter;

(iii) Tanks with an RPB that have no internal tank bottom liner and
cathodically protected bottom must have an internal inspection by January
1, 2008, or within 15 years after a prior internal inspection, whichever is
later, and at least every 15 years thereafter;

(iv) Tanks with an RPB, an internal tank bottom liner and cathodically
protected bottom must have an internal inspection by January 1, 2008, or
within 20 years after a prior internal inspection, whichever is later, and at
least every 20 years thereafter;

(v) Tanks containing No. 6 fuel oil must have an internal inspection by
January 1, 2003, or within 20 years after a prior internal inspection,
whichever is later, and at least every 20 years thereafter;

(vi) Tanks containing No. 6 fuel oil with a cathodically protected bottom
must have an internal inspection by January 1, 2008, or within 20 years
after a prior internal inspection, whichever is later, and at least every 20
years thereafter;

(vii) Tanks containing asphalt must have an external/internal inspection by
January 1, 2003, or within 20 years after a prior internal inspection,
whichever is later, and at least every 20 years thereafter; and

(viii) Tanks containing asphalt with a cathodically protected bottom must
have an external/internal inspection by January 1, 2008, or within 20 years
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                   Edition))
after a prior external/internal inspection, whichever is later, and at least
every 20 years thereafter.

Note: API 653 inspections performed prior to the adoption of this chapter
and in compliance with all requirements of API 653 including using a
certified inspector shall count as the first inspection under this chapter.

(i) Internal inspections must be in accordance with API 653, Tank
Inspection Repair, Alteration and Reconstructions 2nd Ed., December
1995, with Addendum 1 (Dec. 1996). If, during the inspection, evidence is
found of a change from the original physical condition of the tank, then the
suitability of the tank for continued service must be evaluated in accordance
with API 653. Internal inspections and suitability for service evaluations
must be conducted by an API certified 653 inspector. Inspection records
must be kept for review by the Commissioner or representative of the
Commissioner. Any hole or failure of a tank or piping must be reported to
the Department.

(j) For asphalt tanks the following inspection requirements will, for the
purpose of this chapter, meet the intent of API 653, paragraph 4.5,
Alternative to Internal Inspection to Determine Bottom Thickness.

(i) Inspections for indications of asphalt seepage and stability of the
foundation, such as erosion or fill migration or settlement, must be
performed around the exterior perimeter of the tank where the tank floor is
flush with the ring wall foundation or pad foundation. For the purposes of
this section, the pad foundation refers to earth or concrete.

(ii) Inspections must also be made around the external shell to floor joint for
indications of seepage or cracked weld seams.

(iii) If the tank wall or floor is riveted construction, rivets must be inspected
for indications of seepage or corrosion which could indicate a rivet losing
strength. Insulation must be temporarily removed to allow inspection of
rivets at 10 to 16 locations. If the inspection reveals a significant number of
leaking rivets, then an expanded detailed inspection plan shall be prepared
and submitted to the Department for approval.

Repair of leaking rivets can be made using the best acceptable industry
practices at that time. Care must be given to allow for thermal expansion of
the shell, rivet and hole in determining the proper repair procedure.

(iv) The tank perimeter must be inspected for indications of tank settling
such as floor or shell deformations. If the exterior of the tank is insulated,
inspections for shell deformation must be conducted from the interior of the
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
tank. The exterior floor elevations must be checked at 8 evenly spaced
locations around the perimeter of the tank using a level. Records of the
elevations must be kept for comparison with those gathered at subsequent
inspections to detect any long-term settling.

(v) Floor thickness must be measured at 6 to 8 locations distributed
throughout the interior bottom. At least one of these points must be within 6
inches of the shell. Asphalt at these points must be removed to bare metal. If
there is any evidence of external or internal corrosion of the tank shell or
floor, the floor thickness must be measured at the suspected point of
minimal remaining floor thickness. Use the minimum reading floor
thickness observed as the floor thickness to compare with acceptable
minimum thicknesses. If corrosion is present, allowances must be made for
future metal loss in determining whether to replace the tank bottom or
schedule for the next inspection.

(vi) In the event that local inspections of the tank reveal weld cracks, leaking
rivets or other indications of joint failure, the entire floor must be cleaned
and inspected, or replaced with a new floor in accordance with API Standard
653.

(vii)The inspection of the balance of the tank should be in accordance with
API Standards 650 and 653, as well as any repairs or modifications made.

(3) Steam or Heating Devices. No person may discharge exhaust steam
containing oil from any coil or other device used to heat oil directly or
indirectly into the waters of the State unless all oil has been removed from
such discharge.

(4) Records. Owners or operators shall maintain records documenting
required training, inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs. Unless
otherwise specified, such records must be kept on file at the facility for three
years, and must be available for inspection upon the request of the
Commissioner or representative of the Commissioner. In cases involving
enforcement action, the three-year period for maintaining such records is
automatically extended until the action is finally resolved.

(5) Financial Responsibility Requirements. The Commissioner requires
evidence of financial responsibility in the amount of $2 million per facility as
a condition of an operating license to ensure proper closure of facilities.
Financial responsibility may be established, subject to the approval of the
Commissioner, by any one, or by any combination, of the following:
insurance, guarantee, surety bond, letter of credit, trust fund or qualification
as self-insurer. In determining the adequacy of evidence of financial
responsibility, the Commissioner shall consider the criteria in 40 CFR,
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
Sections 280.95 through 280.99 and 280.102 through 280.103(revised as of
July 1, 1998). Any bond filed must be issued by a bonding company
authorized to do business in the United States. The Commissioner may
change the amount of financial responsibility required if an engineering
assessment of probable closure costs indicates such a change in the
requirement would be appropriate.

10. Intrastate Pipelines. This chapter expressly adopts and incorporates
by reference the regulations concerned with or related to the safety
standards and accident reporting requirements for intrastate pipeline
facilities used in the transportation of oil in 49 CFR Part 195 (October 1,
1998).

11. Land Based Oil Terminal Facility Staff Training

(1) Persons directly involved in the day to day operations of an oil terminal
facility shall be trained and experienced in the proper operations,
procedures and required maintenance of the facility, and in procedures to
respond to discharges of oil. Each facility must appoint an individual who is
responsible for oil discharge prevention and accountable for any oil
discharge. This individual shall schedule training sessions for operational
personnel to ensure a complete understanding of the federal Spill
Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (SPCC) plan, Oil Pollution Act of
1990 (OPA 90) plan, and any applicable contingency plan,

(2) Personnel directly involved in the day to day operations of an oil
terminal facility shall be trained annually on the requirements of this
chapter

(3) Upon request of the Commissioner, records must be made available
indicating the titles, job descriptions, and training summaries of those
employees required to receive the training found in paragraph (1) above. All
training records shall be kept for a minimum of 3 years.

12. Non-Operating Tanks And Facilities

A. Facility Lockout. When a facility is not in use or under competent
supervision for 7 consecutive days, the gates and other access ways must be
closed and locked, and the loading valves, filling and gauging pipes must be
locked. All tanks, piping, equipment and other devices must be capped or
blanked in a manner to prevent their use. Valves that isolate tanks, piping
and equipment or that may permit a discharge must be locked in the closed
position. Any dedicated electrical or hydraulic control devices serving the
tank, piping or other equipment must be locked in the closed position.
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
B. Temporarily Out of Service. Storage tanks and oil that are
temporarily out of service for 12 or more months must be closed as follows:

(1) All oil must be removed from the tank and piping system to the lowest
drawoff point. Any waste oil from the tank must be disposed of in
accordance with all applicable state and federal requirements:

(2) Tanks must be protected from flotation in accordance with good
engineering practices if in a 100-year flood plain;

(3) All openings must be secured and locked. Fill pipes, down loading pipes
and any other pipes and openings must be capped or secured to prevent
access to, or accidental or unauthorized use or tampering;

(4) Storage tanks or facilities that are temporarily out of service are subject
to all requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, periodic
testing, inspection, licensing and reporting requirements; and

(5) Tanks or piping that are temporarily out of service for more than 2 years
must be cleaned and rendered free of oil vapors and certified by a marine
chemist or a certified industrial hygienist to be gas free. Liquid and sludge
must be removed from the tank and connecting pipes.

C. Closure of Tanks Permanently Out of Service. A tank or piping is
permanently out of service when it has been temporarily out of service for
more than 10 years. Any tank or facility that is permanently out of service
must comply with the following:

(1) Provisions must be made for natural breathing of the tank to ensure that
the tank remains vapor-free;

(2) All connecting piping must be disconnected and removed or securely
capped or plugged. All tank openings must be secured and locked;

(3) Tanks must be marked with the date of when the tank was taken
permanently out of service;

(4) Aboveground tanks must be protected from flotation in accordance with
good engineering practice; and

(5) A tank that has been permanently out of service may not be reinstalled
for petroleum storage unless a suitability for service inspection, in
accordance with API Standard 653, Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration
and Reconstruction, Second Ed., December 1995, with Addendum 1
(December 1996), has been performed.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                    Edition))
D. Facility Closure. At total facility closure, or when a licensee chooses to
release the facility license, the owner/operator shall comply with the
following:

(1) Prepare a written facility closure plan and implementation schedule
within 60 days of the owner/operator's decision to close the oil terminal
facility and submit it to the Department for approval. The plan must
provide:

(a) For removal of all oil and oil residuals from tanks, discharge control
equipment, discharge confinement structures and containment systems.
Cleaned tanks can remain in place;

(b) For decontamination or removal of all remaining containers, liners,
bases and soil containing or contaminated with oil or oil residuals;

(c) For removal of underground piping; and

(d) A comprehensive piping survey that shows the location of all former
pipes, current pipes and abandoned pipes.

(2) In lieu of removal of underground piping, the owner or operator may
propose an abandonment plan for review and approval of the
Commissioner. The plan must at a minimum include:

(a) A feasibility analysis for removal of underground piping. This analysis
must include the rationale for non removal of piping sections including for
such reasons as the piping is located beneath permanent structures, is
inaccessible to heavy equipment, or is located in such a manner or is of such
a great size that it is impractical to remove; and

(b) For piping that is not feasible to remove:

(i) a method for the removal of all product sludges and liquids from the
piping;

(ii) a method of filling the piping with solid inert material such that the pipes
will not serve as an avenue for discharges of products stored at the facility in
the future; and

(iii) a method for capping sections of abandoned piping.

(3) Complete the facility closure plan to the satisfaction of the Department.
The Commissioner may require soil, ground water and other testing as a
part of the facility closure plan. A facility must not be put into non-oil service
without compliance with this requirement. The owner shall not carry out
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                    Edition))
any facility closure activities until the Commissioner has approved the
facility closure plan.

(4) File a written facility closure report with the Department, which must
include a certification from an independent engineer that the facility closure
was conducted in accordance with the approved facility closure plan and
that all regulated substances have been removed or cleaned up to the
satisfaction of the Department.

(5) Following the Commissioner's acceptance of the facility closure report,
the owner or operator must file an underground piping survey that meets
the requirements of Section 12 (D)(1)(d) with the county Registry of Deeds.

(6) If a facility is used as a bulk terminal, it must be operated for two years
or more as a bulk terminal before the facility closure requirements for oil
terminal facilities no longer apply.

E. Owner Responsibility. When ownership of a facility, or a tank, or
piping is unknown, the current property operator is responsible for proper
closure of the facility.

13. Licensing

A. Oil Terminal Facility License. No oil terminal facility may transfer or
cause to be transferred or consent to the transfer of any oil unless that oil
terminal facility holds a valid license issued by the Commissioner pursuant
to 38 M.R.S. Sections 544 and 545 and this chapter, and the facility is
abiding by all the conditions listed on that license.

After public notice and public hearing November 21, 1977 the above
regulation is hereby adopted this 21st day of December, 1977.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S. Section 546 (4)

EFFECTIVE DATE:

October 21, 1971

AMENDED:

July 12, 1973

January 15, 1974

October 1, 1974
    06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
February 8, 1978 (Filed 8-10-79)

November 7, 1999 - Except that the Effective dates for Existing facilities
shall be as follows:

Section 7(I) is effective February 5, 2000;

Sections 7(E)(2), 7(H), 7(J)(2)(b); 8(C)(3) 8(C)(8) and 8(C)(9) are effective
November 7, 2000;

Section 9(C)(1)(c) is effective November 7, 2001; and

Section 7(E)(1), 7(E)(5), 8(F)(1) 8(B)(5)(b), 8(C)(2), 8(C)(6), 8(C)(7) and
8(I) are effective November 7, 2004.

EFFECTIVE DATE (ELECTRONIC CONVERSION):

May 4, 1996

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTIONS:

April 12, 1999

AMENDED:

March 24, 2001

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTIONS:

March 16, 2004 - elimination of out-of-place underlines

AMENDED:

April 3, 2016 - definitions 2(AA, CC); changed M.R.S.A. to M.R.S.

APPENDIX A

SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS

FOR VERTICAL GROUND WATER MONITORING WELLS

1. Monitoring wells must be a minimum of 2 inches in diameter.

2. The screened zone must extend at least 10 feet into the water table and at
least 5 feet above the ground water surface, as determined at the time of
installation; or when installed within a secondary containment liner, the
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
 Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
base of the well screen must extend to within 6 inches of the low point of the
liner.

3. The screened portion of a well outside a liner must be a minimum of 15
feet in length and must be factory slotted with a slot size of 0.010 inch.

4. Monitoring wells must be installed with a cap at the bottom of the slotted
section of the well.

5. Monitoring wells must be constructed of flush joint, threaded schedule 40
PVC or other types of PVC which have equivalent or greater wall thicknesses.

6. Monitoring wells must be numbered such that all monitoring and testing
results may be easily correlated to a specific monitoring well location.

7. All monitoring wells must be equipped with liquid-proof lockable caps.

8. Monitoring wells must be properly distinguished from oil piping using
American Petroleum Institute recommended symbols.

9. The area around the screened portion of the well must be surrounded by a
porous medium (e.g., sand, gravel, or pea stone).

10. The outside of the well riser must be sealed to the wall of the boring
using bentonite or a similar product to a depth of 1.5 feet below ground
surface, or to 0.5 feet above the water table, whichever is shallower.

11. Monitoring wells which are located in traffic areas must be cut off at
ground level, clearly marked, with a raised limited access cover in
accordance with PEI Publication RP100-90 (1990) or properly protected
from vehicles.

12. Any damaged monitoring well must be repaired, replaced or properly
abandoned as soon as possible after discovery of the damage.

13. Monitoring wells must be installed with a boring rig rather than a
backhoe if they are not installed within a containment liner.

14. Unless required by the Department, monitoring wells within a diked area
should be properly abandoned, or completed in such a way to prevent
leakage of oil via the well should a spill occur within the diked area.
Monitoring wells should be abandoned in accordance with the "Handbook of
Suggested Practices for Design and Installation of Ground water Monitoring
Wells, Aller et al., 1989, EPA document number 600/4-89/034.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                  Edition))
15. All wells completed as stick-ups should be completed with a protective
steel casing.

APPENDIX B

OIL SAMPLING AND STORAGE PROCEDURE

In general, sampling procedures must conform to the following guidelines in
the API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards:

Chapter 8.1, Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Oil, Second Ed., October
1989 (ANSI/ASTM D4057-88); and

Chapter 8.2, Automatic Sampling of Petroleum and Oil, First Ed., April
1983; Reaffirmed August 1987 (ANSI/ASTM D4177).

LABELING

A tag or label must be attached to each collected sample. Waterproof and oil
proof ink or a pencil hard enough to dent the tag must be used. The
following information must be included on the label:

1. Name of the vessel

2. Home port of the vessel

3. Sample date and time

4. Name and signature of the sampler

5. Tank sampled

6. Oil type

7. Oil origin

8. Terminal

Whenever available, the following information also must be provided:

9. API specific gravity

10. Boiling point

11. Sulfur

12. Viscosity
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                              Edition))
13. Test date

14. Testing lab

15. Analyst

STORAGE

Samples must be subjected to storage conditions as soon as possible. Storage
must be in a dark, cool environment. The storage compartment must be
secured by lock and key with access assigned to designated personnel.
Samples must be stored under these conditions a minimum of (15) days.
Due to the potential fire hazard, adequate ventilation and other safety
precautions should be observed. Samples must be made available to the
Commissioner upon request.

Appendix C

Reference material may be obtained at the following locations:

Reference                                                                      Address
                                                                               American
                                                                               Petroleum
                                                                               Institute
Standard 620, Design and Construction of Large, Welded, Low Pressure
                                                                               1220 L Street,
Storage Tanks, 9th Edition, February 1996
                                                                               NW

                                                                               Washington,
                                                                               DC 20005
Standard 650, Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage 10th Edition, October, 1998   Same as above
RP 651, Cathodic Protection of Aboveground Storage Tanks 2nd Edition,
                                                                               Same as above
December 1997 (ANSI/API Std 651-1991) 25 pages, Order Number C65102
RP 652, Lining of Aboveground Petroleum Storage Tank Bottoms, 2nd Edition,
                                                                               Same as above
December 1997 (ANSI/API Std 652-1991) 10 pages, Order Number C65202
Std 653, Tank Inspection, Repair, Alteration and Reconstruction 2nd Edition,
                                                                               Same as above
December 1995-68 pages, Order Number C65302
RP 1615, Installation of Underground Petroleum Storage Systems, 5th Edition,
                                                                               Same as above
March 1996
Publication 1637, Using the API Color-Symbol System to Mark Equipment and
Vehicles for Product Identification at Services Stations and Distribution
                                                                               Same as above
Terminals, 2nd edition, September 1995-Includes one 1637A color chart-6
pages, Order Number A16370
RP 2003, Protection Against Ignitions Arising out of static, Lightning, and    Same as above
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
     Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                 Edition))
Stray Currents, 6th Edition, September 1998, 45 pages, Order Number K20036,
Std 570, Piping Inspection Code: Inspection, Repair, Alteration and Rerouting
                                                                              Same as above
of In-Service Piping Systems, 43 pages, Order Number C57000
                                                                              ASME

                                                                             22 Law Drive,
ASME B31. 1-1998-Power Piping                                                P.O. Box 2900

                                                                             Fairfield, NJ
                                                                             07007-2900
ASME B31.3-1996-Process Piping                                               Same as above
ASME B31.4-1992-Liquid Transportation Systems for Hydrocarbons, Liquid
                                                                             Same as above
Petroleum Gas, Anhydrous Ammonia, and Alcohols
                                                                             ASTM

                                                                             100 Barr
                                                                             Harbor Drive
ASME D4057-95 EI-Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products
                                                                             West
                                                                             Conshohocken,
                                                                             PA 19428
ASTM D4177-95-Methods for the Automatic Sampling of Petroleum and
                                                                             Same as above
Petroleum Products
                                                                             NACE
                                                                             International
NACE Standard RP 0285-95-Standard Recommended Practice: Corrosion
                                                                             P.O. Box
control of Underground storage tank systems by cathodic protection. Item #
                                                                             218340
21030
                                                                             Houston,
                                                                             Texas
NACE Standard RP 0169-96 Standard Recommended Practice: Control of
External Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping systems-      Same as above
Item # 21001
                                                                             NFPA

                                                                             11 Tracy Drive
NFPA Standard 30-Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code-1996 Edition
                                                                             Avon, MA
                                                                             02322-9910
                                                                             Petroleum
RP-200-96-Recommended Practices for Installation of Aboveground Storage      Equipment
Systems for Motor Vehicle Fueling, 31 pages                                  Institute
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
   Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                            Edition))
                                                                                P.O. Box 2380

                                                                                Tulsa, OK
                                                                                74101
RP 100-97-Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid
                                                                                Same as above
Storage System, 31 pages
                                                                                Steel Tank
                                                                                Institute

Publication # R893-89-Recommend Practice for External Corrosion Protection 570 Oakwood
of Shop Fabricated Aboveground Storage Tank Floors                         Road

                                                                         Lake Zurich,
                                                                         IL 60047
Publication #F911-93-Standard for Diked Aboveground Storage Tanks (DAST) Same as above
Publication F#921-98 Standard for Aboveground Tanks with Integral
                                                                         Same as above
Secondary Containment
                                                                         Underwriters
                                                                         Laboratories

                                                                                333 Pfingsten
UL-80 Standard for Steel Inside Tanks for Oil Burner Fuel-1996
                                                                                Road

                                                                                Northbrook, IL
                                                                                60062-2096
UL-142-Standard for Steel Aboveground Tanks for Flammable and
                                                                          Same as above
Combustible Liquids-1993
UL-2085-Standard for Insulated
Aboveground Tanks for Flammable and        Same as above
Combustible Liquids-December 1997
                                           The Illuminating Engineering Society of North
                                           America
HB-93-IESNA Lighting Handbook-8th
Edition, 989 pages, 1993                   120 Wall Street, Fl 17th

                                               New York, NY 10005
Steel Structures Painting Manual, Volume 1 &
2
                                               Society of Protective Coatings
Volume 1: Good Painting Practice, 3rd
                                               40 24th Street
Edition, 1993
                                               Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Volume 2: systems and Specification, 7th
Edition, 1995
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 600 Oil Discharge Prevention and
    Pollution Control Rules for Marine Oil Terminal Facilities,
Transportation Pipelines and Vessels (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))
Steel Structures Painting Manual          Same as above
Publication #:T479
                                          National Ground Water Association
Handbook of Suggested Practices for the
                                             601 Dempsey Road
Design and Installation of Ground-Water
Monitoring Wells-EPA Document Number:
                                             Westerville, OH 43081
EPA 600/6-89/034
                                             Superintendent of Documents

                                             P.O. Box 371954
40 CFR Part 112: Spill Prevention Control and
Countermeasures Plan Revised-1998             Pittsburgh, PA 15250

                                             Also obtained on Internet at
                                             http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/rfr/index.html
49 CFR Part 195 Transportation of Hazardous
                                            Same as above
Liquids by Pipeline Revised 1998.
46 United States Code, Section 2101 (1997)  Same as above
STI Recommended Practice for Corrosion      Steel Tank Institute
Protection of Underground Piping Networks
                                              570 Oakwood Road
associated with Liquid Storage and Dispensing
System, R892-91, 1991                         Lake Zurich, IL 60047
