 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 890: DESIGNATION of PFOS AND ITS SALTS AS
PRIORITY CHEMICALs

SUMMARY: This chapter designates perfluorooctane sulfonic acid
("PFOS") and its salts as priority chemicals and requires reporting for
certain children's products that contain PFOS or its salts.

1. Applicability.

A. This chapter applies to manufacturers or distributors of certain children's
products that are for sale in the State of Maine and contain intentionally
added amounts of PFOS or its salts.

B. Exemptions.

(1) Used products. This chapter does not apply to PFOS and its salts in
used products.

(2) Food and beverage packaging. A container or packaging for a food
or beverage product is exempt from the requirements of this chapter, unless
that product is intentionally marketed or intended for use by children under
three years of age.

(3) Transportation. The requirements of this chapter do not apply to
motor vehicles as defined in 29-A M.R.S. §101(42) or watercraft as defined
in 12 M.R.S. §13001(28) or their component parts, except that the use of
priority chemicals in detachable car seats is not exempt.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this chapter, the definitions found
in Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's Products, 06-096 C.M.R. ch.
880 §1 apply. The following terms, as used in this chapter, have the
following meanings:

A. Child care article. "Child care article" means a children's product
designed or intended by the manufacturer to facilitate sleep or the feeding of
children or to help children with sucking or teething.

B. Clothing. "Clothing" means an article of cloth or fiber, woven or
otherwise assembled, into a material suitable for wearing on the body and
their component parts; examples include but are not limited to pants, shirts,
and outerwear such as gloves, hats, or raingear, particularly items which are
marketed as having water resistant or repellant properties.

C. Cookware, tableware, and reusable food and beverage
containers. "Cookware, tableware, and reusable food and beverage
containers" means a container with a lid, cover, cap or nipple that is
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


manufactured or intended for storing, carrying or transporting food or
beverages, including, but not limited to, baby bottles, spill-proof cups, sports
bottles and thermoses, as well as reusable or disposable dishes, utensils and
other articles used in setting a table and/or serving a meal, including, but
not limited to: plates, bowls, cups/glasses, spoons, knives and forks; this
category does not include a receptacle that contains food or beverage at the
time of sale.

D. Cosmetics and personal care products. "Cosmetics and personal
care products" means a product used on the body, typically on the skin, hair,
eyes, or nails for the purpose of beautification or adornment, including a
product applied to the body for hygienic care or treatment (such as skin,
hair, eyes, ears, mouth, or nails), including but not limited to creams, soaps,
oils, bath additives, mouthwash, powders, and sprays.

E. Craft supplies. "Craft supplies" means any art supply sold for the
purpose of making something in a carefully skillful way using one's hands,
including but not limited to specialty papers, glue, writing utensils, and
color enhancers.

F. Electronic device. "Electronic device" means a consumer product
which displays information in the visual form, including but not limited to
computers, television, cell phone, or a monitor, and also includes hand-held
electronic devices.

G. Footwear. "Footwear" means an article intended to be worn on the feet,
such as shoes, slippers, or boots.

H. Household furniture and furnishings. "Household furniture and
furnishings" means consumer products that are large, movable items used to
make a space livable, including but not limited to bed frames, upholstered
couches or chairs, tables, desks, and storage units; and, other consumer
products intended for use as decorative accessories for a house or room,
including but not limited to bedding, textiles, ornaments, mirrors and
frames, curtains and carpeting.

I. Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid ("PFOS") and its salts.
"Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid ("PFOS") and its salts" means the chemical
having the molecular formula C8HF17O3S and Chemical Abstract Service
Registry Number (CAS RN) of 1763-23-1, and includes its salts identified as
the following: potassium perfluorooctane sulfonate (CAS RN 2795-39-3),
lithium perfluorooctane sulfonate (CAS RN 29457-72-5), ammonium
perfluorooctane sulfonate (CAS RN 29081-56-9), and diethanolammonium
perfluorooctane sulfonate (CAS RN 70225-14-8).
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


J. Sleepwear. "Sleepwear" means any product of wearing apparel such as
nightgowns, pajamas, or similarly related items, such as robes, intended to
be worn primarily for sleeping or activities related to sleeping.

K. Toy. "Toy" means a product designed or intended by the manufacturer
for use by a child when the child plays. "Toy" does not include helmets,
goggles or other personal protective equipment designed to protect the
wearer's body from injury during sports and recreation activities.

NOTE: For the definition of "children's product" see Toxic Chemicals in
Children's Products, 38 M.R.S. §1691(7) or Department rule, 06-096 C.M.R.
ch. 880 §1(G).

3. Designation of PFOS and its salts as priority chemicals.

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. PFOS and its salts are
present on the list of chemicals of high concern published by the
Department under 38 M.R.S. §1693-A, as of the effective date of this
chapter.

NOTE: To view the full list of chemicals of high concern, go to:
http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/highconcern/index.html.

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of
PFOS and its salts as priority chemicals, as set forth under 38 M.R.S. §1694,
have been met as documented in the basis statement accompanying this
chapter in that PFOS and its salts have been found:

(1) through biomonitoring to be present in human bodily tissues or fluids;

(2) through sampling and analysis to be present in household dust and
indoor air; and,

(3) to be present in consumer products which are used or present in the
home.

4. Information submission required.

A. Product categories. Manufacturers or distributors of products that
contain intentionally added amounts of PFOS or its salts, and fall into the
categories in this section, must submit information to the Department
pursuant to section 4(B) of this chapter:

(1) Child care article;

(2) Clothing;
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) Footwear;

(4) Sleepwear;

(5) Toy;

(6) Cookware, tableware, reusable food and beverage containers;

(7) Cosmetics and personal care products;

(8) Craft supplies;

(9) Electronic device; and

(10) Household furniture and furnishings.

B. Information required. No later than 180 days after the effective date
of this chapter, the manufacturer or distributor of a product, which falls
within the categories listed in section 4(A)(1-10) of this chapter, containing
intentionally added PFOS or its salts shall report to the Department the
following information:

(1) the name and address of the manufacturer or distributor;

(2) the name, address, and phone number of a contact person for the
manufacturer or distributor;

(3) a description of the manufacturer or distributor's product or products
containing PFOS or its salts, including the overall size of the product and/or
the component of the product that contains PFOS and whether the product
or PFOS-containing component of the product can be placed in the mouth
(if a reportable item is smaller than 5 centimeters in one dimension, it is
regarded as mouthable);

(3) the amount of PFOS or its salts in each unit of the product reported;

(4) the function of PFOS or its salts in the product reported;

(5) the number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally, in
accordance with Department Rule 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 880 §5(A)(2); and,

(6) any other information the manufacturer or distributor deems relevant to
the reporting of the PFOS or its salts for the Department's consideration,
such as relevant independent scientific study on exposure specific to the
amount of PFOS or its salts present in the finished product reported or
product of similar functionality. Such information may include an
assessment that has already been performed by the manufacturer or
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


distributor of the availability, cost, feasibility and/or performance, including
potential for harm to human health and the environment, of alternatives to
PFOS or its salts and the reason PFOS or its salts are used in the
manufacture or distributor of the reported product in lieu of identified
alternatives.

C. Information not submitted within 180-day deadline. If the sale of
the product does not commence until after the 180-day reporting period
ends, the written notice required under section 4(B) must be submitted
within 30 days of the sale of the product within the State of Maine. Failure to
provide the required information to the Department by the date required
may result in enforcement action consistent with 38 M.R.S. §1699-A.

NOTE: A regulated entity may request a waiver of the reporting
requirements in this chapter for reasons set forth in Department Rule 06-
096 C.M.R. ch. 880 §5(C). Upon review of information submitted pursuant
to this chapter the Commissioner may request that a manufacturer or
distributor clarify the submittal, supplement incomplete information or
provide additional information not specified in this chapter if the
Commissioner determines that the information is needed for the
Department to complete its evaluation of the priority chemical. See
Department Rules, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 880 §5(D); see also 38 M.R.S.
§1695(2).

5. Reporting fee. A one-time reporting fee will be assessed in accordance
with Department Rule, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 881 §3.

NOTE: Any person wishing to contest the amount of a fee imposed under
this section must pay the fee by the due date specified in the Department
invoice and file a petition in writing with the Commissioner requesting a
refund. See Department Rules, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 881 §6.

6. Department address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
reporting forms. Use the following address to send all non-electronic
correspondence to the Department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 890 Designation of Pfos and Its Salts as
    Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/index.html .

STATUTORY AUTHORITY:

38 M.R.S. §§ 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

July 28, 2020 - filing 2020-167
