 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 696 Oil Discharge and Pollution Control
  Rules for Rail Tank Cars (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


06-096 Chapter 696: OIL DISCHARGE PREVENTION AND POLLUTION
CONTROL RULES FOR RAIL TANK CARS

SUMMARY: This chapter sets forth minimum inspection, preparedness,
and reporting requirements for operators of rail tank cars transporting or
storing oil in Maine.

1. Preamble. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide necessary oil spill
prevention and control rules for the transportation and storage of oil in rail
tank cars to prevent discharges of oil to the waters and lands of the State.

2. Definitions. The following terms as used in this chapter have the
following meanings:

A. Commissioner. "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection.

B. Department. "Department" means the Department of Environmental
Protection composed of the Board of Environmental Protection and the
Commissioner.

D. Discharge. "Discharge" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, or dumping either directly or indirectly to the waters or
lands of the State of Maine.

D. Oil. "Oil" means oil, petroleum products and their by-products of any
kind and in any form including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel oil,
sludge, oil refuse, oil mixed with other wastes, crude oils, oil additives, and
all other liquid hydrocarbons regardless of specific gravity. Oil does not
include natural gas.

E. Operator. "Operator" means any person owning or operating a train,
railroad, or siding whether by lease, contract or any other form of
agreement.

F. Person. "Person" means any natural person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, trust, the State of Maine and any agency thereof,
governmental entity, quasi-governmental entity, the United States of
America and any agency thereof and any other legal entity.

G. Rail tank car. "Rail tank car" means a non-pressure tank car
manufactured pursuant to 49 CFR Part 179 Subpart D as amended up to
October 1, 2014.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 696 Oil Discharge and Pollution Control
  Rules for Rail Tank Cars (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


H. Response Plan. "Response Plan" means a written oil spill prevention
and response plan specified in 49 CFR §130.31 as amended up to October 1,
2014.

I. Siding. "Siding" means a section of a railroad track separate from the
main line used to store, separate or connect rail cars.

J. Train. "Train" means one or more engines coupled with one or more rail
cars, except during switching operations or where the operation is that of
classifying and assembling rail cars within a railroad yard for the purpose of
making or breaking up trains.

3. Applicability. This rule applies to any operator of a rail tank car or cars
containing oil in the State of Maine and any other person discharging or
suffering the discharge of oil from a rail tank car.

4. Oil Discharge Removal and Reporting Related to Rail Tank
Cars

A. Any person or operator discharging or suffering the discharge of oil
prohibited by 38 M.R.S.A. §543 shall immediately undertake to remove such
discharge to the Commissioner's satisfaction as required by 38 M.R.S.A.
§548. Notwithstanding the above requirement, the Commissioner may
undertake the removal or cleanup of that discharge, investigate and sample
sites where an oil discharge has occurred, and may retain agents and
contractors for those purposes.

B. In addition to the removal procedures, the following actions must be
taken:

(1) Telephone Report. An initial telephone report of any discharge must be
made to the Commissioner at (800) 482-0777 as soon as practicable but
within two hours of discovery. The report must include:

(a) Time of discharge;

(b) Location of discharge;

(c) Type and amount of oil; and

(d) Name and telephone number of person making report.

5. Response Plan. Any person who transports oil and stores, leaves, or
temporarily parks a rail tank car or cars containing oil at a siding for more
than five (5) consecutive days shall submit to the Department copies of the
written Response Plans specified in 49 CFR §130.31, if required to submit
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 696 Oil Discharge and Pollution Control
  Rules for Rail Tank Cars (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


such plans pursuant to 49 CFR §130. If revised plans are submitted under 49
CFR §130.31, copies of those revisions must also be submitted to the
Department.

6. Inspections. Any person or operator who stores, leaves, or temporarily
parks a rail tank car or cars containing 42,000 gallons or more of oil in the
aggregate at a siding for more than five (5) consecutive days shall visually
inspect the cars for evidence of oil discharges a minimum of every 24 hours
and maintain a written log of the findings of such inspection. The inspection
shall include:

A. The date and time of the inspection;

B. The location of the siding;

C. The number of rail tank cars containing oil;

D. The name of the inspector; and

E. The results of the inspection including a determination that there is no
evidence of discharge of oil from the rail tank cars.

A copy of the written log may be requested from the operator by the
Commissioner and shall be made available as soon as practicable upon such
request.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S.A. §546

EFFECTIVE DATE:

March 26, 2015 - filing 2015-053 (EMERGENCY)

EFFECTIVE DATE:

June 22, 2015 - filing 2015-113
