     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
  Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                           Edition))

Chapter 889: DESIGNATION of Two FLAME RETARDANTS AS
PRIORITY CHEMICALS

SUMMARY: This chapter designates two similarly used chemicals of high
concern as priority chemicals and requires reporting for certain children's
products that contain one or more of these regulated chemicals.

1. Applicability

A. This chapter applies to manufacturers or distributors of certain children's
products that are for sale in the State of Maine and contain intentionally
added amounts of decabromodiphenyl ether (deca BDE) and/or
hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD), which are used in the non-polymeric,
additive form.

B. Exemptions

(1) Used products. This chapter does not apply to Regulated Flame
Retardants in used products.

(2) Food and beverage packaging. A container or packaging for a food
or beverage product is exempt from the requirements of this chapter, unless
that product is intentionally marketed or intended for use by children under
two years of age.

(3) Transportation. The requirements of this chapter do not apply to
motor vehicles as defined in 29-A M.R.S. §101(42) or watercraft as defined
in 12 M.R.S. §13001(28) or their component parts, except that the use of
Regulated Flame Retardants in detachable car seats is not exempt.

2. Definitions. For terms not defined in this chapter, the definitions found
in Regulation of Chemical Use in Children's Products, 06-096 C.M.R. ch.
880(1) apply. The following terms, as used in this chapter, have the
following meanings:

Child Care Article. "Child Care Article" means a children's product
designed or intended by the manufacturer to facilitate sleep or the feeding of
children or to help children with sucking or teething.

Children's Clothing. "Children's Clothing" means an article of cloth or
fiber, woven or otherwise assembled, into a material suitable for wearing on
the body of a child under the age of 12 years, and their component parts;
examples include but are not limited to pants, shirts, and outerwear such as
gloves, hats, or raingear.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
  Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                           Edition))

Children's Footwear. "Children's Footwear" means an article intended to
be worn on the feet of a child under the age of 12 years, such as shoes or
slippers.

Children's Sleepwear. "Children's Sleepwear" means any product of
wearing apparel (in sizes 0-14), such as nightgowns, pajamas, or similarly
related items, such as robes, intended to be worn primarily for sleeping or
activities related to sleeping.

Children's Toy. "Children's Toy" means a children's product designed or
intended by the manufacturer for a child under the age of 12 years for use by
the child when the child plays. "Children's Toy" does not include helmets,
googles or other personal protective equipment designed to protect the
wearer's body from injury during sports and recreation activities.

Electronic Device. "Electronic Device" means a consumer product which
displays information in the visual form, including but not limited to
computers, television, cell phone, or a monitor, and also includes hand-held
electronic devices marketed to or intended for use by a child under the age
of 12 years.

Household Furniture and Furnishings. "Household Furniture and
Furnishings" means consumer products that are large, movableproducts
used to make a space livable, including but not limited to bed frames,
upholstered couches or chairs, tables, desks, and storage units, and other
children's products intended for use as decorative accessories for a house or
room, including but not limited to bedding, textiles, clocks, ornaments,
pictures, mirrors and frames.

Mattress. "Mattress" means ticking filled with a resilient material used
alone or in combination with other products intended or promoted for
sleeping upon, including portable crib mattresses.

Mattress Pad. "Mattress Pad" means a thin, flat mat or cushion, and/or
ticking filled with resilient material intended or promoted for use on top of a
mattress.

Regulated Flame Retardants. "Regulated Flame Retardants" means any
one of the following: decabromodiphenyl ether with a CAS number of 1163-
19-5; hexabromocyclododecane with a CAS number of 25637-99-4.

Ticking. "Ticking" means the outermost layer of fabric or related material
that encloses the core and upholstery materials of a mattress or mattress
pad.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
  Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                           Edition))

NOTE: For the definition of "children's product" see Toxic Chemicals in
Children's Products, 38 M.R.S. §1691(7) or Department rule, 06-096 C.M.R.
ch. 880(1)(G).

3. Designation of two Regulated Flame Retardants as priority
chemicals

A. Presence on chemicals of high concern list. The Regulated Flame
Retardants are present on the list of chemicals of high concern published by
the Department under 38 M.R.S. §1693-A, as of the effective date of this
chapter.

NOTE: To view the full list of chemicals of high concern, go to:
http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/highconcern/index.html.

B. Criteria for designation. The following criteria for designation of the
two Regulated Flame Retardants as priority chemicals, as set forth under 38
M.R.S. §1694, have been met as documented in the basis statement
accompanying this chapter:

(1) The regulated Flame Retardants have been found through biomonitoring
to be present in human bodily tissues or fluids;

(2) The regulated Flame Retardants have been found through sampling and
analysis to be present in household dust and indoor air; and

(3) The regulated Flame Retardants have been found to be present in
consumer products which are used or present in the home.

4. Information submission required

A. Product categories. Manufacturers of children's products that contain
intentionally added amounts of the Regulated Flame Retardants specified in
this chapter, and which fall into the following categories, must submit
information to the Department pursuant to section 4(B) of this chapter:

(1) Child Care Article;

(2) Children's Sleepwear;

(3) Children's Toy;

(4) Children's Clothing;

(6) Children's Footwear;

(7) Electronic Device;
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
  Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                           Edition))

(8) Household Furniture and Furnishings;

(9) Mattress;

(10) Mattress Pad.

B. Information required. No later than 180 days after the effective date
of this chapter, the manufacturer of a children's product, which falls within
the categories listed in section 4(A) of this chapter, that contains
intentionally added Regulated Flame Retardants shall report to the
Department the following information:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the name, address, and
phone number of a contact person for the manufacturer;

(2) A description of the manufacturer's product or products containing
Regulated Flame Retardants, including the overall size of the product
and/or the component of the product that contains the Regulated Flame
Retardant and whether the product or Regulated Flame Retardant-
containing component of the product can be placed in the mouth (if a
reportable item is smaller than 5 centimeters in one dimension, it is
regarded as mouthable);

(3) The amount of Regulated Flame Retardant in each unit of the product
reported;

(4) The function of Regulated Flame Retardant in the product reported;

(5) The number of product units sold or distributed in Maine or nationally,
in accordance with Department Rule 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 880(5)(A)(2);

(6) Any other information the manufacturer deems relevant to the reporting
of the Regulated Flame Retardant, such as relevant independent scientific
study on exposure specific to the amount of Regulated Flame Retardant
present in the finished product reported or product of similar functionality.
Such information may include an assessment that has already been
performed by the manufacturer of the availability, cost, feasibility and/or
performance, including potential for harm to human health and the
environment, of alternatives to Regulated Flame Retardant and the reason
Regulated Flame Retardant are used in the manufacture of the reported
children's product in lieu of identified alternatives.

C. Information Not Submitted within 180-day Deadline. If the sale
of the regulated children's product does not commence until after the 180-
day reporting period ends, the written notice required under section 4(B)
must be submitted within 30 days of the sale of the children's product within
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
  Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                           Edition))

the State of Maine. Failure to provide the required information to the
Department by the date required may result in enforcement action
consistent with 38 M.R.S. §1699-A.

NOTE: A regulated entity may request a waiver of the reporting
requirements in this chapter for reasons set forth in Department Rule 06-
096 C.M.R. ch. 880(5)(C). Upon review of information submitted pursuant
to this chapter the commissioner may request that a manufacturer clarify
the submittal, supplement incomplete information or provide additional
information not specified in this chapter if the commissioner determines
that the information is needed for the Department to complete its evaluation
of the priority chemical. See Department Rules, 06-096 C.M.R. ch.
880(5)(D); see also 38 M.R.S. §1695(2).

5. Reporting Fee. A one-time reporting fee will be assessed in accordance
with Department Rule, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 881(3).

NOTE: Any person wishing to contest the amount of a fee imposed under
this section must pay the fee by the due date specified in the Department
invoice and file a petition in writing with the Commissioner requesting a
refund. See Department Rules, 06-096 C.M.R. ch. 881(6).

6. Department Address. Information submissions may be made by
regular or electronic mail. The department may provide electronic or paper
reporting forms. Use the following address to send all non-electronic
correspondence to the Department:

Maine Department of Environmental Protection

Safer Chemicals Program

17 State House Station

Augusta, ME 04333

NOTE: Electronic reporting forms and/or email addresses for reporting will
be provided at:

http://www.maine.gov/dep/safechem/index.html .

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 M.R.S. §§ 1691 through 1699-B

EFFECTIVE DATE:

March 4, 2017 - filing 2017-029
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 889 Designation of Two Flame
Retardants as Priority Chemicals (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                         Edition))
