06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 531. REGULATIONS FOR WASTEWATER OPERATOR
CERTIFICATION

SUMMARY. These rules establish the criteria that a person must meet in
order to be certified as an operator of a wastewater treatment plant.
Treatment plants are classified as Grades I-V Biological Treatment, Grade I-
III Physical/Chemical Treatment, or Spray Irrigation Treatment System
according to population equivalents or type of treatment. Certification for
each operator Grade I-V Biological, Grade I-III Physical/Chemical or Small
or Large Spray Irrigation Treatment Systems is based on education and
experience. There are provisions for substituting education for experience as
well as certain work experience for actual treatment plant experience.

1. General Conditions

A. Applicability. A person who is an operator of a wastewater treatment
plant which requires a certified operator under the provisions of Title 32,
MRSA, Chapter 62, is subject to these rules.

B. Contract Operators. A proposed contract for facility operation by any
firm or individual must be approved by the Maine Department of
Environmental Protection (Department) within 2 weeks of the contractor
being retained by the permittee. The guidelines for the review of operational
contracts are available upon request.

C. Provisional Certification. Graduates of the New England Regional
Wastewater Institute at Southern Maine Vocational Technical Institute,
South Portland, Maine (now Southern Maine Community College); the
Environmental Technology Course at Eastern Maine Vocational Technical
Institute, Bangor, Maine (now Eastern Maine Community College); or other
equivalent programs, are eligible for Grade III or lower examination and
certification. The examination must be as administered by the Department.
Such certification shall be provisional pending successful completion of one
year of work experience in a Grade II or higher treatment facility under the
direct supervision of a fully certified operator. Following this year, a full
certificate may be requested. The Department shall then evaluate the quality
of the work experience. This evaluation must determine the operators
overall proficiency in operations and maintenance of wastewater treatment
systems, process control, laboratory procedures and sludge handling
processes. If satisfactory, a full certificate will be awarded. This provisional
upgrade must be requested, it is not automatic.

D. Applicability to Professional Engineers. Violation of 32 M.R.S.A.
§§4171 - 4182, Sewage Treatment Operators, by an operators who is a
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


registered professional engineers will be reported to the Maine State Board
of Registration for Professional Engineers.

E. Display of Certificate. The wastewater treatment plant operator's
certificate issued by the Department must be displayed in a prominent
location at the operator's place of work.

F. Qualification to Operate Plants by Grade. A wastewater treatment
plant operator, unlessqualifying under 32 MRSA § 4177, who is certified by
the Department is considered qualified to operate a plant grade equal to or
lower than the certificate grade. An operators qualified under 32 MRSA §
4177 is only permitted to operate the plant in which he or she was employed
at the time the certificate was issued.

2. Classification of Wastewater Treatment Plants

A. Classification of Biological Treatment Plants. A biological
wastewater treatment plant is classified on a population equivalent (P.E.) of
0.2 lbs. of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and 100 gallons per person
per day. The treatment plant design capacity will be the major classification
criteria in determining such population equivalent. Plant grade will be
determined on the following basis except as noted in Section 2(C).

Size (P.E.)      Secondary- Biological Advanced Treatment* Other Defined Treatment**
Up to 5,000      II                    III                 I
5,000 to 15,000 III                    IV                  II
15,000 to 50,000 IV                    V                   III
50,000 and over V                      V                   IV

*Advanced treatment includes one or more of the following.

1. Advanced biological/chemical methods;

2. Ion Exchange, Reverse Osmosis or Electrodialysis; or,

3. Chemical recovery or Carbon regeneration.

**Other defined treatment includes one or more of the following.

1. Separate sludge digestion with gas collection; or,

2. Mechanical sludge dewatering or sludge incineration.

B. Classification of Physical/Chemical Treatment Plants. A
physical/chemical treatment plants is classified by the Department following
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


a standard evaluation of the facility. These facilities will be classified as
Grades I, II, or III.

C. Classification of Spray Irrigation Treatment Plants. A treatment
system including one or more stabilization ponds followed by spray
irrigation with no direct discharge to a surface water body is classified as
Spray Irrigation Treatment Systems (SITS).

1. A Spray Irrigation Treatment System used to treat only domestic sanitary
wastewater having a spray irrigation site size of 10 acres or less is classified
as Grade I Spray Irrigation Systems (SITS-I)

2. All other Spray Irrigation Treatment Systems are classified as Grade 2
Spray Irrigation Systems (SITS-II).

D. Upgrade of Downgrade of Plant Classification. The Department
may upgrade or downgrade individual plants if, in its opinion, the
complexity of the plant and degree of skill required for its operation are not
properly accounted for in the above categories.

3. Requirements For Certification

A. Operator Grades Five grades of biological treatment system operators,
three grades of physical/chemical treatment system operators and two
grades of Spray Irrigation Treatment System operators are established to
parallel the previously described classification of wastewater treatment
plants. A Grade I certified operator is considered qualified to supervise the
operation of a Grade I plant; a Grade V certified operator is considered
qualified to supervise the operation of Grade V or lower plants. A person
certified to operate a Spray Irrigation Treatment Systems is considered
qualified to supervise and operate only systems meeting the criteria
established by the Department. A person currently certified to operate a
Grade II biological treatment system or higher may operate a Spray
Irrigation Treatment System without obtaining additional certification.

B. Qualifications for Certification. Each applicant shall satisfy the
experience requirements for the grade of certification requested. Education
may be substituted for experience as set forth below. Educational
substitutions will be based on the following.

(1) High school education or equivalent is credited for two years of
experience.

(2) Post high school education in approved areas of engineering, science
and/or related fields. 30 semester hours, or equivalent, equals 1 year.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) Specialized training courses will be evaluated on the basis of training
credits; six classroom hours of approved courses equals one credit, 45
credits equals one year. Examples. 36 hour course= 6 credits; Sacramento
Course= 15 credits per volume.

(4) A person attending a course approved by the Department where
attendance credit is given in Continuing Education Units (C.E.U.s) is
credited with 10 training hours for each C.E.U. earned.

(5) All experience or education submitted in support of applications that is
not specified in this section shall be evaluated on an individual basis.

C. Examination Requirement. Qualifying examinations are required of
all applicants for certification. Persons holding valid certificates in other
states may be certified at a comparable grade level without examination,
providing all other requirements are met. The applicant must have passed a
written examination in the other state before reciprocity can be granted. The
other state must also grant reciprocity to operators certified by the State of
Maine.

D. Types of Certificates. Certificates will be issued attesting to the
holder's ability to operate one or more of three general types of treatment
systems.

B= Systems utilizing biological means of treatment;

P/C= Systems utilizing physical or chemical means of treatment; or,

SITS= Systems using spray irrigation as the means of treatment.

A certificate authorizes the holder to operate only that type system for which
the certificate was issued.

E. General Requirements and Definitions

(1) An applicant for a certificate is required to pass an examination for that
grade.

(2) Work experience in a treatment plant is defined as that gained in actual
performance of important operating functions within any wastewater
treatment facility.

(3) Work experience in a related field includes activities such as plant
operation, pilot studies, design, planning, wastewater treatment plant
construction, related laboratory work. Activities must be of a kind related to
the type of treatment process indicated in the application.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(4) See Section 3(B) for educational substitutions. High school education is
not considered related education for certification purposes.

(5) Grade I Operator

The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of graduation
from high school or at least two years experience operating a wastewater
treatment plant.

(6) Grade II Operator

(A) The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of at least
four years experience in a wastewater treatment plant. Education may be
substituted for no more than three years of experience; or

(B) Submit satisfactory evidence of three years of related education and one
year of related work experience.

(7) Grade III Operator

(A) The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of at least
five years experience in a wastewater treatment plant. Education may be
substituted for no more than three years of experience; or

(B) Submit satisfactory evidence of at least three years of related education
and two years of related work experience.

(8) Grade IV Operator

(A) The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of at least
six years experience in a wastewater treatment plant, three years of which
must have been as operator of a Grade II or higher plant. Education may be
substituted for no more than three years of experience; or

(B) Submit satisfactory evidence of at least four years of related education
and three years of work experience at a Grade II or higher plant.

(9) Grade V Operator

(A) The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of at least
eight years experience in a wastewater treatment plant, four years of which
must have been as operator of a Grade III or higher plant. Education may be
substituted for no more than four years of experience; or

(B) Submit satisfactory evidence of at least four years of related education
and four years of work experience at a Grade III or higher plant.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(10) Grade SITS - I and Grade SITS - II Operator

The applicant for this grade shall submit satisfactory evidence of graduation
from high school or at least two years experience operating a Small Spray
Irrigation treatment system.

F. Advanced Treatment Examination. In addition to satisfying the
minimum requirements for operating plants of the appropriate grade level,
the operators of an advanced treatment plants must demonstrate by passing
an examination approved by the Department, that he or she possesses
special knowledge of advanced wastewater treatment. Applicants passing
such examinations will be awarded certificates so indicating.

4. Certification Procedure

A. Application Requirements. A candidate for a wastewater treatment
plant operator's certificate shall complete an application as furnished by the
Department. The notarized application, with appropriate fee, must be
forwarded to the address specified by the Department. A completed
applications with all supporting documentation must be received at least six
weeks prior to the examination date. Applications received after the
published application date will be held for the next examination period.

B. Application Process. An applicant having the necessary qualifications,
as set forth in Section 3, for initial certification or for upgrading present
classification, will be notified of the scheduled time and place of
examination. An applicant not possessing the necessary qualifications for
the requested grade will be allowed to reapply for a lower grade as qualified
based on his or her education and experience . An applicant may be
examined up to three months prior to being fully qualified for the desired
grade.

C. Reexamination. In the event that an applicant fails to pass an
examination, the applicant may be re-examined in the same or lower grade
at the next scheduled examination.

D. Training Requirement. The Department shall issue a permanent
certificate indicating the classification level of treatment system for which
the individual is qualified to act as operator. Certification must be renewed
on a biennial basis. Certificate holders with a Grade I-V Biological
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Certificate, a Grade I-III
Physical/Chemical Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Certificate, or a
SITS-II Spray Irrigation Treatment System Operator Certificate shall be
required to show proof of completion of at least 18 clock hours of training
during the period that his or her current certificate was in effect before the
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


certificate may be renewed for the next biennial period. No more than 6
hours of safety training may be used to comply with this requirement. A
certificate holder with SS-1 Spray Irrigation Treatment System Operator
Certificate is required to show proof of completion of at least 6 clock hours
of training during the period that their current certificate was in effect
before the certificate may be renewed for the next biennial period. The
Department may require an operator who performs permit compliance
laboratory work in a facility and who does not adequately demonstrate
proper sampling and analysis procedures and techniques during regular
compliance inspections to attend additional approved laboratory training.
This training must be approved by the Bureau of Land and Water Quality. A
list of approved courses is available upon request.

E. Maintenance of Current Address. Each certificate holder shall be
responsible for maintaining a current address on file with the Bureau of
Land and Water Quality. Address changes must be submitted to this Bureau
at least two months prior to the expiration of the current renewal period.
This certificate will be valid continuously when biennial renewal
requirements are satisfied prior to the expiration of the current renewal
period, unless otherwise revoked as provided by 32 M.R.S.A. §4175.

5. Failure To Renew; Reinstatement

A. Failure to Renew. Acertificate which is not renewed by the deadline for
renewal becomes inactive. No person, firm or corporation, either municipal
or private, may rely on an inactive certificate to satisfy the requirement of 32
M.R.S.A. §4181.

B. Reactivation within Six Months of inactivation. A certificate
holder who allows his or her certificates to lapse shall be reinstated if he or
she pays an appropriate administrative fee and shows proof of completion of
the clock hours of approved training required in Section 4(D) during the
period from two years before to six months after the renewal deadline.

C. Reactivation after Six Months of inactivation. A certificate that
has been inactive for more than six months but less than two years may be
reinstated if the certificate holder pays an appropriate administrative fee
and meets all the requirements for initial certification specified in Section 3.
However, the Departmentmay, in its discretion, waive the examination
requirement, if it finds that the holder of the certificate has performed his or
her duties satisfactorily and in a manner that demonstrates that an
examination is not necessary.

D. Loss of Certification. A certificate holders who allows his or her
certificates to remain inactive for two years or longer shall be removed from
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 531 Regulations for Wastewater Operator
       Certification (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


the master list of certified operators as maintained by the Department. A
certificate holder whose name has been so deleted isrequired to submit an
application for initial certification and examination to be certified in the
future.

AUTHORITY. 32 M.R.S.A. Section 4179

EFFECTIVE DATE: March 28, 1975

Amended: May 20, 1977

Amended: February 8, 1978

Amended: May 4, 1984

Amended: May 11, 1987

EFFECTIVE DATE (ELECTRONIC CONVERSION): May 4, 1996

EFFECTIVE DATE: May 8, 2006 - filing 2006-166
