13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

13-188

MAINE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE RESOURCES

CHAPTER 94

SANITARY CONTROL OF MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH

TITLE INDEX

94.01 Purpose and Scope

94.02 Definitions

94.03 Adoption by Reference

94.04 Shellstock Time to Temperature Controls

94.05 Prohibited Acts - Harvesters

94.06 Prohibited Acts - Dealers

94.07 Shellfish Sanitation Certificates

94.08 Harvest of Shellfish for Depuration

94.09 Transportation and Delivery of Shellfish for Depuration

94.10 State Seals

94.11 Permits

94.12 Embargo Procedure for Shellfish

94.13 Suspension, Revocation or Nonrenewal of Licenses, Permits or
Certification

94.01 Purpose and Scope

The purpose of this chapter is to provide uniform sanitary standards based
upon the National Shellfish Sanitation Program Model Ordinance titled
"Guide for the Control of Molluscan Shellfish", which was developed
through a Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference.

94.02 Definitions
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

In addition to definitions contained in the "Definitions" section of the Model
Ordinance, the following words and terms, when used in this chapter, have
the following meaning.

A. Buying station. A truck that is leased, owned or rented by the certified
dealer and which is used to transport shellstock purchased at a location
other than the dealer's permanent facility. The truck must be properly
constructed, operated and maintained to prevent contamination,
deterioration and decomposition of the shellstock in accordance with the
Model Ordinance.

B. Model Ordinance. The document entitled "National Shellfish
Sanitation Program Guide for the Control of Molluscan Shellfish", 2017
Revision, Sections I and II, published by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.

94.03 Adoption by Reference

A. Model Ordinance. The Model Ordinance is hereby incorporated by
reference and made part of this rule as if set out in full and all provisions
thereof are adopted. The Model Ordinance is available from the
Commissioner's Office at the Department of Marine Resources, 32 Blossom
Lane, Augusta, Maine, and online at: http://www.issc.org/nssp-guide.

B. Authority. The Maine Department of Marine Resources (DMR) or those
entities with which DMR has entered into a Memorandum of
Understanding, is the Authority responsible for the implementation and
enforcement of the Model Ordinance in Maine.

C. Control. Where there is inconsistency between Chapter 94 and the
Model Ordinance, these rules control. Where these rules are silent, the
Model Ordinance controls.

D. Compliance. Persons engaged in taking, buying, selling, possessing,
processing, depuration, wet storage, and transportation of shellfish shall
comply with the provisions of the Model Ordinance.

Exceptions: These requirements do not apply to persons who conduct
activities limited to:

1. Personal use as defined by 12 MRS §6001

2. Transporting shellfish as a common carrier as defined by 12 MRS §6001

3. Buying, selling, transporting, shipping or serving shellstock or shucked
shellfish purchased from a dealer in the retail trade
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

94.04 Shellstock Time to Temperature Controls

Harvesters shall comply with the Model Ordinance requirements for time to
temperature controls. From May 1 to September 30th , harvesters must
comply with Level 3 requirements. From October 1 to April 30, harvesters
must comply with Level 2 requirements.

94.05 Prohibited Acts - Harvesters

A. It is unlawful for any person other than the certified dealer to be in
possession of unused certified dealer tags.

B. It is unlawful to harvest, possess or sell shellstock from areas that are
closed due to marine biotoxins pursuant to Chapter 96 and bacterial
pollution pursuant to Chapter 95, and in those areas that may be closed by
the Department.

Exception: Harvest of shellstock from areas closed due to bacterial
pollution pursuant to Chapter 95 may be authorized under the issuance of a
depuration certificate.

C. It is unlawful to commingle shellstock, except as authorized by the
Department in accordance with the Model Ordinance.

D. It is unlawful to conduct wet storage activities except that certified
dealers may wet store in accordance with a permit issued by the
Department.

94.06 Prohibited Acts - Dealers

A. It is unlawful for the holder of a shellfish certificate issued pursuant to 12
MRS 6856 to receive, buy, hold, wash, pack, tag or label shellstock in any
location other than the permanent facility for which the holder's certificate
has been issued.

Exception. Certified dealers holding a buying a station permit may
purchase shellfish from licensed harvesters at locations other than the
permanent facility for which the holder's certification was issued. The
purchase of soft shelled clams at locations other than the permanent facility
for which the holder certification was issued requires a buying station
permit issued pursuant to §6856 sub-§2-A (D).

B. It is unlawful to buy, purchase or possess shellfish obtained from any
source other than shellstock harvested by a licensed harvester from an area
classified by the Department as approved or conditionally approved in the
open status; or a dealer holding a shellfish certificate.
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

1. Exception: The holder of a depuration certificate or a relay permit from
the Department may buy, ship, transfer or transport shellfish from an area
classified as restricted or conditionally restricted in accordance with
certificate or permit conditions.

2. Exception: The holder of an aquaculture lease or license may buy,
purchase or possess seed from growing areas in the prohibited classification
provided the seed is held in an area classified as approved or conditionally
approved in the open status for the time specified in the Model Ordinance.

C. It is unlawful to receive, handle, buy, possess, sell, ship or transport
shellfish unless each container of shellfish bears a label or tag as required by
the Model Ordinance.

Exception: Holders of a bulk tagging permit issued by the Department may
bulk tag product.

E. It is unlawful for any person, other than the depuration certificate holder
or an authorized representative, to possess seals issued by the Department
for depuration harvesting purposes.

94.07 Shellfish Sanitation Certificates

A. Application: Any person who wants to obtain certification pursuant to
§6856 shall:

1. On an annual basis, apply to the Department on forms supplied by the
Commissioner and shall provide all information required.

2. Submit and implement an HACCP plan that is in compliance with the
Model Ordinance.

B. Authorized Activities: The shellfish sanitation certificate may
authorize its holder to conduct specific activities as follows:

1. Shucker-Packer Certificate. The holder of a shucker-packer certificate
may grow, harvest, pack, purchase, sell, store, hold, ship, or transport
shellfish, whether in shellstock or shucked form. A shucker-packer may
shuck shellfish and repack shucked shellfish obtained from other certificate
holders.

2. Shellstock Shipper Certificate. The holder of a shellstock shipper
certificate may grow, harvest, purchase, store, sell, pack, ship and transport
shellstock. A shellstock shipper certificate holder may purchase and sell
shucked shellfish obtained from a shucker- packer certificate holder, but
shall not shuck shellfish or repack shucked shellfish. A shellstock shipper
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

shall have a facility for proper storage and/or repacking of shellstock,
including a means of dry storage of shellfish, such as a walk-in cooler.

3. Shellfish Reshipper Certificate. The holder of a reshipper certificate
may sell, ship or transport shucked shellfish or shellstock packed in their
original containers, which have been purchased from certified shellfish
dealers, to other certified dealers, retailers or to final consumers. A
reshipper shall not shuck, repack, hold or store shucked shellfish or
shellstock for sale, shipment or transport. A reshipper may not harvest
shellfish or buy from harvesters.

4. Depuration Certificate

(a) The holder of a depuration certificate may cleanse shellfish harvested
from approved, conditionally approved, restricted or conditionally restricted
areas, using a physical plant and processing methods which are approved by
the Commissioner and which comply with the requirements set forth in the
Model Ordinance.

(b) The holder of a depuration certificate may purchase, receive or harvest
shellstock from areas classified as approved, conditionally approved,
restricted or conditionally restricted and submit such shellstock to an
approved depuration process. The depuration processor may pack, sell, ship
or transport the depurated shellstock. A depuration processor shall have a
facility, including a means of refrigerated storage of shellfish, such as a walk
- in cooler.

C. Expiration. Certifications expire June 1st , unless an earlier expiration
date is given.

94.08 Harvest of Shellfish for Depuration

A. Each depuration plant certificate holder must submit an application to
the Department on an annual basis identifying the names and addresses of
all individuals who the certificate holder intends to use as authorized
representatives for the depuration plant in depuration harvesting
operations. The Commissioner may refuse to authorize any person that he
determines to be unsuitable to serve as an authorized representative, taking
into account, among other things, whether that person has a record of
having committed marine resource law violations.

B. The authorized representative must supervise all members of the
depuration harvesting crew and keep accurate records.

C. The authorized representative must record the names of all depuration
harvest crewmembers and their current, valid, shellfish harvester's license
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

number, during each day's operation. These records must be available for
inspection by Department personnel at all times.

D. The authorized representative must maintain daily records of the
quantity of shellfish harvested by each member of the harvest crew and the
area where the shellfish were harvested. These records must be available for
inspection by Department personnel at all times.

E. The depuration plant authorized representative must notify any
municipality with a shellfish management program 48 hours in advance of a
scheduled depuration harvest. The notification must include the date, time,
and location, as well as the contact information for the authorized
representative overseeing the harvest. The notification must be sent by
electronic mail to the town clerk, municipal shellfish warden, chair of the
shellfish committee, the Marine Patrol Lieutenant for the Division in which
the harvest will occur, and DMRPublicHealthDiv@maine.gov. Any change in
schedule will be disseminated through the same process and by other means
to provide effective notice as soon as possible.

F. The depuration plant authorized representative must call the appropriate
Maine State Police communications center to notify the local marine patrol
officer of the area to be harvested at least 24 hours prior to actual
harvesting.

G. Harvesting in restricted or conditionally restricted areas for depuration
purposes may be undertaken only during daylight hours.

H. The area within which the depuration harvesting will occur must be
clearly demarcated with orange flags.

I. During depuration harvesting activities, all harvest crew diggers must
remain in the same area, close enough for immediate supervision of all
diggers at all times by the authorized representative.

J. Each member of a depuration harvesting crew must hold, and possess on
his person, a current, valid commercial shellfish license, at all times during
depuration harvest activities.

94.09 Transportation and Delivery of Shellfish for Depuration

A. All shellfish harvested from depuration areas must be placed into an
approved vehicle and the vehicle must be sealed immediately. Unless
otherwise authorized by the Department, all shellfish harvested must be
transported directly to the depuration plant immediately after digging
operations are completed.
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

B. The vehicles must be sealed with state seals. The authorized
representative or the vehicle driver must record the seal number(s) on the
daily harvest record.

C. The authorized representative must maintain harvest records and must
record the number of the seal on the vehicle and the time shellfish were
placed in the vehicle. The plant manager must also maintain records of
shellfish lots, listing each lot by seal number and listing the time the lot
arrived at the plant and the time the seal was removed from the vehicle at
the plant.

D. The vehicle used must conform to the requirements set forth in the Model
Ordinance.

94.10 State Seals

The Department will issue state seals for depuration harvesting purposes
only to a depuration certificate holder. Unused seals must be submitted to
the Department of Marine Resources upon cancellation or suspension of a
shellfish certificate, or revocation or suspension of a certification to
depurate.

94.11 Permits

A. Bulk Tagging of Shellstock Permit

1. A person may not handle, ship, transport, or process shellfish in bulk
without a current bulk tagging permit issued by the Department.

2. To obtain a bulk tagging permit, a person must apply on an annual basis
to the Department on forms supplied by the Commissioner and must
provide all information required.

3. When receiving bulk tagged shellfish, the certified dealer must have a
Bulk Tagging Plan approved by the Department.

4. A dealer receiving bulk tagged shellstock must have an intermediate
processing plan approved by the Department.

5. Bulk Tagging permits expire June 1st unless an earlier expiration date is
given.

B. Wet Storage in Artificial Bodies of Water or in Natural Bodies
of Water (Onshore or Offshore) Permits
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

1. A person may not wet store shellfish without a current wet storage permit
issued by the Department.

2. To obtain a wet storage permit, a person must apply to the Department on
an annual basis on forms supplied by the Commissioner and must provide
all information required. A permit is required for each wet storage site or
operation.

3. Prior to commencing construction, all plans for construction or
remodeling of onshore wet storage facilities or operations shall be reviewed
and authorized by the Department.

4. Wet storage permits expire August 1st unless an earlier expiration date is
given.

C. Buying Station Permit

1. A person may not operate a buying station without a current buying
station permit issued by the Department.

2. To obtain buying station permit, a person must apply to the Department
on an annual basis on forms supplied by the Commissioner and must
provide all information required. A permit is required for each buying
station operation.

3. Compliance

(a) The truck used as a buying station must be leased, owned or rented by
the certified dealer and licensed with the appropriate supplemental license
for that truck in accordance with 12 M.R.S. §6851.

(b) All shellstock purchased at the buying station must be transported by the
certified dealer to the permanent facility for which that holder's certification
was issued.

(c) None of the following activities may occur on or in connection with a
buying station: washing of shellstock, packing, tagging, distribution to any
person or entity other than the certified dealer's facility.

(d) The HACCP plan and HACCP records must be kept with the truck. A
copy of the HACCP plan and records that apply to the buying station/truck
must be separately identified and kept with the buying station/truck.

4. Supervision
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(a) The holder of a shellfish certificate shall be responsible for the
supervision of all activities associated with the buying station permit.

(b) Supervision of all buying station activities shall be sufficient to ensure
compliance with applicable regulations and requirements of the Model
Ordinance.

(c) Lack of supervision and responsibility for the buying station permit,
including the non-production of records required to be maintained, shall be
grounds for immediate suspension of the permit.

5. Buying station permits expire June 1st unless an earlier expiration date is
given.

D. Shellfish Relay Permit

1. A person may not relay shellfish without a permit issued by the
Department.

Exception: The relay of seed as described in Chapter 2.90(3)(D)(3) will not
require a permit provided the seed is held in an area classified as approved
or conditionally approved in the open status for the time specified in the
Model Ordinance.

2. To obtain a permit to relay shellfish, a person must apply to the
Department on forms supplied by the Commissioner and must provide all
information required.

3. Relay permit applications will be reviewed and issued based on the
applicant's ability to meet the criteria for safe relay operations.

4. The permit may be conditioned at the discretion of the Department.

94.12 Embargo Procedure for Shellfish

A. In the event that the Commissioner or his agent determines that shellfish
should be embargoed, whether for violation of any requirement of the Model
Ordinance or for any other reason set forth in 12 M.R.S. §6856(6), the
shellfish shall be identified and shall not be sold, shipped, transported,
moved or otherwise altered by any person, without the express permission
of the Commissioner or his agent.

B. Every single container or lot of shellfish subjected to embargo will be
clearly identified. The Commissioner shall retain a copy of all current
embargo orders or destruct orders, which includes the amount, species,
container or lot description, name and address of the shellfish owner and
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

the reason for embargo. A copy of such orders containing this information
shall be given to the owner of the embargoed shellfish.

C. It shall be unlawful to pack shellfish, whether shucked or in shellstock
form into mislabeled containers, or to possess mislabeled shellfish. Shellfish
shall be considered mislabeled if the label is absent, bears inaccurate
information, or is missing information concerning the identity of the packer,
shipper, distributor, the area name, the date of harvest, the date of packing
or the type and quantity of shellfish in the container.

D. Shellfish that are mislabeled shall be grounds for immediate embargo,
condemnation and destruction as being of unsound or unknown quality, and
therefore, unsafe.

E. When shellfish samples indicate that those shellfish contain toxin levels
exceeding those specified in the Model Ordinance, or the shellfish are
suspected of being contaminated or of unsound quality or deleterious to the
public health, the Commissioner shall embargo the contaminated shellfish;
as well as any other shellfish which are likely to be contaminated in the same
vehicle or facility. The Commissioner shall condemn and order destruction
of such shellfish in accordance with the embargo authority granted to the
Commissioner of Marine Resources in 12 M.R.S. §6856(6).

94.13 Suspension, Revocation or Nonrenewal of Licenses,
Permits or Certification

If the Commissioner determines that an applicant for renewal of a shellfish
license, permit, or certificate is not currently in compliance with shellfish
sanitation regulations, failed to report, or has failed to comply with shellfish
sanitation regulations during the previous license period, the Commissioner
may, in addition to any remedy available, including but not limited to
suspension or revocation of the license, permit, or certificate in accordance
with the procedures established under the marine resources' laws, refuse
renewal of the license, permit, or certificate in accordance with the following
procedures:

A. The Commissioner shall advise the applicant for renewal by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the refusal and the grounds for this refusal.

B. The Commissioner shall advise the applicant for renewal that the
applicant has a right to request that an adjudicatory hearing be held before
the Department in conformity with 5 M.R.S.A., Chapter 375 subchapter IV.
The Commissioner shall advise the applicant that the hearing must be
requested in writing and that the written request must be received by the
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 94 Sanitary Control of Molluscan Shellfish
 Shellfish Closures: refer to the Department of Marine Resources
             site. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Department no later than 10 days of receipt by the applicant of the notice, by
certified mail, of refusal to renew the shellfish license, permit or certificate.

C. If an adjudicatory hearing is requested, the Commissioner shall schedule
a hearing within 10 days of the Department's receipt of the written request
for hearing, unless a longer period is mutually agreed to in writing.

D. Notice of the hearing date, time and location shall be given immediately
to the applicant.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY:

12 MRS §§ 6171-A, 6856

EFFECTIVE DATE:

August 21, 2018 - filing 2018-158

AMENDED:

November 13, 2019 - Section 94.02(B), filing 2019-202
