13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


13-188 DEPARTMENT OF MARINE RESOURCES

Chapter 115: VIBRIO PARAHAEMOLYTICUS CONTROL PLAN

TITLE INDEX

115.01 Compliance

115.02 Control Months and Locations

115.03 Definitions

115.04 General Requirements

115.05 Harvest Restrictions during Control Months

115.06 Additional Harvest Restrictions during Control Months for 80° F and
above Air Temperatures

115.07 Noncompliance

115.08 Reporting of Violations

115.09 Effective Date

115.01 Compliance

The Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan (the "Vibrio Control Plan" or the
"Control Plan") applies specifically to American and European Oysters
(Crassostrea virginica and Ostrea edulis) and Hard Clams (Mercenaria
mercenaria) harvested from the Damariscotta River, the Sheepscot River,
and the New Meadows River. The Control Plan provides additional and
more rigorous controls than those imposed by DMR Rules Chapters 9 and
22 to the handling of American and European Oysters and Hard Clams in
the area described in Section 115.02. Insofar as the Control Plan time and
temperature requirements exceed those imposed by existing rules or are in
addition to those imposed by existing rules, the relevant provisions of the
Control Plan shall supersede the provisions of Chapters 9 and 22.

The Control Plan shall be complied with during the harvesting and handling
of the above-described species, as conducted by harvesters, certified
shellstock dealers, certified shellfish establishments (sometimes referred to
as shellfish facilities or plants), shucker-packers, shellstock shippers and
receivers, reshippers, depuration processors, enhanced retail seafood license
holders and all others involved in the processes described in Chapters 9 and
22.
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


115.02 Control Months and Locations

The Vibrio Control Plan is in effect from May 1st through October 31st ,
inclusive, in all parts of the Damariscotta River north of a line beginning at
Montgomery Point, Boothbay and running southeast to Jones Point, South
Bristol, in all parts of the Sheepscot River north of Route 1, and in all parts
of the New Meadows River north of Bath/State Rd in Brunswick and West
Bath. A mandatory harvest/purchase plan must be submitted annually by
March 1 in accordance with section 115.04 (F).

115.03 Definitions

"Adequately iced" means that the amount and application of ice is
sufficient to ensure that immediate cooling begins and continues for all
shellstock in a container. If ice slurry is used and the shellstock are
submerged, the presence of ice in the slurry indicates adequate icing.
Potable water must be used for the production of ice used for cooling of
shellstock.

"Control months" means May 1st through October 31st , inclusive

"Harvest" means the act of removing shellstock from growing area waters
and its placement on or in a manmade conveyance or other means of
transport or transfer. This does not include the placement of shellstock in
aquaculture gear designed to grow or enhance shellstock as part of
husbandry practices.

"Husbandry" means the production, development, or improvement of a
marine organism.

"Mechanical Refrigeration" means storage in a container or conveyance
that is approved by the Maine Department of Marine Resources (DMR) and
capable of cooling to, and maintaining, an ambient temperature of 45°F or
less.

"Potable water" means a water supply which meets the requirements of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, as administered by the EPA and which meets
the requirements of DMR Chapters 15-20.

"Resubmerge" means, and is strictly limited to, reintroduction of shell
stock into approved waters following the removal of shellstock from
approved waters. This is separate and distinct from "wet storage" which is a
certified dealer activity. Resubmergence shall be conducted only by an
aquaculture lease holder or permit holder.
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


"Shading" means to shelter by intercepting the direct rays of the sun to
protect the shellstock from heat. Shading may be accomplished by any
means that effectively protects the harvested shellstock from direct sunlight
and prevents excessive heat build-up in the shaded area. Materials used for
shading should not be in direct contact with the shellstock unless they are
food grade surfaces (e.g. no seaweed or wet tarps applied directly to
shellstock).

"Temperature control" means the use of ice or mechanical refrigeration,
which is capable of lowering the temperature of the shellstock and
maintaining it at an internal temperature of 50°F or less.

"Time of harvest" for the purpose of temperature control begins once the
first shellstock is no longer submerged. For example, the time intertidal
shellstock are first exposed to the air as the tide recedes or the time when a
drag is brought onboard a vessel with shellstock from a subtidal resource.

"Vp" and "Vibrio" refer to Vibrio parahaemolyticus

115.04 General Requirements

A. Deterioration and Decomposition. Harvesters shall not allow
shellstock to deteriorate or decompose from exposure to high ambient air
temperatures and shall deliver shellstock to a certified shellfish dealer before
such deterioration or decomposition occurs.

Certified shellfish dealers shall not allow shellstock to deteriorate or
decompose from exposure to high ambient air temperatures and shall
deliver shellstock to a certified shellfish dealer or retail customer before such
deterioration or decomposition occurs.

B. Sales from Home Prohibited. Notwithstanding the provisions of 12
MRS §6601(2), during the control months it is unlawful for harvesters to sell
from their homes oysters and hard clams that have been taken from the
Damariscotta River, the Sheepscot River, and the New Meadows River.

C. Recreational Harvest Prohibited. It is unlawful to engage in the
recreational harvest of oysters and hard clams harvested from the
Damariscotta River, the Sheepscot River, and the New Meadows River
during the control months. Provided, however, that the prohibition against
recreational harvest shall not apply to those holding a Limited Purpose
Aquaculture license for shellfish taken from their license site.

D. Mandatory Training. All harvesters and certified shellfish dealers who
take oysters and/or hard clams from the Damariscotta River, the Sheepscot
River, and the New Meadows River or who purchase oysters and/or hard
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


clams from harvesters that were taken from the Damariscotta River, the
Sheepscot River, and the New Meadows River shall participate in annual,
mandatory training provided by the DMR. Any harvester or dealer whose
product is implicated in an epidemiologically linked case of Vibrio illness
shall take a refresher training provided by DMR.

E. Mandatory Ambient Air Temperature Records. All harvesters who
take oysters and/or hard clams from the Damariscotta River and the
Sheepscot River shall use one of two methods to record ambient air
temperature: a continuous ambient air temperature data recorder with a
record on the harvester's temperature collection data sheet of the maximum
air temperature during the time of harvest; or data collected from a DMR-
designated weather station with a record of the maximum air temperature
during the time of harvest. Any harvester or dealer whose product is
implicated in an epidemiologically linked case of Vp shall provide their
continuous ambient air temperature data recorder to DMR if applicable,
otherwise the maximum recorded air temperature from the DMR designated
weather station will be used.

F. Mandatory Vp Harvest Plan By March 1. All harvesters and certified
shellfish dealers who take oysters and/or hard clams, buy or wet store
oysters and/or hard clams from the Damariscotta River, the Sheepscot
River, and the New Meadows River shall submit to DMR a Vp
harvest/purchase plan. This plan must be submitted on or before March 1st
annually in order to be able to operate during the control months. The
harvest/purchase plan must be reviewed, amended if necessary, signed and
dated by the harvester or shellfish dealer before submission to DMR. The
DMR will approve or deny the plan within 30 days and notify the applicant
in writing of their decision. If the plan is denied, the applicant will have an
opportunity to correct the deficiencies. Harvesters and shellfish dealers may
not harvest, buy or wet store oysters or hard clams during the control
months without a DMR approved harvest/purchase plan. The
harvest/purchase plan must include;

(1) For Harvesters

a. Harvest process from time of harvest to delivery to a certified shellfish
dealer.

b. Temperature collection including recording the maximum air
temperature during the harvest activities. An example data sheet should be
included with the plan.

c. Cooling processes such as resubmergence procedures, shading, wetting,
and icing.
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


d. Product handling and data recording including documentation of
temperature history and resubmergence times. Details on how lots are
identified and kept separate depending on their exposure history must be
included. An example data sheet should be included with the plan.

e. Conveyance methods including how shellstock are held and transported
from time of harvest to point of sale, resubmergence or wet storage.

(2) For Dealers

a. Receiving process including documentation of maximum air temperature
during harvest, time of harvest, verification of harvesters' training and
harvest plan requirements and time of delivery.

b. Temperature control measures and documentation that ensures product
reaches 50°F internal temperature within ten hours of receiving product.

c. Provisions for maintaining and continuing cooling that was initiated by
the harvester.

115.05 Harvest Restrictions During Control Months

A. For the Damariscotta River and the Sheepscot River

(1) The temperature shall be determined at the time of harvest using a
continuous ambient air temperature data recorder or data from a DMR-
designated weather station and recorded on the temperature collection data
sheet.

(2) All oysters and hard clams shall be transferred to a certified shellfish
dealer within five (5) hours of the time of harvest and put into temperature
control.

(3) All oysters and hard clams shall be subject to shading immediately after
harvest.

(4) All oysters and hard clams that are harvested and exposed to ambient
temperatures for more than five (5) hours but less than twelve (12) hours
must be resubmerged or wet stored by a certified shellfish dealer for no less
than 24 hours.

(5) All oysters that are harvested and exposed to ambient temperatures for
twelve (12) hours or more must be resubmerged or wet stored for no less
than seven (7) days or 168 hours.

B. For the New Meadows River
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) All oysters and hard clams shall be subject to shading immediately after
harvest.

(2) All oysters and hard clams shall be adequately iced onboard immediately
after harvest and maintained on ice until delivery to a certified dealer.

115.06 Additional Harvest Restrictions During Control Months
for 80° F and above Air Temperatures for the Damariscotta River
and the Sheepscot River

The temperature shall be determined at the time of harvest using a
continuous ambient air temperature data recorder or data from a DMR-
designated weather station and recorded on the temperature collection data
sheet.

All oysters and hard clams shall be transferred to a certified shellfish dealer
within two (2) hours of the time of harvest and put into temperature control.

All oysters and hard clams shall be subject to shading immediately after
harvest.

All oysters and hard clams that are harvested and exposed to ambient
temperatures for more than two (2) hours but less than twelve (12) hours
must be resubmerged or wet stored by a certified shellfish dealer for no less
than twenty-four (24) hours.

All oysters that are harvested and exposed to ambient temperatures for
twelve (12) hours or more must be resubmerged or wet stored for no less
than seven (7) days or 168 hours.

115.07 Noncompliance

Shellstock received by a certified dealer without time of harvest recorded on
the harvest tag shall be resubmerged in an approved wet storage system for
seven (7) days or 168 hours or destroyed.

115.08 Reporting of Violations

Harvesters and certified shellfish dealers are required to report observed
violations of the Vibrio Control Plan immediately to Marine Patrol.

115.09 Effective Date

The effective date of Chapter 115 shall be January 1, 2016.

(APA Office Note: see below for filing history from January 1, 2016 to
date.)
13 188 Me. Code R. Ch. 115 Vibrio parahaemolyticus Control Plan
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 12 M.R.S §6171-A

EFFECTIVE DATE:

January 1, 2016 - filing 2015-189

AMENDED:

August 9, 2017 - filing 2017-123 (EMERGENCY)

November 19, 2017 - filing 2017-182

March 13, 2019 - filing 2019-051
