Waterborne Zoonoses

Please go to the Table of Contents page to access the entire publication.
 World Health Organization titles with IWA Publishing
Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health edited by Lorna Fewtrell and Jamie Bartram. (2001)


                            WHO Drinking Water Quality Series
Assessing Microbial Safety of Drinking Water: Improving Approaches And Methods edited by
Al Dufour, Mario Snozzi, Wolfgang Koster, Jamie Bartram, Elettra Ronchi and Lorna Fewtrell. (2003)

Water Treatment and Pathogen Control: Process Efficiency in Achieving Safe Drinking Water by
Mark W LeChevallier and Kwok-Keung Au. (2004)

Safe Piped Water: Managing Microbial Water Quality in Piped Distribution Systems by Richard
Ainsworth. (2004)

Forthcoming
Fluoride in Drinking Water edited by K. Bailey, J. Chilton, E. Dahi, M. Lennon, P. Jackson
and J. Fawell.

Arsenic in Drinking Water by WHO/World Bank/UNICEF as a cooperative effort of a series
of UN agencies.

           WHO Emerging Issues in Water & Infectious Disease Series
Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety: The Significance of HPCs for Water Quality
and Human Health edited by J. Bartram, J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. (2003)

Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health Consequences, Monitoring and
Management edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour and J. Cotruvo. (2004)

Waterborne Zoonoses: Identification, Causes and Control edited by J.A. Cotruvo, A. Dufour, G. Rees,
J. Bartram, R. Carr, D.O. Cliver, G.F. Craun, R. Fayer, and V.P.J. Gannon. (2004)

Forthcoming
Water Recreation and Disease: An Expert Review of the Plausibility of Associated Infections,
their Acute Effects, Sequelae and Mortality edited by K. Pond.



    For further details contact: Portland Customer Services, Commerce Way, Colchester, Essex, CO2 8HP, UK.
     Tel: +44 (0) 1206 796351; Fax: +44 (0) 1206 799331; Email: sales@portland-services.com; or order online at:
                                     www.iwapublishing.com
Waterborne Zoonoses
Identification, Causes, and Control



Edited by
J.A. Cotruvo, A. Dufour, G. Rees, J. Bartram,
R. Carr, D.O. Cliver, G.F. Craun, R. Fayer and
V.P.J. Gannon




World Health Organization
Published on behalf of the World Health Organization by
IWA Publishing, Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London SW1H 0QS, UK
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7654 5500; Fax: +44 (0) 20 7654 5555; Email: publications@iwap.co.uk
www.iwapublishing.com

First published 2004
© World Health Organization (WHO) 2004
Printed by TJ International (Ltd), Padstow, Cornwall, UK
Index prepared by Indexing Specialists (UK) Ltd, Hove, East Sussex, UK.


Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under the UK
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1998), no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or
by any means, without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, or, in the case of photographic reproduction, in
accordance with the terms of licences issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency in the UK, or in accordance with the terms of
licenses issued by the appropriate reproduction rights organization outside the UK. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside
the terms stated here should be sent to IWA Publishing at the address printed above. The publisher makes no representation,
express or implied, with regard to the accuracy of the information contained in this book and cannot accept any legal
responsibility or liability for errors or omissions that may be made.

Disclaimer
The opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the International
Water Association, USEPA or the World Health Organization. IWA, USEPA, WHO and the editors will not accept responsibility for any
loss or damage suffered by any person acting or refraining from acting upon any material contained in this publication.
      In addition, the mention of specific manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended in preference to
others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by
initial capital letters.
      The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which
there may not yet be full agreement.

British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
      Waterborne zoonoses : identification, causes, and control / edited by
       J. A. Cotruvo ... [et al.].
       (Emerging issues in water and infectious diseases series)
       1.Water microbiology 2.Water - parasitology 3.Zoonoses - etiology
       4.Disease reservoirs 5.Emerging diseases - etiology I.Cotruvo, Joseph A.
             ISBN 92 4 156273 0                               (LC/NLM classification: QW 80)
             ISSN 1728-2160
ISBN 1 84339 058 2 (IWA Publishing)
Please click on the different sections for access to the PDF files.




Contents




Preface                                                                       ix
Acknowledgements                                                             xii
List of acronyms and abbreviations                                           xv

SECTION I: EXPERT CONSENSUS                                                   1

Chapter 1: Expert consensus                                                   3
Expert Meeting Group Report

SECTION II: AN INTRODUCTION TO EMERGING WATERBORNE
ZOONOSES AND GENERAL CONTROL PRINCIPLES            17
J. Bartram and R. Carr

Chapter 2: Emerging zoonotic diseases and water                              19
C. Bolin, C. Brown and J. Rose

Chapter 3: What are the criteria for determining whether a disease is zoonotic
and water related?                                                            27
C.L. Moe

                                       [v]
vi                            Waterborne Zoonoses

Chapter 4: Impacts of anthropogenic and environmental factors on the
distribution of zoonoses                                                       46
F. Dangendorf

Chapter 5: The control envelope and risk management                            66
R. Carr and J. Bartram

SECTION III: WATER-RELATED ZOONOSIS DISEASE IMPACTS —
GEOGRAPHICAL PREVALENCE                               91
A. Dufour

Chapter 6: Tropical organisms in Asia/Africa/South America                     93
K. Suresh and H.V. Smith

Chapter 7: Incidence of the major zoonotic diseases transmitted by water in
Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean                                    113
R. Ramírez-Porras and J. Williams

Chapter 8: Waterborne outbreaks caused by zoonotic pathogens in the USA       120
G.F. Craun, R.L. Calderon and M.F. Craun

Chapter 9: Symptoms, treatments, and health consequences of waterborne
zoonotic diseases                                                      136
S. Kanarat

SECTION IV: EPIDEMIOLOGICAL DATA, CASE-STUDIES
AND OUTBREAKS                                                                 151
G.F. Craun

Chapter 10: Epidemiological studies and surveillance                          154
G.F. Craun, D.G. Till and G. McBride

Chapter 11: Zoonoses in Scotland — food, water, or contact?                   167
W.J. Reilly and L.M. Browning

Chapter 12: Potential public health risk of Campylobacter and other
zoonotic waterborne infections in New Zealand                                 191
D.G. Till and G.B. McBride
                                   Contents                         vii

SECTION V: CATEGORIES OF WATERBORNE
DISEASE ORGANISMS                                                  209
D.O. Cliver and R. Fayer

Chapter 13: Verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli and other
diarrhoeagenic E. coli                                             213
K. Mølbak and F. Scheutz

Chapter 14: Salmonella and other enteric organisms                 228
D. Lightfoot

Chapter 15: Prospects of waterborne viral zoonoses                 242
D.O. Cliver and C.L. Moe

Chapter 16: Waterborne zoonotic protozoa                           255
R. Fayer

Chapter 17: Cyclosporiasis                                         283
J.H. Cross and J.B. Sherchand

Chapter 18: Major helminth zoonoses in water                       291
T. Endo and Y. Morishima

Chapter 19: Human fascioliasis                                     305
S. Mas-Coma

Chapter 20: Leptospirosis and other potential zoonoses in water    323
C. Bolin, C. Brown and J. Rose

SECTION VI: ANALYSIS OF ZOONOTIC MICROORGANISMS                    335
A. Dufour and D. Till

Chapter 21: Managing risk of waterborne zoonotic disease through
water quality surveillance                                         338
D. Till, K. Field and A. Dufour

Chapter 22: Faecal source identification                           349
K.G. Field

Chapter 23: Rapid methods for the detection and enumeration of
microorganisms in water                                            367
D.Y.C. Fung
viii                        Waterborne Zoonoses

SECTION VII: PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF
WATERBORNE ZOONOSES                                                      377
V.P.J. Gannon

Chapter 24: Control of zoonotic waterborne pathogens in animal reservoirs 380
V.P.J. Gannon

Chapter 25: Control of zoonotic pathogens in animal wastes               409
V.P.J. Gannon, F. Humenik, M. Rice, J.L. Cicmanec, J.E. Smith Jr
and R. Carr

Chapter 26: Control of zoonotic diseases in drinking-water               426
J.L. Cicmanec, J.E. Smith Jr and R. Carr

SECTION VIII: RISK ASSESSMENT AND REGULATION                             437
J.A. Cotruvo

Chapter 27: A regulatory perspective on zoonotic pathogens in water      439
S.A. Schaub

Chapter 28: The Stockholm framework for guidelines for microbial
contaminants in drinking-water                                           452
R. Carr and J. Bartram

Chapter 29: Quantitative microbial risk assessment issues                460
G.B. McBride

SECTION IX: FUTURE EMERGING WATERBORNE ZOONOSES                          471

Chapter 30: Waterborne zoonoses: Emerging pathogens and emerging
patterns of infection                                                    472
V.P.J. Gannon, C. Bolin and C.L. Moe

INDEX                                                                    485
Preface




Investigating important emerging issues in water and infectious disease and
communicating discoveries create challenges, which are addressed by an
initiative being undertaken by the World Health Organization (WHO) Water
Sanitation and Health Unit, the US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA)
Office of Research and Development, and other collaborators. The initiative
seeks to accelerate the identification of actual and perceived issues, to bring
together information and knowledge in critical areas, and to disseminate
information to policy-makers and practitioners in a timely fashion. This
initiative has resulted in the publication of several cutting-edge documents that
critically analyse emerging issues in water and infectious disease and present
balanced assessments of how these will impact disease transmission through
water with emphasis on management options for preventing and controlling
waterborne disease.
    Other issues dealt with in the Emerging Issues in Water and Infectious
Disease initiative include:




                                        [ix]
x                            Waterborne Zoonoses

•   heterotrophic plate counts and drinking-water safety;
•   pathogenic mycobacteria in water;
•   the H2S method for the detection of faecal contamination of drinking-water;
•   water recreation and disease;
•   respiratory transmission of faecally excreted viruses; and
•   toxic cyanobacteria in water.

   This publication was developed from the workshop on “Zoonosis and
Waterborne Disease,” held in Annapolis, Maryland, USA, on 2–4 September
2003. The workshop was sponsored by the WHO units dealing with Water,
Sanitation and Health and with Strategy Development and Monitoring of
Zoonoses, Foodborne Disease and Kinetoplastidae, working with US EPA’s
Office of Research and Development and Office of Ground Water and Drinking
Water. Twenty-nine experts from 14 countries and diverse disciplines, including
sanitary and veterinary microbiology, animal health, agriculture, animal waste
management, public health, water epidemiology, medicine, sanitary engineering,
food safety, and regulatory policy, attended the workshop. They examined the
roles of zoonoses in current and future waterborne disease and prepared the
chapters published here.
   Participants at the workshop were asked to:

•   review current waterborne zoonotic disease threats;
•   identify new disease candidates based on disease agent characteristics; and
•   evaluate current control strategies to identify agents that might fall outside
    of the current control envelope.

    The workshop participants reviewed information on zoonotic organisms
linked to waterborne diseases in humans and focused on the organism
characteristics, human activities, and environmental conditions that could lead
to future concerns from evolving or emerging organisms. Animal vector factors
discussed included feral/wild animals, domestic animals, intensive grazing,
feedlots, abattoirs, and other elements. Emergence related to translocation of
microorganisms resulting from human and animal movement, food production,
irrigation, food handling, distribution from distant areas, climate change, and
other appropriate contributing factors was discussed.
    This publication was developed from technical inputs to the workshop,
workshop deliberations and revisions to the technical materials based on the
suggestions of expert technical reviewers.
    The goal of this publication is to provide guidance to agencies concerned
with human and animal health and water and wastewater service providers
worldwide to anticipate potential future waterborne zoonotic disease problems
                                     Preface                                    xi

and to determine whether current practices will be protective or whether new
approaches need to be developed or deployed to protect health. This publication
presents information on how zoonotic pathogens can be best managed at the
source (i.e., through animal management practices, treatment of animal wastes,
runoff management); through water treatment (wastewater and drinking-water);
or through a combination of multiple barriers.
   We hope that this publication provides useful information in describing the
significance of zoonotic microorganisms as threats to the quality of ambient water
and drinking-water and to public health throughout the world. We hope that this
will facilitate the development of cross-sectoral initiatives to manage current
health threats and to anticipate and manage health threats from emerging
waterborne zoonotic pathogens.
Acknowledgements




The World Health Organization (WHO) wishes to express its appreciation to all
those whose efforts made the production of this book possible.
   We acknowledge and appreciate the exceptional efforts of all of the workshop
participants, authors who contributed to the development of individual chapters in
this book, and expert reviewers as listed below:

   Jamie Bartram, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
   Carole Bolin, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
   Peter Braam, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
   Corrie Brown, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA
   Lynda M. Browning, Scottish Centre for Infection and Environmental Health,
      Glasgow, Scotland
   Rebecca L. Calderon, Office of Research and Development, US Environmental
      Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA
   Richard Carr, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
   John Cicmanec, Office of Research and Development, US Environmental
      Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA

                                        [xii]
                            Acknowledgements                                  xiii

Dean O. Cliver, Food Safety Laboratory and WHO Collaborating Centre for
    Food Virology, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California,
    Davis, CA, USA
Joseph Cotruvo, Joseph Cotruvo & Associates, Washington, DC, USA
Gunther Craun, G.F. Craun and Associates, Staunton, VA, USA
Michael F. Craun, G.F. Craun and Associates, Staunton, VA, USA
John Cross, Division of Tropical Public Health, Department of Preventive Medicine
    and Biometrics, Uniformed Services University, Bethesda, MD, USA
Friederike Dangendorf, Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, University of
    Bonn, Bonn, Germany
Alfred Dufour, Office of Research and Development, US Environmental
    Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA
Andrea Ellis, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
Takuro Endo, Department of Parasitology, National Institute of Infectious
    Diseases, Tokyo, Japan
Ronald Fayer, Agricultural Research Service, US Department of Agriculture,
    Beltsville, MD, USA
Kate Field, Department of Microbiology, Oregon State University, Corvallis,
    Oregon, USA
Daniel Y.C. Fung, Department of Animal Science and Industry, Kansas State
    University, Manhattan, KS, USA
Victor P.J. Gannon, Public Health Branch, Animal Diseases Research Institute,
    Health Canada, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada
Frank Humenik, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Animal Waste
    Management Program, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA
Sasitorn Kanarat, Hygiene and Microbiology, Ministry of Agriculture, Bangkok,
    Thailand
Diane Lightfoot, Microbiological Diagnostic Unit, Public Health Laboratory,
    University of Melbourne, Victoria, Melbourne, Australia
Santiago Mas-Coma, Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University
    of Valencia, Burjassot, Valencia, Spain
Graham McBride, National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research,
    Hamilton, New Zealand
Francois-Xavier Meslin, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
Christine Moe, Department of International Health, Rollins School of Public
    Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA
Kåre Mølbak, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark
Yasuyuki Morishima, Department of Parasitology, National Institute of Infectious
    Diseases, Tokyo, Japan
Rosa Gabriella Ramίrez-Porras, Department of Veterinary Epidemiology and
    Public Health, Veterinary Faculty, Yucatan, Mexico
xiv                              Waterborne Zoonoses

      Gareth Rees, Askham-Bryan College, Askham-Bryan, York, North Yorkshire, UK
      William Reilly, Scottish Centre for Infection and Environmental Health, Glasgow,
         Scotland
      Mark Rice, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Animal Waste Management
         Program, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA
      Joan Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
      Stephen Schaub, Office of Water, Office of Science and Technology, US
         Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, USA
      Flemming Scheutz, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark
      Jeevan B. Sherchand, Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital, Kathmandu, Nepal
      Huw V. Smith, Scottish Parasite Diagnostic Laboratory, Glasgow, Scotland
      James E. Smith, Jr., Office of Research and Development, US Environmental
         Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA
      Mark Sobsey, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA
      K. Suresh, Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
         Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
      Desmond Till, Public Health Microbiologist Consultant, Wellington, New Zealand
      Jose Williams, Department of Veterinary Epidemiology and Public Health,
         Veterinary Faculty, Yucatan, Mexico

   Special thanks are due to Penny Ward, Water, Sanitation and Health Programme,
WHO, Geneva, who provided administrative support for the meeting and to the
development of this book, and Marla Sheffer of Ottawa, Canada, who edited the
final document.
   We would like to express our gratitude to the US Environmental Protection
Agency Office of Research and Development for sponsoring the initiative on
Emerging Issues in Water and Infectious Disease and providing financial
support for this workshop and publication. We would also like to thank the US
Environmental Protection Agency Office of Water for further support to this
workshop.
List of acronyms and abbreviations




A/EEC   attaching and effacing E. coli
AFLP    amplified fragment length polymorphism
AFO     animal feeding operation
AGI     acute gastrointestinal illness of unknown origin
AIDS    acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
ARCC    average rate of correct classification
ATP     adenosine triphosphate
BFP     bundle-forming pilus
BSE     bovine spongiform encephalopathy
CAFO    concentrated animal feeding operation
CDSC    Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre (England and Wales)
CFU     colony-forming unit
CI      confidence interval
CJD     Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
CUP     carbon-source utilization
CWD     chronic wasting disease
DAEC    diffuse adherent E. coli
DALY    disability-adjusted life year
                             [xv]
xvi                Waterborne Zoonoses

DBP      disinfection by-product
DEC      diarrhoeagenic E. coli
DNA      deoxyribonucleic acid
DT       definitive phage type
EAEC     enteroadherent E. coli
EAggEC   enteroaggregative E. coli
EHEC     enterohaemorrhagic E. coli
EIEC     enteroinvasive E. coli
EPA      Environmental Protection Agency (USA)
EPEC     enteropathogenic E. coli
epg      eggs per gram of faeces
ESWTR    Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (USA)
ETEC     enterotoxigenic E. coli
HACCP    hazard analysis and critical control points
HAV      hepatitis A virus
HBV      hepatitis B virus
HEV      hepatitis E virus
HIV      human immunodeficiency virus
HUS      haemolytic uraemic syndrome
ID       infective dose
ID50     median infective dose
Ig       immunoglobulin
IID      infectious intestinal disease
IPCC     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
LEE      locus of enterocyte effacement
LH-PCR   length heterogeneity polymerase chain reaction
LT       heat-labile enterotoxin
LU       livestock unit
MAP      Mycobacterium avium (ssp. paratuberculosis)
MAR      multiple antibiotic resistance
MBM      meat and bone meal
MCL      Maximum Contaminant Level (USA)
MCLG     Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (USA)
MOR      matched odds ratio
MPN      most probable number
mRNA     messenger ribonucleic acid
MST      microbiological source tracking
NASBA    nucleic acid sequence-based amplification
NPDES    National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (USA)
NTU      nephelometric turbidity unit
              List of acronyms and abbreviations                  xvii

OIE       Office International des Epizooties (World Organization for
          Animal Health)
PCR       polymerase chain reaction
PEAS      possible estuary-associated syndrome
PFGE      pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
PT        phage type
QMRA      quantitative microbial risk assessment
QRA       quantitative risk assessment
rDNA      ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid
REP-PCR   repetitive extragenic palindromic polymerase chain reaction
RFLP      restriction fragment length polymorphism
RNA       ribonucleic acid
rRNA      ribosomal ribonucleic acid
SARS      severe acute respiratory syndrome
SCCWRP    Southern California Coastal Water Research Project (USA)
SMX       sulfamethoxazole
STEC      Shiga toxin-producing E. coli
STh       heat-stable enterotoxin (human)
STp       heat-stable enterotoxin (porcine)
TMDL      total maximum daily load
TMP       trimethoprim
T-RFLP    terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism
TSE       transmissible spongiform encephalopathy
UDG       uracil-D-glycosylase
USA       United States of America
US EPA    United States Environmental Protection Agency
UV        ultraviolet
VBNC      viable but non-culturable
vCJD      variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
VTEC      verocytotoxin-producing E. coli
WHO       World Health Organization
WSP       water safety plan
YLD       years lived with a disability
YLL       years of life lost to premature death
