  HEALTH
AS PECTS OF
 PLUMBING
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
Health aspects of plumbing.
   Published jointly by World Health Organization and World Plumbing
   Council.
   1. Water supply. 2. Water treatment. 3. Waste disposal, Fluid.
   4. Sanitary engineering. 5. Guidelines. I. World Health Organization.
   II. World Plumbing Council.
   ISBN 92 4 156318 4                               (NLM classification: WA 675)
   ISBN 978 92 4 156318 5




© World Health Organization 2006
All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from WHO
Press, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel: +41 22 791
3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; email: bookorders@who.int). Requests for permission to reproduce or
translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution – should be ad-
dressed to WHO Press, at the above address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; email: permissions@who.int).
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the
expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the
legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation
of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which
there may not yet be full agreement.
The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they
are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a simi-
lar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary prod-
ucts are distinguished by initial capital letters.
All reasonable precautions have been taken by WHO to verify the information contained in this
publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind,
either express or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with
the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its
use.
Designed by minimum graphics
Printed in Switzerland
                                       CONTENTS




Contents


Preface                                                                    vii
Acknowledgements                                                           ix
Abbreviations and acronyms                                                  x
1.   Introduction                                                           1
     1.1 Ensuring water safety in production and distribution systems       2
     1.2 Removal of liquid waste                                            3
     1.3 Risk of contamination through cross-connections                    4
     1.4 Periodic inspection                                                5
2.   Basic principles of safe drinking-water supply                         6
     2.1 Water quantity                                                     6
     2.2 Water quality and safety                                           6
     2.3 Public drinking-water supplies                                     7
3.   Hazards in drinking-water supply and waste management                 10
     3.1 Microbial risks: waterborne infectious disease                    10
     3.2 Chemical risks                                                    13
     3.3 Other risks                                                       15
4.   Water safety plans in the operation and management of water systems   18
5.   The role of plumbers in risk assessment and risk management           20
     5.1 Risk recognition                                                  20
     5.2 Risk evaluation and analysis                                      21
     5.3 Risk abatement                                                    21
     5.4 Risk acceptance and risk transfer                                 22
6.   Principles of effective plumbing systems                              23
     6.1 Water supply goals                                                23
     6.2 Liquid waste disposal goals                                       25
     6.3 Plumbing goals                                                    27
7.   Codes of practice for plumbing                                        28
     7.1 A sample model code of practice                                   30
     7.2 Applications for approval to install plumbing systems             33
     7.3 Setting plumbing standards                                        34
     7.4 Quality assurance and testing                                     35
     7.5 Disinfection of new plumbing installations                        37
8.   Implementation of the plumbing code of practice                       40
     8.1 Application and approval process                                  40



                                          iii
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



     8.2   Certification of conformance                                           41
     8.3   Periodic inspection                                                    42
     8.4   Penalties and enforcement                                              42
     8.5   Financial aspects of administration of the plumbing code of practice   43
9.   Training and registration of plumbers                                        44
     9.1 Training prior to admission to the plumbing trade                        44
     9.2 Licensing and registration                                               45
     9.3 Establishing a training programme                                        45
10. Standards for materials used in plumbing systems                              46
    10.1 Standards                                                                46
    10.2 Products and materials used in plumbing                                  47
    10.3 Metallic and non-metallic materials used in pipework                     49
    10.4 General issues related to use of plastic piping                          52
    10.5 Earthenware pipes                                                        53
    10.6 Design of plumbing fixtures                                              54
    10.7 Sanitary fixtures                                                        55
    10.8 Concrete products                                                        55
11. Design of plumbing systems                                                    57
    11.1 Drinking-water supply pipes and specifications                           57
    11.2 Drainpipes                                                               58
12. Design of plumbing systems for single dwellings                               60
    12.1 General considerations                                                   60
    12.2 Domestic storage tanks                                                   61
    12.3 Domestic water closets                                                   62
    12.4 Wastewater traps                                                         63
    12.5 Drains and ventilation pipes                                             64
    12.6 Connections to the public sewer                                          66
13. Design of plumbing systems for multiple dwellings                             67
    13.1 Domestic storage tanks                                                   68
    13.2 Control valves                                                           68
    13.3 Waste systems                                                            68
14. Design of plumbing systems for multi-storey buildings                         71
    14.1 Systems for boosting water pressure                                      71
    14.2 Drainage systems                                                         73
    14.3 Hot water and other dual supply systems                                  75
    14.4 Water storage vessels                                                    77
    14.5 Labelling and colour coding of non-drinking-water supply systems         79
    14.6 Situations where there is a risk of cross-connection                     80
    14.7 Fixture unit calculations for multiple dwellings                         82
15. Design of plumbing systems for industrial and temporary applications          85
    15.1 Backflow prevention in industrial, commercial and institutional
         water systems                                                            85
    15.2 Backflow and backsiphonage                                               85
    15.3 Water system backflow protection devices                                 86



                                             iv
                                        CONTENTS



    15.4   Guidance for protective devices                                        93
    15.5   Guidance for sanitary waste systems                                    94
    15.6   Storm water drainage systems                                           95
    15.7   Temporary plumbing installations and connections                       96
16. Storm water drainage                                                           98
    16.1 Discharge into storm water channels or pipes                              98
    16.2 Combined sewers                                                           99
    16.3 Soakaways                                                                 99
    16.4 Rainwater tanks                                                          100
    16.5 Rainwater intensity and roof drainage                                    100
17. Intermediate and communal models for drinking-water supply
    and sanitation                                                                103
    17.1 Intermediate types of drinking-water supply and sanitation               103
    17.2 Household water treatment                                                105
    17.3 Communal systems for drinking-water supply and sanitation                105
18. Conservation of water in public and domestic supply systems                   107
    18.1 Special problems associated with public buildings and communal
         accommodation                                                            108
    18.2 Leakage and wastage in the public drinking-water supply system           108
    18.3 Leakage and wastage from private drinking-water supply systems           109
    18.4 Use of meters to reduce wastage and excess consumption                   109
    18.5 Minimizing systematic excessive and wasteful use of water                110
    18.6 Minimizing water usage in flushing cisterns                              111
    18.7 Minimizing water wastage in lawn and garden irrigation                   112
    18.8 Attempts to reduce water usage through intermittent supply               112
19. Wastewater use                                                                114
    19.1 Use of greywater                                                         114
    19.2 Use of wastewater                                                        115
    19.3 Management of dual water systems                                         115
    19.4 Identification of potable and non-potable drinking-water systems         116
Glossary of plumbing and other terms used in the text                             118
Bibliography                                                                      123
Contributing authors                                                              125
Index                                                                             126


Figures
Figure 15.1    Atmospheric vacuum breaker                                         86
Figure 15.2    Atmospheric vacuum breaker (normal flow and backflow conditions)   87
Figure 15.3    Double check valve assemblies                                      88
Figure 15.4    Pressure vacuum breaker                                            88
Figure 15.5    Backsiphonage illustration                                         89
Figure 15.6    Reduced pressure principle backflow preventer                      90
Figure 15.7    Shipyard backflow contamination                                    91



                                           v
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



Figure 15.8 Grease trap                                                           91
Figure 15.9 Grease interceptor                                                    92
Figure 15.10 Precast concrete sand and oil interceptor                            92

Tables
Table 2.1 Typical volumes of fluid intake (from food and water) required
           for hydration                                                           7
Table 11.1 Typical demands for various uses                                       58
Table 11.2 Minimum internal diameter of water pipes to plumbing fixtures          59
Table 11.3 Gradients to produce minimum and maximum velocities in drains          59
Table 14.1 Advantages and disadvantages of vacuum systems (versus
           gravity systems)                                                        74
Table 14.2 Comparison of installation and operation requirements of drainage
           systems                                                                74
Table 14.3 Fixture unit values for some common plumbing fixtures                  83
Table 14.4 Peak water demand of plumbing fixtures                                 84
Table 14.5 Maximum loads for horizontal fixture branches and building drains
           or sewers                                                               84
Table 16.1 Gutter slopes and roof drainage: rainfall intensity 100 mm per hour    101
Table 16.2 Roof areas drained by vertical downspouts: rainfall intensity 100 mm
           per hour                                                               102
Table 16.3 Capacities of horizontal storm drains: rainfall intensity 100 mm
           per hour                                                               102
Table 17.1 Service level descriptors of water in relation to hygiene              104
Table 19.1 Suitability for reuse of different grades of water                     115
Table 19.2 Minimum length of colour field and size of letters                     117

Case studies
Case study 1.   SARS in Hong Kong                                                  3
Case study 2.   Drinking-water supply and waste removal in Dhaka                   9
Case study 3.   Chlordane backflow or backsiphonage                               87
Case study 4.   Backsiphonage from a hose                                         88
Case study 5.   Shipyard cross-connection                                         90




                                            vi
                                         CONTENTS




Preface


The United Nations has declared 2005–2015 the International Decade for Action
“Water for Life”, setting a world agenda that focuses increased attention on
water-related issues. This initiative is of extraordinary importance in a world
where preventable diseases related to water and sanitation claim the lives of
about 3.1 million people a year, most of them children less than five years old. Of
these, about 1.6 million people die from diarrhoeal diseases associated with lack
of safe drinking-water and adequate sanitation.
   By including safe drinking-water supply and sanitation in the Millennium
Development Goals, the world community has acknowledged the importance of
their promotion as development and health interventions and has set a series of
goals and targets accordingly. Goal 7, target 10 requests the world to “halve by
2015 the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking-water
and basic sanitation”. The task is huge: in 2002, 1.1 billion people (two thirds of
them in Asia, and 42% of the population in sub-Saharan Africa) lacked access to
improved water sources. At least 2.6 billion people lacked access to improved
sanitation; over half of them live in China and India. Only 31% of rural inhabit-
ants in developing countries have access to improved sanitation, versus 73% of
urban dwellers (WHO 2004b). Achieving the Millennium Development Goal
drinking-water and sanitation target requires that 97 million additional people
gain access to drinking-water services and 138 million additional people to sani-
tation annually up to 2015.
   The United Nations Committee on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights has
issued a statement declaring access to safe drinking-water to be a human right.
The declaration reads:
     “Water is fundamental to life and health. The human right to water is indispensable
     for leading a healthy life in human dignity. It is a prerequisite to the realization of
     other human rights.”

The World Plumbing Council and the World Health Organization, working
within the spirit of those resolutions, present this document on health aspects of
plumbing noting that sustainable health, especially for children, is not possible
without access to safe drinking-water and basic sanitation facilities. This publi-
cation is dedicated to assisting in achieving the best possible plumbing levels to
ensure the highest health benefits from use of sound plumbing practices. This is



                                            vii
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



especially important at a time when only 50% of the world population has access
to piped drinking-water systems within the property and 31% has piped sanitation
facilities connected to a public sewer system. The World Health Organization
and United Nations Children’s Fund statistics on drinking-water and sanitation
indicate a sharp acceleration of efforts towards access to types of drinking-water
and sanitation facilities requiring a considerable level of plumbing. It is thus vital
that developing countries adopt or improve their plumbing practices taking into
account the need to minimize the current and future risks of epidemics and
diseases associated with poor plumbing.
   The World Health Organization and the World Plumbing Council will feel
rewarded if this document achieves its ultimate aim: to play a strategic role in
facilitating the adoption of good plumbing practices in developing countries to
ensure the health gains and well-being expected from such systems.




                                           viii
                                    CONTENTS




Acknowledgements


This book was produced through a partnership between the World Health
Organization and the World Plumbing Council. It has been edited by Professor
Charles Watson (Executive Dean of Health Sciences at Curtin University of
Technology, Perth, WA, Australia) with assistance from Mary Watson (Sydney,
NSW, Australia), Dale Courtman and Andy Watts (Institute of Plumbing and
Heating Engineering, United Kingdom), and Robert Shepherd and Gabriella
Davis (International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials,
Ontario, California, USA); and by Dr Joseph A. Cotruvo (Joseph Cotruvo &
Associates, Environmental and Public Health Consultants, Washington, D.C.,
USA). A list of other contributing authors can be viewed on page 125. Professor
H. Feroz Ahmed of Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology and
Sergio R. Mendonca and R. Rojas Vargas of the Pan American Center for
Sanitary Engineering and Environmental Sciences (CEPIS/PAHO/WHO) are
thanked for their excellent inputs. The following World Health Organization
specialists provided relevant technical inputs to the development of this docu-
ment: Robert Bos, Richard Carr, Bruce Gordon and Federico Properzi. Jamie
Bartram (World Health Organization) provided the strategic direction through-
out this process. José Hueb (World Health Organization) coordinated the
technical revision and production of the document.




                                       ix
                           HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




Abbreviations and acronyms


CDC    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (USA)
CPVC   chlorinated polyvinylchloride
HPC    heterotrophic plate count
ISO    International Organization for Standardization
PE     polyethylene
PVC    polyvinylchloride
WHO    World Health Organization
WSP    water safety plan




                                       x
                                    1. INTRODUCTION




1. Introduction



The objective of a public drinking-water system is to provide all consumers with
a continuous sufficient supply of good quality drinking-water at an affordable
price in order to ensure the health and well-being of those served. In general the
traditional goal is to develop, when feasible, a system that involves abstraction of
water from a source, treatment of the water, and storage and distribution of the
treated water through a network of pipes, referred to as mains. The mains should
pass within a reasonable distance of the private or public premises that require a
drinking-water supply. Maintaining the quality of water within these distribu-
tion mains and the delivery of sufficient quantities require continuous super-
vision by skilled staff. Establishing and maintaining a reliable water system
involves recurrent expenditures. In well-managed systems, these costs are normally
borne by the consumers in proportion to the quantity of water delivered. Leak-
age and wastage should be controlled and minimized for safety and for
economic and environmental reasons. The collection, transport, treatment and
safe disposal of wastewater is also an essential element towards protection of
public health.
   Systems of management of the mains water system and sewerage system vary
widely around the world. The waterworks and sewage disposal operating body
(or bodies) may be a local authority, a government corporation or department, or
a private company. In the great majority of cases, these bodies have direct
responsibility for the water supplied in the mains as far as the property bound-
ary of each individual user. It is the responsibility of the owner of each property,
with the help of a competent plumber, to convey the water supply from the
distribution mains into their own premises and to safely circulate it to distribu-
tion points within the buildings, and to transport liquid waste to the sewerage
system. The three roles a competent plumber must assume are:
  • to design, install and maintain drinking-water supply and waste removal
    systems;
  • to manage the health and financial risks associated with plumbing;
  • to help conserve limited supplies of safe drinking-water.
This publication describes the processes involved in the design, installation and
maintenance of effective plumbing systems. It recommends a number of plumb-
ing system design and installation specifications that have demonstrated their


                                          1
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



validity from years of experience. It also examines the microbiological, chemical,
physical and financial risks associated with plumbing, outlines the major risk
management strategies that are used in the plumbing industry and emphasizes
the importance of measures to conserve supplies of safe drinking-water.
   Good design of plumbing systems is necessary to ensure that the installations
are efficient and safe. Good design will also ensure that the installations are
appropriate for the different circumstances they serve. The design of good
plumbing services must be based on an understanding of the technical require-
ments and relevant regulatory restrictions.
   The publication is aimed at administrators, regulators and plumbers working
in areas that are served by a mains drinking-water supply or sewerage system, or
are about to install a mains drinking-water supply or sewerage system. It should
be of particular value to those working in countries or areas that are in the early
stages of introducing effective plumbing systems. While it draws attention to the
problems of drinking-water supply and waste removal in developing countries
and outlines some of the strategies currently used, it does not systematically
cover issues specific to developing countries. The World Health Organization
(WHO) has an extensive series of publications and information sheets devoted to
improving the quality of water supplies and waste removal systems in developing
countries (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/en/).

1.1 Ensuring water safety in production and distribution systems
The main strategy for ensuring the microbial and chemical quality of water is the
implementation of a water safety plan (WSP), which incorporates a series of
“multiple barriers” designed to minimize the transmission of microorganisms
and other contaminants from the source of raw water to the user’s tap (see also
chapter 4). Part of a WSP involves the regular use of tests to monitor the presence
of certain bacteria and chemicals and to validate the performance of the system
through their absence at the point of use by the consumer (see section 3.1). The
primary series of barriers includes the following:
  • protection of water sources from faecal and other contamination;
  • storage and settling to remove some microorganisms and particulates;
  • coagulation, flocculation and sedimentation to remove colloidal particles
    and microorganisms;
  • filtration for additional microorganism and particulate removal;
  • disinfection to inactivate any remaining pathogens;
  • protection from recontamination after treatment and during distribution.
The operation of the WSP and the barriers is the responsibility of the water
authority, but public health officials and physicians in community practice play
a vital watchdog role in the identification of outbreaks that may signal a
deficiency in the WSP or result from a breakdown of one of the barriers.


                                          2
                                       1. INTRODUCTION



1.2 Removal of liquid waste
The continuous supply of adequate quantities of safe drinking-water and the
prompt and safe removal of human and domestic wastes are jointly vital for
health. Human and domestic waste matter from buildings and houses that is
carried away through sewers is known as sewage, wastewater or liquid wastes.
The system of pipes for conveyance of sewage and the respective facilities for
sewage treatment are known as the sewerage system. In many cases, the sewerage
system is managed by a sanitation department or part of community government
other than the one responsible for drinking-water. The body that provides the
wastewater management service generally funds its activities by collecting fees
from its customers.
   Liquid wastes are collected through a network of sewers that constitute the
limit of responsibility of the management body. It is up to the owners of the
properties concerned to collect the wastes within the building in which they
were generated and convey them to the public sewerage system. Case study 1 is
taken from the Amoy Gardens final report issued in July 2003 by an investiga-
tion conducted in part by Health Canada and WHO (WHO 2003).

  CASE STUDY 1. SARS IN HONG KONG
  Amoy Gardens is a private residential estate providing living space to approximately
  20,000 Hong Kong residents. Around March 20, 2003, an unusual cluster of severe acute
  respiratory syndrome (SARS) cases was discovered in Block E of the estate with apartment
  units 7 and 8 mostly affected. The initial epidemiological investigation and the unusual
  high number of cases affecting these two units prompted the hypothesis that environ-
  mental factors may have been involved in the transmission of the infectious agent.

  The areas of investigation centred on the plumbing and ventilation systems. There was a
  potential of plumbing and ventilation system interaction that could have promoted the
  transmission of an infectious agent. To prevent a free flow from the plumbing system to
  the indoor environment, water traps are installed to ensure waste containment. Amoy
  Gardens has all the necessary plumbing features for such containment. The containment
  would be maintained, provided that the plumbing system is operated as per design
  intent, with all traps sealed either by a water seal or by a solid, gas tight plug. However,
  if the traps were left without water and without a plug, this would establish an open
  path for waste, in the form of sewer gas and aerosol/droplets, to enter the occupancies.
  A strong vertical distribution of infectious material was obvious in unit 7 and particularly
  in unit 8 apartments leading to the hypothesis that unprotected occupants could have
  been infected by contaminated droplets drawn from a waste pipe previously used by an
  ill person residing in a living unit above or below, who was shedding infectious material.
  A transfer of particles from the water pipe system to the occupancies was tested and
  proven possible. The floor drain traps in many apartments seemed to have not been
  primed on a regular basis and thus had lost their sealing function. Thus aerosol and



                                             3
                                   HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



  droplets generated within the plumbing system had access to the bathroom through
  the unsealed floor drains. The inside apartment testing revealed that the bathroom fan
  created a vacuum inside the bathroom when the door and window were closed. This
  is most likely the case if an occupant uses the toilet or takes a shower. Thus infectious
  material could have been sucked into the bathroom from the waste stack system and
  exposed the occupant.

  In conclusion, the environmental investigation supports an accumulation of different
  events that together could have mediated the epidemic in Block E of the Amoy Gardens
  Estate. The shedding of infectious material from several patients into the sewer system
  may have exceeded the critical mass needed to generate hazardous aerosols/droplets
  in the wastewater system. The open floor drains in combination with the overpowered
  exhaust fans of the bathrooms may have then sucked infectious material into the occu-
  pancies and in this way exposed people to infectious aerosols/droplets or contaminated
  surfaces through droplet settling.
  Source: Adapted from WHO 2003.




1.3 Risk of contamination through cross-connections
Inside many properties there are, in effect, two distinct systems of pipes, one
conveying drinking-water and the other wastewater. These pipes, internal and
external to the building, together with the fittings themselves, are the plumbing
systems of the property. The two systems of pipes pass underground to reach the
building, and they come close together at sanitary fittings and fixtures such as
water closets, sinks or baths. The proximity of the drinking-water supply and
waste disposal systems means that there is a risk that liquid waste might con-
taminate the drinking-water supply system. The minimization of this risk is one
of the prime objectives of a well-designed and properly built plumbing system.
   Effective plumbing technologies and practices ensure that when properly
applied there is no cross-connection between the drinking-water supply and the
waste removal systems. The risks of cross-connection are usually greater in pub-
lic, industrial and commercial premises, where dual water systems, circulating
pumps, toxic wastes and other factors have to be managed. There are also risks in
multi-storey buildings where booster pumps are employed to increase the mains
pressure, and in special systems used in hospitals and in dental and veterinary
surgeries. However, even standard single-family domestic buildings present
health risks to both occupants and neighbours if faulty plumbing is installed or
if plumbing is not maintained.
   The ill effects of a cross-connection may not be confined to the premises
concerned, but may be transferred to the mains supply system to which the
plumbing is connected. In these cases, the health of a whole community may be
threatened. The risks of mains contamination are greatest when the supply


                                               4
                                    1. INTRODUCTION



pressure fluctuates or the service is intermittent. Some water supplies are inter-
mittently shut off in the mistaken belief that this will reduce consumption. The
deliberate interruption of supply is regarded as a dangerous practice, to be
avoided at all costs by a well-managed water authority. However, even in a well-
managed public drinking-water supply, circumstances will arise where mains
must be shut off for cleaning, maintenance or repair, causing a lowered or nega-
tive pressure in the services connected to them. Pressure drops can also occur in
an undersized system when large amounts of water are used in firefighting in the
water system. The danger of mains contamination from pressure drops is serious
and disease outbreaks in many parts of the world have been traced to this
source.
   The advent of technology providing for the injection of fertilizer or drench
chemicals into irrigation or stock-watering systems creates another risk of
contamination in both urban and rural situations. Protection against backflow,
caused by backpressure or backsiphonage, along with the avoidance of all cross-
connections, are essential to safeguard consumer health.

1.4 Periodic inspection
Risk minimization also depends on maintenance of equipment. In the case of
large or complex systems, or where public use or the handling of food for sale is
involved, the health (or other) authority may require periodic inspection and
retesting as a condition for approval. The owner of any plumbing system,
irrespective of its size or purpose, should be obliged to identify and to promptly
repair any fault that may develop, whatever its cause.
   An essential feature of risk minimization strategies is that they are regularly
monitored and maintained. As part of its responsibility for protection of public
health and safety, the authority must make certain that plumbing systems are
assiduously maintained at the standard required in the plumbing code of practice
(see chapter 7). Ensuring ongoing compliance with the code of practice through
a process of periodic inspection of installations is costly, so appropriate priorities
need to be set.
   For systems that have the potential to pose a serious risk to public health (such
as premises where food or drink is processed, hotels and lodging houses, and
industrial premises) it may be a condition of the authority’s approval that the
plumbing system should be retested at specific intervals (such as every two
years), and that such tests should be witnessed by the inspector. The inspector
should also be satisfied that no cross-connections or other violations of the code
have occurred since the previous inspection and test. Work completed under a
system of self-certification may also be subject to periodic audit by the authority
and the ability to issue future self-certification may be withdrawn in the light of
any problems arising from the audit.



                                          5
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




2. Basic principles of safe
   drinking-water supply

Worldwide human freshwater use increased tenfold from 1900 to 2000. Fresh
water is used for domestic, recreational, irrigation, livestock support and indus-
trial purposes. The heaviest use is for irrigation, which typically accounts for
well over 60%, and industry, which accounts for a further 25%. Aquifers are
being rapidly depleted and contamination is a rising threat. There are three main
sources for increasing supply of fresh water where it is needed: reuse for multiple
purposes, desalination of seawater and brackish (salty) surface water and
groundwater, and conservation (avoiding wasteful use and water loss from
leaks). Each of these is becoming essential to meet demands in an increasing
number of circumstances.

2.1 Water quantity
It has been estimates that the use of at least 20 litres of drinking-water per capita
per day represents the minimum quantity required for drinking, food prepara-
tion and basic personal hygiene; a quantity higher than 50 litres per capita per
day should ensure basic laundry and bathing in addition to the latter uses;
quantities beyond 100 litres per capita per day would represent an optimal access
and should ensure all the previous uses plus a considerable level of comfort and
well-being (Howard & Bartram 2003). With no access to a water source within
less than a 30 minute walk to fetch water and come back, consumption is likely
to be less than the basic requirement, and hygiene will probably be inadequate. It
is important to note, however, that even when optimal supply is achieved, if the
supply is intermittent, additional risks to health occur because of the compro-
mised condition of the drinking-water supply, as well as interference with the
function of waterborne sanitation systems.
    Table 2.1 demonstrates that only a small portion of the daily water needs are
required for hydration and consumed as drinking-water. Climate and physical
activity, as well as personal factors, affect the daily hydration need.

2.2 Water quality and safety
At least 1.8 million people die every year from diarrhoeal diseases, including
cholera; 90% are children under the age of five, mostly in developing countries.
WHO estimates that 88% of diarrhoeal disease is attributed to unsafe drinking-
water supply, and inadequate sanitation and hygiene. Studies have indicated that


                                           6
                                 2. BASIC PRINCIPLES OF SAFE DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY



TABLE 2.1 TYPICAL VOLUMES OF FLUID INTAKE (FROM FOOD AND WATER) REQUIRED FOR HYDRATION
                                                    Daily fluid intake required for hydration (litres)

                                        Average           Manual labour /
Human type                             conditions        high temperature        Pregnancy               Lactation

Female adult                               2.2                   4.5                 4.8                    5.5
Male adult                                 2.9                   4.5                 NA                     NA
Child                                      1.0                   4.5                 NA                     NA
NA: not applicable.
Source: Howard & Bartram 2003.

improved drinking-water supply reduces diarrhoea morbidity by 6% to 25%,
and improved sanitation reduces it by 32%. Hygiene interventions, including
education and handwashing, can achieve up to 45% reduction of diarrhoea cases.
In the absence of a good-quality drinking-water supply use of household water
treatment, such as chlorination with a few drops of bleach at the point of use, can
reduce diarrhoea episodes by 39% (see sections 2.3.2 and 17.2) (WHO/UNICEF
2005).

2.3 Public drinking-water supplies
A drinking-water supply system consists of three major elements: source, treat-
ment and distribution to the users. Contamination can occur in any of those
segments and the prevention and mitigation of contamination are essential roles
of the water supplier, as well as assuring that the water continuously delivered to
the consumer’s entry point is safe and aesthetically acceptable. Each element in
the system has vulnerabilities to be managed. The best protection is the multiple
barrier approach, which relies upon a series of barriers from the protection of the
source water to multiple treatment processes and distribution system integrity to
ensure that potentially harmful contaminants are removed with confidence
before they reach the consumer’s tap.
   The prevention, mitigation and elimination of contamination risks are the key
responsibilities of water providers, and regulators in their oversight role. The
consuming public also has responsibilities to protect the safety of the water
within their dwellings by ensuring the integrity of their piped systems, provid-
ing quick repairs when needed and properly storing and using drawn water so as
to protect its quality and safety. In the event of usage of non-publicly distributed
water, or when the public supply is unreliable or unsafe, users can also take
measures to ensure that their water is safe to drink (see section 17.2).

2.3.1 Source water quality and protection
Ground and surface source waters are at risk of contamination from both microbes
and chemicals. Chemical contamination occurs sometimes from natural origins
(e.g. excess fluoride and arsenic). A water supplier must therefore first under-


                                                            7
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



stand the composition of its source water and the origin of potential contamina-
tion that it could encounter, taking into account seasonal factors. Unprotected
surface source waters can receive direct contaminant discharges, as well as
surface runoff potentially contaminated by human or animal sanitary wastes,
agricultural waste or chemicals (e.g. pesticides runoff and automobile oil from
streets). Washing and defecation in streams will be a major contributor to down-
stream contamination. Groundwaters are often naturally protected by soil over-
lays; however, some geology is porous and vulnerable to contamination from
surface wastes, and also from septic tanks and privies. Unprotected and poorly
designed wells and the act of drawing water from open dug wells can increase the
risk of contamination.

2.3.2 Water treatment
The water treatment process should be designed to remove or inactivate micro-
bial (bacteria, virus, protozoa), chemical (inorganic, organic) and aesthetic
(undesirable taste, odour, colour, turbidity) contaminants. The most basic filtra-
tion and disinfection technologies are usually necessary and sufficient to treat
surface source waters; disinfection is often sufficient for many groundwaters if
they are not subjected to contamination from surface activities. Some organisms
(e.g. Cryptosporidium protozoa) are especially resistant to disinfection, so source
protection (e.g. avoiding runoff from dairy activity) and efficient filtration are
necessary where they may be present. The appropriate selection, design and
operation of technologies are therefore essential to ensure successful treatment
of the specific source water being utilized.
   Chemical disinfection processes generate some disinfection by-products that
are of at least theoretical concern in some situations. However, the benefits of
disinfection far outweigh those concerns, and they should not be an excuse to
compromise the essential control of microbial pathogens that cause huge
numbers of deaths and illness where they are not managed by the water supplier.

2.3.3 Water distribution
The conventional goal is provision of safe piped water to the taps of all consum-
ers. There are other approaches in use, by necessity, including central standpipes,
protected wells and community bottled water. A leaking distribution system
increases the likelihood that even safe water leaving the source or treatment facil-
ity will become contaminated before reaching the consumer. The distribution
system must be designed, managed and maintained to present a minimal level of
leakage and be continuously under internal pipe pressure greater than the exter-
nal hydrostatic pressure. This will ensure delivery of water with reduced losses
due to leaks, and minimization of excess growth of pathogenic microorganisms.
A certain level of free residual chlorine or chloramine disinfectant will reduce



                                           8
                              2. BASIC PRINCIPLES OF SAFE DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY



the risks of recontamination within the distribution system (see also section
3.1.4). Inflows of contaminated water during distribution are major sources of
waterborne pathogens and thus waterborne disease.
    Case study 2, from an article in the Guardian Weekly, provides an example of
the drinking-water supply and sewage disposal problems faced by developing
world cities. In addition to the factors mentioned, water contamination also
occurs in the distribution system because the pipe network is old and the supply
is intermittent.

  CASE STUDY 2. DRINKING-WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE REMOVAL IN DHAKA
  Dhaka is built on a flood plain that has been filled in with rubbish and human waste.
  When the Buri Ganga River floods many areas are inundated with sewage and industrial
  pollution. In 2002, the population of Dhaka was 10 million, whereas thirty years before
  it was 250,000. One quarter of the people of Dhaka live in the most squalid slums, but
  they cannot legally be supplied with water from the city drinking-water supply. They are
  assisted by NGOs like Wateraid and Tearfund.

  The city needs 1.6 billion litres of water daily to provide for basic needs but only 1.26
  billion litres are actually supplied. Nearly all the water (97%) comes from deep under-
  ground sources and the water table is being rapidly lowered so the source is not sustain-
  able. The sewage system has a nominal capacity of 120,000 cubic meters per day but
  the main pipe is out of service. There are many illegal connections to the sewer which
  discharge industrial waste including heavy metals. This means that the sewage cannot
  be used for fertilizer or for aquaculture.

  Waterborne disease is very common and tens of thousands of children in Dhaka die
  from this cause each year. Much of the pollution that causes waterborne disease occurs
  at the household level (~70%), because water is stored in rooftop tanks which are easily
  contaminated.
  Source: Guardian Weekly (John Vidal, 11–17 April 2002).




                                                       9
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




3. Hazards in drinking-water supply
   and waste management

3.1 Microbial risks: waterborne infectious disease
From a public health point of view, the reliable supply of safe drinking-water is
vital for daily life. Unfortunately, the same water that sustains life can also be the
bearer of dangerous contaminants in the form of bacteria, viruses and
protozoans. These include bacteria such as toxigenic Escherichia coli and
Campylobacter, viruses like Norovirus and Hepatitis E, and protozoans like
Giardia and Cryptosporidium. The risk of infection and disease and the public
health burden is determined by the severity of illnesses that are caused by the
pathogens, the extent of the exposure, their infectivity, and the physical condi-
tion and susceptibility of the exposed population.

3.1.1 Microorganisms in water
Natural bodies of water such as lakes and rivers and groundwaters normally
contain nutrients; certain microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, etc.) have evolved
to take advantage of this environment. Fortunately, most of these microorgan-
isms do not cause disease in humans, that is they are not pathogenic. In addition
to microorganisms that live on nutrients in the water, still more come from
runoff from soil in the vicinity. But once again, the majority of the microorgan-
isms from soil are not harmful.
   However, it is common for sewage to be discharged into these waters, without
adequate treatment. Many microorganisms in sewage pose a real threat to health.
Wastes from domestic and wild animals can also pose a danger. Other sources
and routes of exposure may also be significant; in addition to ingestion, inhala-
tion of aerosol droplets and contact with contaminated water can also be sources
of infection (WHO 2004a).
   Humans may be infected by these pathogens by drinking contaminated
water or by eating uncooked shellfish that have concentrated harmful organ-
isms they have extracted from contaminated water. Foods that have been
irrigated with untreated sewage, fertilized with untreated excreta or processed
with contaminated water are also an indirect source of risk. Microorganisms
may seep through some soils for long distances until they reach a body of
surface water or groundwater. Leaking septic tanks and inadequate latrines
may contaminate nearby drinking-water sources. Some soils, such as sand-
stone, are effective at filtering microorganisms, but coarser and fractured soils


                                           10
                    3. HAZARDS IN DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT



may allow transport of pathogenic organisms for long distances and depths.
   A further cause of contamination of drinking-water is through the improper
storage of water in household storage tanks and cisterns, and in smaller contain-
ers after it has been drawn. This is a common source of pathogens in drinking-
water in developing countries.

3.1.2 Which microorganisms are important?
The pathogenic microorganisms from human and animal waste that are found in
contaminated drinking-water include bacteria, viruses and protozoans, and
many of the illnesses that they cause can be fatal. Some of the important water-
borne pathogenic bacteria include several salmonellae organisms such as the
typhoid bacterium, Vibrio cholerae bacillus, Shigella spp., pathogenic and
enterohaemorrhagic E. coli, and Yersinia enterocolitica. Some notable pathogenic
viruses in water include Hepatitis A and Hepatitis E virus, Norovirus, Sapovirus
and Rotavirus. Notable pathogenic protozoans in water include Giardia
intestinalis, Entamoeba histolytica (the cause of amoebiasis), and Cryptospori-
dium parvum. Some helminthes that cause disease from water contact include
Dracunculus medinensis and Schistosoma spp.

3.1.3 Estimating levels of water quality and sewage contamination
The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality focus on E. coli (preferred)
and thermotolerant coliform bacteria, which are present in large quantities in
the intestines of warm-blooded animals, as the best indicators of the sanitary
quality of water supplies. However, they alone are not necessarily sufficient
indicators for viruses and protozoa. E. coli are relatively easily disinfected, but
viruses and protozoa are usually much more resistant to chlorine and (especially)
chloramines. The latter are in fact weak disinfectants. E. coli are well known to
public health and plumbing professionals as a sign of recent contamination of
water with human or animal waste. Analysis by culture methods may require 24
to 48 hours per test. E. coli normally only survive in water for a few days, so
measuring levels of E. coli under standard conditions is a way of estimating the
level of recent human or animal faecal contamination. Total coliform bacteria
measurements are used in some countries as conservative indicators of the sani-
tary condition of the drinking-water; however, they are not direct indicators of
sanitary contamination, especially in tropical countries, where many bacteria of
no sanitary significance occur in almost all untreated supplies.

3.1.4 Microbial growth in plumbing: heterotrophs, Legionella and Pseudomonas
Heterotrophs
Microorganisms grow in drinking-water distribution systems, especially in the
absence of a residual disinfectant. Most of these are heterotrophs that require an
external source of carbon, and they grow in water, on particulates and on


                                               11
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



surfaces in contact with water as biofilms, and also on foods. They can also
include a broad spectrum of opportunistic pathogen microorganisms such as
Aeromonas, Flavobacterium, Serratia, Pseudomonas and Klebsiella, but there is
no evidence in the general public of an association of any of these organisms with
gastrointestinal infection through ingestion of drinking-water (WHO 2004a);
there may be concerns with some severely immunocompromised persons and
hospital environments (Bartram et al. 2003). They are found in all waters with-
out residual disinfectant, including bottled waters, and on carbon filters and
other treatment devices and surfaces. Most heterotrophs are not harmful to
healthy persons, but they can be a nuisance by generating tastes and odours or
discoloration of water supplies. The principal determinants of growth of hetero-
trophs are lack of disinfectant residual, warm temperature, availability of
nutrients including organic carbon, and stagnation. They are measured by
aggregate heterotrophic plate count (HPC) tests that detect a wide range of
organisms, including many bacteria and fungi. High counts are more likely to be
indicative of biofilms and lack of cleanliness in the system and availability of
nutrients. In the absence of indicators of sanitary significance (e.g. E. coli), HPC
organisms in themselves are not indicative of faecal contamination.

Legionella
Legionella are among the exceptions to harmless growth organisms in distrib-
uted water, and they are not measured by HPC tests. Legionella can grow to
significant numbers in warm waters, hot water heaters, hot tubs, hot water lines
and shower heads, and probably in the plumbing systems of large buildings, and
in cooling towers for air conditioner heat exchangers. Special precautions are
required to prevent and control Legionella in hospitals and health care facilities,
because aerosols from showers, spas and cooling systems are a route of infection
and those facilities contain high-risk populations. Legionella grow well in water
at temperatures in the range of about 25 °C to 50 °C. Preventive and remedial
controls are essential, especially in hospitals and health care facilities (Surman-
Lee 2006). The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality indicates that the
water temperature should be maintained outside the range of 25–50 °C, at which
Legionella proliferates (WHO 2004a); however, hot water temperatures above
50 °C may also present a scalding risk to young children and the elderly (see
section 3.3).

Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Pseudomonas aeruginosa microorganisms also grow in piped plumbing and
distribution systems and on devices under the conditions cited above. They can
cause a range of infections but rarely cause serious illness in healthy individuals.
They are a significant problem in hospital environments where the organism can
colonize damaged sites such as burn and surgical wounds, the respiratory tracts


                                          12
                   3. HAZARDS IN DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT



of susceptible people and physically damaged eyes, and they have caused skin
infections in hot tubs and spas. Cleaning of contact lenses with contaminated
solution can cause a type of keratitis. Ingestion of drinking-water is not an
important source of infection (WHO 2004a).

3.2 Chemical risks
Since the end of the 19th century the main health focus for drinking-water
supply has been on microbial risks. Microbial contamination remains the most
significant, imminent and large-scale manageable risk associated with drinking-
water when water is not properly managed. Chemical contamination of drink-
ing-water can result from natural or human-related contamination of surface
water or groundwater, or contamination that occurs during the treatment of
water (disinfection by-products), or delivery through mains or household water
(corrosion).
     The number of potentially harmful chemical contaminants (if present at
sufficient concentrations) identified in drinking-water in small amounts has
been increasing rapidly over the last twenty years due to the development of
analytical methods capable of detecting levels in parts per billion and parts per
trillion. These chemicals are usually present at extremely low concentrations
when detected. Water is just one source and usually not the most important
source of exposure to most of these chemicals, except for disinfection by-products.
A few of these contaminants have been shown to cause adverse effects in humans
when ingested via highly contaminated water. Some of the more common con-
taminants detected, with their mode of occurrence and health effects under some
exposure conditions, are: arsenic (natural; cancer), fluoride (natural; dental and
crippling skeletal fluorosis), lead (corrosion of lead pipe; neurological effects),
pesticides (agricultural use and spills; variable effects), nitrate and nitrite (agri-
cultural and sewage; infant deaths), radon (natural geology to indoor air and
some groundwaters; cancers), sulfates (natural; causing temporary diarrhoea to
non-residents). Arsenic, fluoride and nitrate/nitrite are probably the most
important examples that have shown demonstrable health effects from consump-
tion of contaminated water.
   Some groups, including young children and the immunocompromised, may
have higher than average risk of the effects of some chemical exposures in the
environment compared to the general population. Examples include the effect of
aluminium on dialysis patients when inadequately treated dialysis water is used;
the impact of lead poisoning on pregnant women and infants, usually as a result
of exposure to lead paint dust; and the effects of arsenic on people with compro-
mised nutritional status.
   Arsenic is widely distributed in small quantities in waters around the world.
However, thirty years ago in Bangladesh millions of shallow surface wells were
drilled to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal diseases from highly polluted


                                              13
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



surface water. Unfortunately, the groundwater from many of these shallow tube
wells was contaminated with arsenic and this was not determined before the
wells were put into service. It has been estimated that over 40 million people in
Bangladesh are exposed to potentially risky levels of arsenic in water. The WHO
guideline value for arsenic is 10 parts per billion; however, some countries use 50
parts per billion as an interim goal due the difficulty and cost of removing
arsenic from drinking-water.
    Fluoride is another natural water component that has caused serious conse-
quences when it is present in excessive amounts. At recommended values it has
beneficial effects by reducing tooth decay (guideline value is 1.5 milligrams per
litre, but national regulators should also take into account climatic conditions,
fluoride intake from other sources and total water consumed). At slightly higher
consumption levels fluoride can cause discoloration of tooth enamel, and at even
higher levels (greater than about 14 milligrams per day) serious adverse skeletal
effects occur.
    Nitrate and nitrite in excess are a particular risk to infants, causing methaemo-
globinaemia, which may result in morbidity and death from short exposures.
The WHO guidelines are 50 milligrams per litre for nitrate and 3 milligrams per
litre for nitrite, and the sum of the ratios of each to its guideline value should not
exceed 1 (WHO 2004a). Nitrate and nitrite are usually present in water con-
taminated with sewage, septic tank effluent or agricultural runoff. Combined
exposure to nitrate or nitrite and gastrointestinal disease-causing microorgan-
isms seems to cause the greatest risk of methaemoglobinaemia.

Epidemiological studies of environmental contaminants are usually driven by
concerns arising from episodes of exposure or evidence of chronic exposure.
However, attempts to understand the epidemiology of chemical contamination
of drinking-water reveal a number of complex issues that make such studies
difficult to carry out. These issues include:
  • the fact that drinking-water is seldom the principal source of exposure,
    except for arsenic and fluoride in some cases;
  • the wide variation in the amount of contamination from non-drinking-
    water sources;
  • difficulty in measuring dietary concentrations;
  • difficulty in accurately defining the duration and magnitude of human
    exposure;
  • the relative impact of other factors besides chemicals that may contribute to
    similar health risks.
A poor assessment of relative risks sometimes makes it difficult for officials to
make good public health decisions. They should rely on recognized national and
international health authorities and make use of solid background information



                                           14
                   3. HAZARDS IN DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT



such as the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality as guides for these
matters (WHO 2004a).
   Drinking-water is drawn from an environment that changes constantly as a
community develops. Therefore, it is increasingly important that there is
constant awareness of developing sources of potential contamination from
industry, waste disposal or agricultural practices, or changes in urbanization
patterns. Medical authorities, environmental epidemiologists, toxicologists,
chemists, engineers and exposure analysts need to effectively communicate and
work collaboratively to help risk managers determine which environmental
hazards are real, to help regulators make sensible and realistic standards and to
help policy-makers make the best environmental policy and water management
decisions. The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality provide compre-
hensive and up-to-date guidance to decision-makers by providing consensus
recommendations developed by international experts from all of those
disciplines.

3.3 Other risks
3.3.1 Hot water and scalding
Burns from hot tap water can result in severe injuries to young children and the
elderly. Almost all hot water burns in children occur in the bathroom. The
average temperature of hot water systems in Australia is 65 °C. Water at this
temperature can inflict a severe burn on a child in less than half a second. In
many industrialized countries, the average hot water temperature is 60 °C,
which will cause a severe burn in about five seconds.
   While parents can help reduce the risk by checking bath temperatures and by
supervising children, the obvious answer is to minimize the risk by reducing the
temperature of the water in the hot water system to below 55 °C (but not below
50 °C, which would increase Legionella risk), depending on the specifications of
the system that has been installed. An alternative is to install thermostatically
controlled mixing valves on the bath taps. Other alternative strategies to prevent
accidents with children are the installation of a child-resistant hot water tap
(with a push and turn movement similar to that used in the caps of medicine
bottles) or the provision of a childproof tap cover. Tap covers are only suitable for
certain kinds of taps.
   Whenever any maintenance or scheduled work is carried out overnight,
procedures must be in place to ensure that occupants are notified and aware of
the dangers. There have been instances when pasteurization (temporarily raising
the temperature of the hot water system above normal levels) in homes for the
aged has had fatal consequences. The Institute of Plumbing and Heating
Engineering in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
recommends maximum outlet temperatures as follows: bidet 38 °C; shower 41 °C;



                                              15
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



washbasin 41 °C; bath 44 °C; and supervised bath 46 °C (see sections 3.1.4 and
14.3.1) (IPHE 2005).
   Some plumbers have argued that reducing water temperature is not a simple
matter. The following potential disadvantages must be taken into account:
   • The cost of storage of larger quantities of lower temperature hot water may
     be higher than that of smaller quantities of hotter water.
   • The water may not be hot enough for other purposes, such as washing
     kitchen dishes.
   • Storage of tepid water may introduce a risk of bacterial growth (Legionella,
     Mycobacterium avium and Pseudomonas aeruginosa).
The ideal solution is to maintain a reservoir of relatively hot water, but to ensure
that high-temperature water cannot be accessed in shower or bath taps. This
can be done with a thermostatically controlled mixing valve at the bath or
shower.

3.3.2 Damage to buildings and land
Flowing water can exert significant force and under some circumstances this
force can result in damage to buildings and to land. Plumbers should be aware of
the potential damage to building structures that can be caused by water hammer.
Installation of water hammer arresters and antioscillation valves will reduce this
risk. Damage to foundations and other structures can be caused by uncontrolled
water and wastewater runoff.

3.3.3 Corrosion
All water is corrosive in some circumstances, but excessive corrosion is a serious
economic and potential health problem. It may lead to structural failures and
deterioration of chemical and microbiological quality, including exceedance of
guideline values for lead, copper and iron. Corrosion is partial dissolution of any
(especially metal) materials in the plumbing system. It can be caused by inter-
active water quality factors including pH, insufficient or excess alkalinity,
temperature and galvanic action. Corrective actions are sometimes complex and
may involve management of calcium, carbonate and bicarbonate, dissolved
oxygen, and especially maintaining the appropriate pH, which should usually be
in the approximate range of 7 to 8.5 to minimize corrosion.

3.3.4 Incrustation
Water containing excessive amounts of bicarbonates, carbonates or iron has a
tendency to deposit minerals on the pipe surface. These minerals are solid and
difficult to remove without mechanical cleaning, which is costly. This mineral
deposition reduces the internal volume of the pipe and thus reduces the flow



                                           16
                 3. HAZARDS IN DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT



capacity; sometimes this leads to total blockage. In addition, this irregular
surface can become a locus for biofilms and can harbour microorganisms,
shielding them from contact with disinfectant. It can also cause excessive
disinfectant demand.




                                            17
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




4. Water safety plans in the operation
   and management of water systems

The safety and performance of a system for providing drinking-water depends
upon the design, management and operation of the three principal components:
source, treatment and distribution. If contamination has occurred and it is not
controlled before it reaches the consumers’ taps, illness or even death is possible.
The system must therefore be designed to cope with all of the problems that
could occur, and proper performance of the entire system must be ensured at all
times. The most effective way to consistently ensure the safety of a drinking-
water supply is through the use of a comprehensive risk assessment and risk
management approach that encompasses all of the steps in the drinking-water
supply train from the catchment to the consumer. WHO has developed a
systematized water safety plan (WSP) approach based upon worldwide experi-
ences of success in managing drinking-water quality (WHO 2004a). The WSP
concept draws upon principles and concepts of prevention, multiple barriers and
quality management systems such as hazard assessment critical control points
(HACCP) as used in the food industry.
   A WSP has three key components guided by health-based targets (drinking-
water standards and guidelines and codes), and overseen through surveillance
of every significant aspect of the drinking-water system. The concept and
methodology can also be adapted to sewage management systems. The three
components are:
  • System assessment to determine whether the system as a whole (from
    source to consumer) can consistently deliver water that meets health-based
    targets. This includes assessment of design criteria for new systems as well
    as modifications.
  • Measures to monitor and control identified risks (and deficiencies) and
    ensure that health-based targets are met. For each control measure,
    appropriate operational monitoring should be defined and instituted that
    will rapidly detect deviations.
  • Management plans describing actions to be taken during normal opera-
    tions or incident conditions, and documenting the system assessment
    (including system upgrades and improvements), monitoring, and commu-
    nication plans and supporting programmes.




                                          18
             4. WATER SAFETY PLANS IN THE OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF WATER SYSTEMS



The primary objectives of a WSP are the minimization of contamination of
source waters, reduction or removal of contamination through appropriate
treatment processes, and prevention of contamination during processing, distri-
bution and storage. These objectives are equally applicable to and can be tailored
to large piped supplies and small community supplies, large facilities (hotels and
hospitals) and even household systems.
   The objectives are met through the systematic and documented planned
methodology for the entire life of the system. A progression of the key steps in
developing a WSP is as follows:
  • assemble and train the team to prepare the WSP;
  • document and describe the system;
  • undertake a detailed hazard assessment and risk characterization to
    identify and understand how hazards can enter the system;
  • assess the existing proposed system (including a description of the system
    and a flow diagram);
  • identify control measures – the specific means by which specific hazards
    may be controlled;
  • define monitoring of the control measures – what are the limits that define
    acceptable performance and how are these monitored;
  • establish procedures to verify that the WSP is functioning effectively and
    will meet the health-based targets;
  • develop supporting programmes, for example training, hygiene practices,
    standard operating procedures, upgrades and improvements, research and
    development;
  • develop management procedures, including corrective actions for normal
    and incident conditions;
  • establish documentation and communication procedures.
These key steps in the WSP operate in a continuous and cyclical mode by return-
ing to the documenting and system description step and repeating the process
routinely. Detailed expansions of this WSP concept can be found in the Guide-
lines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO 2004a) and in other writings including
detailed discussions of WSPs for distribution systems (Stevens et al. 2004).




                                              19
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




5. The role of plumbers in risk
   assessment and risk management

The supply of safe water and the removal of human waste are vital for health and
well-being. The main aim of plumbing systems is to collect, transport and
distribute water to individuals in a community, and to remove liquid waste.
Unfortunately, all of these beneficial processes incur risks. These risks include
contamination of water sources with bacteria, accidental cross-connection of
drinking-water supply and waste removal systems, and chemical contamination
from corrosion of pipes and other fittings. Thus, the second aim of plumbing
systems must therefore be to manage risk.
   Risk management uses a variety of different strategies. First of all, risks must
be recognized, analysed and evaluated. Then the risks are minimized by a
number of means, the most fundamental being system design and construction
or assembly using appropriate techniques and materials. A fundamental require-
ment is the use of quality assurance systems to ensure that plumbers are well
trained and that they adhere to a code of good practice. Some risks cannot by
eliminated and the resultant financial risk must be either accepted by the plumb-
er or transferred by means of insurance.
   Plumbers are trained to design, install and maintain plumbing systems. How-
ever, the work of plumbers goes beyond the provision of plumbing systems; they
must manage the risks associated with plumbing installations. They share this
risk management role with public health officials. Finally, in a world that is now
increasingly aware of the value of natural resources, plumbers and other plumb-
ing professionals play a vital role in water conservation.

5.1 Risk recognition
Risk recognition is based on a comprehensive understanding of all potential
hazards that may arise in establishing and maintaining a plumbing system. For
example, the Romans recognized the undesirability of contamination of water
from soil and human and animal waste and they built aqueduct systems to
deliver clean upland water to their cities, and sometimes used lead pipes. The
Latin word for lead (plumbum) gave rise to the common name for the plumbing
profession. It has taken almost two thousand years to recognize the risks associ-
ated with lead pipes and corrosive water, and lead use was discontinued in
drinking-water systems relatively recently. The history of lead use is an impor-
tant reminder that new technologies will often bring new and unexpected risks.


                                         20
                 5. THE ROLE OF PLUMBERS IN RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK MANAGEMENT



Constant vigilance and research are necessary to uncover these new risks as they
arise and to rapidly correct them.

5.2 Risk evaluation and analysis
Once a risk has been identified, the nature of the risk must be analysed and its
relative importance needs to be evaluated. The analysis of the risk should reveal
what causes the risk; the evaluation of the risk in its context will enable a judg-
ment to be made about what action to take. In some cases, a risk might be identi-
fied but assessed to be very low in importance and costly to eliminate. In this
case, the evaluation might lead a community to accept the risk and simply
monitor the problem. On the other hand, the evaluation of another risk might
demand urgent action to protect the community.

5.3 Risk abatement
Once a risk has been recognized and evaluated as being important, steps must be
taken to minimize the risk. Risk abatement is the main strategy for managing
risk in the domain of plumbing. Plumbing risks can be prevented and minimized
by education and training and by the adoption of quality assurance systems such
as codes of best practice. Many countries enforce these codes of best practice by
establishing laws and regulations that demand certain standards of practice. For
example, modern codes of practice prohibit the use of certain dangerous materials,
such as lead, in pipes that supply water for human use. Risk abatement
strategies are only effective if their application is assiduously maintained. Risk
abatement in plumbing requires both the community and individuals to make a
major continuing investment in time and money to prevent risks, and to mini-
mize risk once discovered.

5.4 Risk acceptance and risk transfer
Because it is impossible to identify and eliminate every possible risk, plumbers
must face the possibility that even with good standards of practice there will be
occasions when some problem with a plumbing installation will occur. In some
of these situations people may be made ill or injured and the plumber may be
held responsible. There are three possible ways to deal with these kinds of
circumstances. The first and normally the best ethical approach is to accept
responsibility and rectify the problem. The second is risk acceptance – the
plumber is confident that the risk is very low and makes an informed judgment
not to correct it. In this case the impact of being wrong would be financially
catastrophic because of legal liability. In the third option, then, the plumber can
transfer the financial risk to an insurer by paying an annual fee. Although this
practice is possible in developed countries it might be less feasible in many devel-
oping countries.



                                              21
                             HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



   Regulation of plumbing technology and practice is intended to minimize
public as well as private health risks. The main instrument of regulation is the
development and implementation of good practice guidelines, commonly called
a code of practice. There is no doubt that the implementation of a well-designed
plumbing code of practice will assist those who design plumbing systems and the
plumbers themselves, and help to protect the public.




                                        22
                           6. PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE PLUMBING SYSTEMS




6. Principles of effective
   plumbing systems

This chapter summarizes the aims and objectives of a good local plumbing
system – that is, the drinking-water supply that serves a building and the system
for liquid waste removal that connects the building to the sewer mains. The
system should be operating within a context of standards and codes, determined
and overseen by qualified public authorities, that specify the requirements for its
design, composition and management, and the training and practices of the
plumbers and operators who build and maintain it. In places where these princi-
ples are not currently attainable, they should be regarded as high-priority goals
to be achieved when circumstances permit, and positive steps should be taken to
achieve those goals. They are based upon the need to preserve the health, safety
and well-being of the people served by a plumbing system. Efforts should be
made to promote public awareness of the benefits of quality plumbing and the
dangers of an improperly installed plumbing system.
   The three chief aims of a good plumbing system are to supply safe drinking-
water in adequate quantities, to remove liquid wastes efficiently, and to minimize
risk of failure through vigilance and quality assurance. Each of these chief aims
includes a number of subsidiary objectives, which are described in this chapter.

6.1 Water supply goals
The goal for every community or group of homes should be for a piped central
source of good-quality water for all domestic uses. In addition, with a piped
drinking-water supply, proper sanitary transport and waste treatment and disposal
facilities are important to ensure a safe domestic and community environment.
There are costs both in the initial construction and maintenance of these facilities,
and sustainability requires provisions for finance, operation and maintenance.

6.1.1 The local drinking-water supply should be adequate in terms of quantity,
      safety, continuity and reliability
The quality of the water provided through public mains is the responsibility of
the drinking-water supply authority. It should be continuous and pressured at
all times, and it should meet national standards or WHO drinking-water guide-
lines at the consumers’ taps. The distribution system should not be affected by
excessive leakage and it should be constructed of appropriate materials.



                                               23
                                  HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



6.1.2 Water supplied for human consumption should be safe at all times
Plumbing systems in domestic or commercial premises should not be permitted
to degrade the mains water in any way. The drinking-water supply must be pro-
tected from cross-connections with unsafe sources or with wastewater plumbing
systems. It must be able to cope with the hazards of backpressure or back-
siphonage, and the water should not be in contact with plumbing materials that
might impart contamination. Those materials should meet quality and perform-
ance specifications determined by the authorities, or by an accepted certification
organization.

6.1.3 Every building should have an internal drinking-water piped system
An adequate piped supply provides safe access to water for domestic needs. It
obviates the need for the dedication of time and effort to transport of water, and
reduces the risk of contamination during collection, transport and storage.
Ready access to sufficient safe water within the home improves personal hygiene
and facilitates safe management and disposal of sanitary waste. The quality and
quantity of the drinking-water supply within the home not only has a profound
effect on the health of the householders, but also contributes to the comfort and
enjoyment of their lives and those of the community. Interim measures, based on
public standpipes and communal facilities, are effective but they should be
regarded as an intermediate stage towards the realization of these principles.

6.1.4 Water should be conserved by minimizing leakage and wastage
Piping systems and plumbing fixtures should be so designed, maintained and
used as to minimize leakage and wastage. Leakage can also be avoided by sound
installation practices and protection of pipes and fixtures against corrosion and
accidental damage, including that caused by freezing. Quickly repairing leaking
faucets is an important practice. Wastage can also be minimized by proper
education on the need for rational use of drinking-water.

6.1.5 Water should be supplied from a suitable number of accessible and hygienic fixtures
Ideally, every self-contained family dwelling should have, as a minimum, one water
closet, one washbasin, one kitchen sink and one bathtub or shower, and provision for
laundry facilities. Other buildings, whether used for habitation or other purposes,
should be provided with an adequate number of fixtures in accordance with their
respective needs. All plumbing fixtures should be made of durable, smooth, non-
absorbent and corrosion-resistant material, so designed as to be fit for the purpose
and easily cleaned, free from concealed surfaces that could become fouled, and
incapable of contaminating the mains drinking-water supply by backsiphonage.
They should be located and spaced so that they are accessible for the intended use
and for cleaning. Walls and other surfaces that may become accidentally fouled


                                             24
                            6. PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE PLUMBING SYSTEMS



during the use of the fixture should be impervious to water and accessible for clean-
ing.

6.1.6 Building contents should be protected from the effects of malfunctioning
      of the plumbing system
Precautions should be taken against damage to the property, or danger to the
health of its occupants, in the event of malfunctioning of the system. Fixtures
should be provided with adequate overflow capacity. Roof tanks and other hid-
den elements of the system should be similarly provided with overflows that
discharge in such a way as to act as a warning before causing damage. Every pres-
sure vessel that is part of the system should be equipped with a temperature and
pressure relief valve. Food preparation and storage rooms within the building
should be located so that any leakage or backflow in the drainage system cannot
contaminate their area or contents. In the case of industrial or commercial
premises where food is processed or prepared, or where sterile goods or simi-
larly susceptible materials are stored or handled, additional precautions should
be taken by indirect connections of the internal fixtures to the plumbing
system.

6.1.7 Adequate lighting and ventilation should be provided for toilet and washing fixtures
Rooms where water closets, toilets, urinals or other similar fixtures are located
should be properly lighted and ventilated. No such fixture should be allowed in
a room used for living, working, food preparation or other such purposes. Indus-
trial or commercial premises or public buildings containing rooms where food
and drinks or other material for human consumption are served, handled, stored
or prepared should not have a water closet or urinal open directly from such a
room, but should be separated by an adequately ventilated lobby or passage.
Other fixtures, such as sinks, washbasins and baths, should be located so that
lighting and ventilation are adequate to ensure their safe and hygienic use.

6.1.8 Hot water systems should be carefully designed to avoid health hazards
Equipment for heating and storing heated water should be designed and installed
in ventilated areas to guard against dangers from explosion or overheating. Pipes
used for the conveyance of hot water should be made of materials suitable to
withstand the temperature of their contents, and water temperatures should be
maintained at the specified level.

6.2 Liquid waste disposal goals
6.2.1 Liquid wastes should be disposed of promptly and hygienically
Every fixture, including a wall-mounted tap, should have drainage facilities to
prevent the accumulation of wastewater and spillage, even though this may be


                                                25
                                  HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



uncontaminated. Wastes should be removed rapidly from each fixture by a
system of drainpipes that will prevent any further human contact. When a public
sewer exists within reasonable distance of the premises the building waste
system should drain to that sewer. Where no such sewer exists, disposal should
be through an approved method of treatment, such as to a septic tank, where
soils and population densities permit, that is located so as to cause no nuisance to
the occupants of the building or to those of neighbouring properties. Where
chemical closets are used, adequate arrangements must be made for sanitary
disposal of wastewater (such as the wastewater from other fixtures, sinks or
baths), as well as the residue from the chemical closet.

6.2.2 Drainage systems should be of adequate size and easily cleaned
Drains should be of adequate capacity and should be designed, constructed and
maintained to convey wastewater rapidly from the building without fouling,
depositing solids or clogging. They should be furnished with adequate, easily
accessible clean-outs or access chambers (manholes) arranged so that the pipes
can be readily cleaned.

6.2.3 Drainage systems should be equipped with liquid seal traps
Each fixture, or group of fixtures, connected to the drainage system should be
equipped with a liquid seal trap. The depth of liquid in each seal must be
adequate to prevent the emission of odours and gases, and must prevent access by
insects or rodents from the sewer to the premises. Self-sealing waste valves are a
possible alternative to liquid seal traps in some situations.

6.2.4 All drains should be adequately ventilated
Every drainage system should be designed and constructed so that adequate
quantities of air can circulate through every pipe, thus enabling the system to
function properly and protecting the liquid seal of the traps. The uppermost part
of the drainage system should be connected to a ventilating pipe of adequate size,
discharging above roof level and positioned so that the return of foul air to the
building is prevented. Air admittance valves are a possible alternative when
positive pressure is not required. The valves open automatically on sensing nega-
tive pressure within the system, allowing air ingress only.

6.2.5 Deleterious substances should be excluded from sewers
Precautions should be taken to exclude from the drainage system any substance
that may clog or increase the likelihood of clogging of pipes, produce explosive
mixtures, corrode or otherwise damage pipes or their joints, or interfere with the
functioning of sewage treatment plants or not be removable by them, thus con-
taminating receiving waters. Substances that can endanger those who work on



                                             26
                            6. PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE PLUMBING SYSTEMS



the public sewerage system must also be excluded. Pretreatment requirements
and other controls should be imposed on industrial and non-domestic discharg-
ers so that they use suitable disposal methods for those wastes.

6.2.6 Backflow of sewage should be prevented
Drainage systems should be designed and constructed so that sewage cannot
enter buildings connected to the sewerage system in the event of backflow from
the public sewers due to flood, blockage or any other cause.

6.3 Plumbing goals
6.3.1 Plumbing materials and workmanship should conform to accepted quality standards
Pipes, joints, fixtures and other elements of a plumbing system should conform
to accepted quality and performance standards, and should be sufficiently
durable to give satisfactory service over a long period. Indications of conform-
ance with standards is often marked on the product. These standards should be
specified or adopted from existing standards by appropriate authorities. Only
those persons who have been properly trained and have given evidence of their
competence should be responsible for the selection and installation of plumbing
systems.

6.3.2 Plumbing installations should be tested and disinfected before being put into service
Tests suitable for various types and designs of plumbing systems should be
specified by the water, sewerage and other authorities concerned, and no system
should be put into service until such tests have been satisfactorily completed (see
section 7.4).

6.3.3 Adequate training should be provided for plumbing professionals and the public
      should be made aware of the dangers of poor plumbing
It is imperative that individuals installing and monitoring plumbing systems
have access to adequate continuing education and training. An accreditation
system should be developed to ensure that all such individuals have achieved and
demonstrated appropriate levels of competency.

6.3.4 Plumbing systems should be properly maintained
Risk avoidance and minimization depend on the effectiveness of maintenance of
equipment and facilities. For large or complex systems, or where public use or
the handling of food for sale is involved, the public health (or other) authority
may require periodic inspection and retesting as a condition for approval. The
owner of any plumbing system, irrespective of its size or purpose, should be
obligated to identify and to promptly have repaired any fault that may develop,
whatever its cause.


                                                27
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




7. Codes of practice for plumbing


A code of practice is intended to ensure the quality and functionality of plumbing
systems and to protect the health of the occupants of the premises where a plumb-
ing system is to be installed, as well as the health of the public in general.
National codes of practice are often designed to cover all the states, territories or
provinces in that country, and their content applies to all plumbing proposals. In
some instances, the national code may only cover technical specifications and
local authorities may need separate by-laws or regulations to regulate administra-
tive matters for connection to the authority’s water, sewerage or drainage
systems.
   Quality assurance is a major strategy for risk minimization in the supply of
water and disposal of wastewater. A major component of quality assurance
programmes in plumbing is the use of codes of good practice that specify the
requirements to be met to assure conformance with norms. These codes are
usually supported by legislation or by local government regulations and are
therefore referred to as codes of practice or mandatory codes of practice. In some
countries, the term “ordinance” is used to describe them. The term “code of
practice” is used in this document.
   Codes of practice attempt to minimize risk by specifying technical standards
of design, materials, workmanship and maintenance for plumbing systems.
Some model text having particular health significance and a sample model
plumbing code of practice (ordinance) is provided in section 7.1. Citations to
other codes are also provided for reference.
   The primary aims of a plumbing code of practice are to ensure the following:
  • that planners, administrators and plumbers develop the required compe-
    tency so these codes are respected and applied;
  • that standards are set to ensure that plumbing assemblies, materials and
    technologies are safe and effective;
  • that plumbing installations meet these standards;
  • that plumbing installations are maintained to ensure continuous safety and
    effectiveness.
The economic, geographic, demographic and cultural circumstances relating to
plumbing needs vary from country to country and from region to region. The
plumbing code of practice for any given community must take these variations
into account and specify minimum standards accordingly.


                                          28
                             7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



   The responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the code of practice is
awarded to a designated authority such as a national or state government depart-
ment or a local government organization. The designated authority must have
the requisite competence, and the power and responsibility to enforce compli-
ance within its area of jurisdiction. The essential feature of the authority is that
responsibility and power of implementation are vested in a single identifiable
body, whose responsibilities and authority are clearly defined in the plumbing
code of practice. The concept of undivided responsibility for enforcing the code
of practice is particularly important since there may be numerous authorities
that have specific roles and requirements linked to plumbing systems. They may
include water and sewerage authorities, health departments, building (including
plumbing) code officials, food and drug officials, and bodies that deal with
environment, tourism, housing, industry and transportation. Plumbing codes of
practice should address the unique requirements of each of these different bodies so
that a building owner, builder or plumber need only deal with a single authority.
   One of the most effective ways to establish standards and ensure compliance
is through a national plumbing code of practice that is enforced by a national
government department or ministry. This national authority may in turn dele-
gate its powers to state, provincial or local governments. In this way, a set of
all-inclusive national standards and regulations can be adopted in whole or in
part to suit the specific requirements of the particular jurisdiction. It is not
always necessary to develop de novo a code or standards since many models are
available; however, it will usually be necessary to adapt a chosen code to local
conditions. Some examples of local variations could include piping materials to
suit local corrosive water conditions, or the depth of buried piping required to
prevent freezing.
   In some areas, the local authority may establish committees to advise it on
matters dealing with the administration of the plumbing code. This could be in
the form of a plumbing board to deal with the qualifications and licensing of
plumbers, and a committee to deal with technical issues in the code of practice.
These committees would ideally include design engineers, installation contrac-
tors and labour representatives.
   A typical plumbing code of practice will grant the following powers to the
authority charged with enforcing compliance:
  • the right to register and license plumbers to specified qualifications;
  • the right of entry to facilities for the purpose of making inspections;
  • the establishment of procedures and conditions under which permits for
    plumbing installations may be granted;
  • the right to charge fees for granting plumbing licences and permits, in
    accordance with an approved scale;
  • the right to take administrative actions and actions in the courts of law in
    the event of violations.


                                            29
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



   The success of newly adopted plumbing codes of practice and associated regu-
lations depends to a significant extent on acceptance by the public. Education
programmes may be needed to inform the public of the health and safety benefits
of regulated plumbing installations and the dangers of non-compliance.
   The formulation of a plumbing code of practice is a demanding task. However,
most of the challenges have already been addressed in the preparation of codes of
practice in countries and cities around the word, and many of these codes have
stood the test of time. Many codes emphasize the aims and roles of a code of
practice in the form of a preamble or the presentation of general principles, which
sets the scene for the regulations that follow.

7.1 A sample model code of practice
This section offers some model text taken from existing codes of practice as
illustrations to assist those preparing a code of practice. A typical introductory
statement could be as follows:

     The following standards and regulations for plumbing systems were prepared
     under the authority of paragraph XXX [page YYY] of the plumbing code of
     practice number ZZZ dated AAA and adopted by the Authority or Town Council
     of MMM, being the authority having jurisdiction, at its meeting on BBB.

The following is a sample code of practice that designates the town council (or
other authority) of the municipality as the authority having jurisdiction over
plumbing in its area:

     1.   The town council of the municipality (referred to here as “the authority”)
          is hereby designated as the authority having jurisdiction over all plumbing
          systems within the boundaries served by the public drinking-water supply
          system of the municipality.
     2.   For the purposes of this Code of Practice the words “plumbing systems” shall
          be taken to mean all water pipes, drains, sanitary fixtures and other instal-
          lations, whether within or outside buildings, connected or capable of being
          connected in the future, directly or indirectly, to a public water main or to a
          public sewer, irrespective of whether these plumbing systems are publicly or
          privately owned.
     3.   The authority shall specify standards and regulations as it considers neces-
          sary to ensure that all plumbing systems within its jurisdiction are designed,
          installed and maintained in accordance with accepted sanitary principles.
          These standards and regulations shall comprise the “plumbing code of prac-
          tice” of the municipality, that is referred to here as “the code”.
     4.   The authority shall administer the code, for which purpose it shall engage such
          staff or assistance as is necessary and shall take such actions as may be neces-
          sary and reasonable to obtain compliance with its provisions, as regards both



                                            30
                          7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



     plumbing systems already existing within its area and those to be installed at
     any time in the future.
5.   No person shall construct, install, extend or materially alter any plumbing
     system without making formal application to, and receiving formal approval
     from, the authority. Contravention of the code will be sufficient grounds for
     approval to be withheld.
6.   The authority shall maintain a register of persons qualified under the regula-
     tions of the examining board of the national association of plumbers who have
     applied to have their names entered. The authority may grant a licence, at its
     discretion, to anyone so registered to become a “licensed plumber”, after it is
     satisfied that such person is capable, of good repute, and familiar with the
     provisions of the code. Licences of a grade commensurate with the applicant’s
     qualifications and experience shall be granted for a fixed period of years, after
     which they may be renewed after reapplication, but the authority shall have the
     power to revoke or terminate a licence in the event of unsatisfactory work or
     deliberate breach of the provisions of the code. In the event of a dispute regard-
     ing the issuing, renewal or termination of a plumber’s licence, such dispute
     may be referred to an arbitrator, nominated by the authority or incumbent
     president of the national association of plumbers and acceptable to both
     parties, whose decision shall be binding.
7.   Except where the authority shall agree in writing to other dispositions, only
     a licensed plumber shall be authorized to be responsible for the construction,
     repair, alteration or removal of pipes, valves, drains or other appurtenances
     of any drinking-water supply or drainage system (including storm drainage
     discharging into a public sewer or watercourse) in any building or on any land.
     Only a licensed plumber may make a connection to a public water main or to
     a public sewer, and he shall be responsible for giving notice to the water and
     sewerage authorities of the intention of making such connection for satisfying
     any requirements of those bodies.
8.   The authority may require any plumber to whom a licence is granted under
     this code to deposit a performance bond in an amount to be agreed, but not
     exceeding (the sum to be stated) with the authority. This bond shall certify
     that all plumbing work performed by the licensee or under his supervision
     shall be in accordance with the provisions of the code, and that in the case
     of any violation of any of these provisions he shall pay all fines or penalties
     properly imposed by the council. A schedule of such fines or penalties accom-
     panies this code of practice.
9.   The authority shall specify the grades and quality of materials that are accept-
     able for use in the water and sewerage systems in its jurisdiction. The authority
     shall have the right to condemn any used plumbing materials or equipment
     which the authority deems to be so worn, damaged or defective that its reuse
     would constitute a sanitary or safety hazard. Such condemned material shall
     be promptly removed from the site and shall not be reused for plumbing in



                                         31
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



         the area under the jurisdiction of the authority. It is not the intention of this
         paragraph that used material which is capable of satisfactory reuse shall be
         condemned solely on the grounds that it is not new.
     10. The duly delegated representative of the authority (referred to here as “the
         inspector”) shall have the right of entry into premises for which proposals for
         the installation of plumbing systems have been submitted to the authority,
         or in which plumbing has already been installed. Such entry shall be made
         at a reasonable hour and in the company of a representative of the owner or
         occupant.
     11. Particular premises in which there exists any dual water system, premises in
         which food, drink or other material susceptible to contamination is prepared,
         stored or offered for sale, and any other premises which in the opinion of the
         authority present any special health hazards, shall be periodically examined
         by the inspector, after a minimum of 24 hours’ notice has been given to the
         owner or occupant, to confirm that the plumbing system is being maintained
         satisfactorily and in conformity with the code.
     12. In the event of any breach of the code the authority shall, within one calendar
         month of the contravention’s being brought to its attention, serve notice upon
         the offender specifying the nature of the offence and the measures required to
         remedy it. At the same time, where applicable, it shall draw attention to the
         statutory penalty specified for the breach of the code, as listed in the schedule
         of penalties accompanying and forming part of this code of practice. Payment
         of the penalty and completion of the specified remedial works shall discharge
         the offence.
     13. In the event that the person receiving notice from the authority disputes the
         offence in writing within 60 days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the
         authority may take steps to refer the dispute to a court of law or to a form of
         arbitration to be agreed upon by the parties concerned, both sides to be bound
         by the decision so reached.
     14. The authority may refuse to grant permission for a plumbing installation to be
         connected to the public water mains or sewers if it has reason to believe that
         the system contravenes the plumbing code. In such a case the owner or occu-
         pant of the premises concerned may call upon the authority to provide details
         of the alleged infringement of the code. In the event of dispute the matter shall
         be referred to a court of law or other form of arbitration.

The model code may need to be varied depending on factors such as the follow-
ing:
  • whether or not the “authority having jurisdiction” for plumbing is also the
    water and sewerage authority;
  • if a single municipal, state, or provincial authority has coverage of a number
    of local communities;



                                           32
                              7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



  • whether of not there is a national system for the training and examination
    of plumbers;
  • whether the plumbing authority is also responsible for the administration
    of building regulations.
The following sections elaborate on the code of practice and provide additional
context and discussions on particular aspects of the code.

7.2 Applications for approval to install plumbing systems
The process of application for a plumbing proposal will vary from authority to
authority. Some authorities may only require a written application, and others
may require plans and figures detailing the plumbing proposal supported by
existing building details:
     Application for the authority’s approval for plumbing proposals in accordance with
     paragraph XXX [page YYY] of the plumbing code of practice shall be in such form
     and must be accompanied by such plans as the authority may require.

If the authority requires standard forms to be used for applications, approvals,
appeals or other purposes, a schedule with a sample of forms can be attached to
the code or made readily available by other means.
   Where an authority requires plans to accompany applications such require-
ments should also be clearly defined. If these requirements may be relaxed in
certain cases those circumstances should be described in the text.
   A sample description of plan requirements is given below:
     Plans accompanying applications for permission to install, extend or alter plumb-
     ing systems must be submitted in duplicate and one copy will be retained by the
     authority. The second copy will be returned to the applicant with the authority’s
     formal approval.
     Plans shall consist of elevations and sections as necessary, drawn to a scale of not
     less than 1:100, showing the following details in relation to all structural features
     of the building:
     (a) Every plumbing fixture, soil-pipe, drain, water service, ventilating pipe, storm
         water pipe, grease-trap, interceptor or other apparatus, if required, including
         the size and gradient of all drains and the diameter of all other piping;
     (b) The height and position of chimneys, windows or other features of the build-
         ing within a distance of 6 m (20 ft) from the open end of any soil-pipe or
         ventilating pipe;
     (c) The level of the lowest floor of the building and of the surrounding open
         spaces, and the relative level of the highway, street, lane, and of the invert of
         any sewer which is to be connected to the drains.
     A block plan, to a scale of not less than 1:1000, shall also be provided showing
     the premises at which the work is to be carried out, the limits of the property, the


                                             33
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



     positions of the public water main and any sewer at which connections will be
     made, together with other relevant details. The premises must be accurately identi-
     fied by property number or name and street name. The position and diameter of
     the proposed water service between the main and the premises, as well as the size,
     gradient and line of any drain, septic tank or other method of waste disposal, must
     also be shown.

Most authorities will not permit the discharge of storm water into the authority
sanitary sewerage system. Plans of storm water drainage may be required by
some other authorities.
     The plan must include, or be accompanied by, adequate specifications and descrip-
     tions of the work proposed. They must be signed by the applicant, who shall state
     whether he or she is the owner, occupant or agent of the property. If the applicant
     is not the owner then the owner’s name and address shall be shown.
     The plans must indicate the intended use of each building covered by the applica-
     tion. Except in the case of single domestic units, the estimated daily consumption
     of water on which the plumbing design has been based must be clearly shown.
     Additional allowances may also be required for firefighting services.
     If it is intended that the water service pipe, drain or any other part of the plumbing
     system shall cross any land or property that is not under the same ownership as the
     premises to which the application refers, then the name and address of the owner
     of such other land or property must be shown and an indication of the nature of
     the agreement covering way-leave and right of access for maintenance and repair
     must be given.
     The application accompanying the plans should also give the name and registration
     number of the licensed plumber who will be responsible for carrying out the work
     in accordance with the code.

In some cases an application for approval of plumbing proposals may be accepted
by the water and sewerage authorities as an application of permission to connect
to the main and sewer. In other instances a separate approach is required, and it
is essential to make the appropriate procedure clear by reference in the code.

7.3 Setting plumbing standards
There are certain details included in the code that could be regarded as regula-
tions emanating from authorities other than those responsible for plumbing
standards. For example, it is usually considered most desirable that individual
dwellings should each have a separate connection from the water main and to the
public sewer. However, there are occasions, such as when crowded estates or
properties remote from public services are dealt with, when this requirement is
relaxed. This is usually done with a special agreement whereby those who share
a combined service accept responsibility for a proportion of future maintenance
costs.


                                            34
                             7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



    Another detail that should be specifically defined is the boundary between
public services and private plumbing. Where water mains and sewers are laid
under the public road or street it is common practice for the respective authori-
ties to accept responsibility for the drainpipes and service connections that lie
between the boundary of the property to be served and the public main or sewer.
Sometimes the authorities concerned install these pipes themselves and charge
the applicant for the initial cost; sometimes the licensed plumber makes the
connection and lays the pipe, which the authority takes over upon completion;
sometimes the water authority provides an underground valve on a service line
just within the property boundary, and the owner accepts responsibility beyond
that point. In the same way the sewerage authority may construct, or require the
construction of, an access chamber on the border between private and public
land. These practices may vary in different jurisdictions, but in any case it is
essential that the one that is to be adopted should be clearly defined, preferably
in the code.

7.4 Quality assurance and testing
     Upon approval of the application the authority will issue a permit to undertake
     the work within a stated time, and specify the tests to be applied to the plumbing
     system upon completion.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the work is executed in
accordance with the plans and specifications submitted with the application, and
that any conditions attached to the permit are complied with. The authority’s
inspector will have the right of entry to verify that the terms of the permit are
being observed.
   Upon completion of the plumbing work, but before the ground has been filled
in or the internal pipework hidden by structural features, the applicant should
give notice that the system is ready for testing. The form of these tests should
either be part of a national code or should be determined by the local authority.
Their purpose is to ensure the watertightness of both water piping and the drain-
age system.
   Unless otherwise required by a national code or authority, the water system
may be adequately tested by filling the system from the mains and inspecting all
joints and fittings for signs of leakage. Some authorities in high-pressure areas
may require that the installation be tested by increasing the pressure above the
water main pressure. The minimum test pressure of 1.5 times the operating
pressure should be used unless the manufacturer’s instructions indicate differently.
In complex systems the authority may require an air test such as one in which the
whole piping system is subjected to a pressure equivalent to 35 kilopascals (kPa)
held for a period of at least 15 minutes. Where such tests are to be performed it is
usual for the authority to lend or rent the necessary compressor and gauges, and



                                            35
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



for the responsible plumber to connect these and set up the test under the
direction of the inspector.
   Tests on the drainage of the plumbing system are usually applied in sections.
Underground drains are commonly given a water test or air test as soon as they
are completed. After approval the ground can then be filled in, thus reducing the
time that the site is disrupted. The usual procedure is to insert a drain plug in the
sewer connection point or the access chamber nearest to the sewer (this may be
at the boundary of the property) and to fill the whole of the subsurface drainage
system with water. A head of 3 metres maximum to any section of drain may be
applied by temporarily adding a short length of vertical pipe at the upper end. It
is not always practicable to apply this head, especially if there are a number of
gullies in the system, in which case the drains will be filled to the highest point
possible and the test applied in sections.
   The water should remain in the system for a minimum of 10 minutes for clay
drains and 5 minutes for other materials, during which time the water level
should not drop significantly. If the joints of the drain are of cement and are dry,
the system should be filled at least an hour before the test so that no water is
absorbed by the jointing material. If water is scarce, or if for any other reason the
authority prefers an air test, the drains should be plugged and subjected to air
pressure of 30 kPa for a minimum of 3 minutes without a drop in pressure.
Excessive pressures of either water or air are undesirable on underground drain-
pipes, which are not designed to resist such internal stresses. The joints
(especially cement joints of clay pipes) may also become loosened or damaged if
too great a head is applied from within. In such cases the test pressures can be
reduced to provide a minimum of 10 kPa or 1 metre head.
   As an additional precaution the lower access chamber should be inspected
after the water test has been completed and the drains emptied, or after a period
of rain, to confirm that there is no infiltration from the surrounding ground into
the pipe.
   Water tests may be applied to the drain outlets from fixtures within the
building by filling the pipes up to the spill level of the fixtures. In multi-storey
buildings, a water or air test may need to be done in sections of two storeys. An
alternative is a smoke test, in which a machine is used to fill the internal drainage
system with smoke under pressure from a testing machine. The vent stack must
be plugged at its upper end as soon as the smoke emerges, and the pressure
applied should not exceed 250 pascals or the liquid in the fixture traps will be
blown out. The pressure should remain steady for at least 15 minutes, during
which time all fixtures, traps and pipe joints should be inspected for signs of
emerging smoke.
   When the whole system has been successfully tested and inspected the
authority may issue a certificate to that effect as evidence that the plumber’s
work has been properly carried out. In some countries it is required that the


                                          36
                                  7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



plumber issue a compliance certificate indicating that the plumbing and drainage
work complies with the regulations and, in effect, the plumber must guarantee
the workmanship for a nominated period of time.

7.5 Disinfection of new plumbing installations
Any water used for testing the water piping should be from a safe drinking-
water source, and after completion of the test it is good practice for the authority
to require that the system be disinfected. One approach is detailed here. Disin-
fection is normally accomplished by dosing the storage tank with a chlorine
compound (e.g. sodium hypochlorite or calcium hypochlorite) to produce a
20–50 milligrams per litre solution of free residual chlorine, running all taps and
fixtures until the smell of chlorine is evident at all outlets, then closing all taps
and fixtures and allowing the system to stand for an appropriate period (from at
least one hour at 50 milligrams per litre to at least two hours at 20 milligrams per
litre). It is then flushed to waste until the chlorine levels of the emerging water
decrease to normal values. Other approved disinfectants may be used, for
example appropriate concentrations of chlorine dioxide, but it is more difficult to
obtain and handle than chlorine (bleach or bleaching powder). Of course, it is
essential that the gaskets and fittings and other materials in the plumbing system
have been selected to be resistant to damage from the chlorine or other disinfect-
ant at the doses that would be used.
    When disinfecting the system after installation, or when putting a system
back into service after a serious contamination incident, it is necessary to calcu-
late the approximate quantity of disinfectant to be used. This depends upon
three factors – the volume of water contained in the system while no draw-off is
taking place, the percentage of free chlorine (or other disinfectant) in the
compound chosen and the chlorine demand of the water.
    The cubic capacity of the pipework can readily be obtained by measuring the
lengths of pipe of different diameters and multiplying by their cross-sectional
areas. To calculate the figure accurately is a laborious process, and it is more
practical to make a generous estimate since the disinfectant solution can be
somewhat overstrong, but should not be weaker than specified. To the pipework
capacity must be added the volume of the supply cistern and any flush tanks
connected to the system. However, it is important to strive to achieve a relatively
accurate calculation so excessive deterioration of fittings or other problems are
avoided. Manufacturers’ instructions should always be followed.
    To obtain a 50 parts per million solution, 50 grams of free chlorine per 1000
litres (7 ounces per 1000 US gallons; 8 ounces per 1000 UK gallons)1 will be


1
    Conversions: 1 ounce = 28.35 grams, 1 pound (lb) = 0.45 kilograms, 1 US gallon = 3.79 litres,
    1 UK gallon = 4.55 litres.




                                                 37
                                       HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



needed.1 The strength of the compound to be used (whether solid or liquid)
should be known and the quantities adjusted according to the percentage of free
chlorine. If, for example, a bleaching powder of 25% available chlorine is the
agent chosen, 200 grams of the compound will be required per 1000 litres of
solution (1.7 lb per 1000 US gallons; 2 lb per 1000 UK gallons). If the compound
is in solid form it will be expedient to dissolve it immediately before use (Taylor
& Wood 1982; IPHE 2004). Use the supernatant liquid.
    Before dosing begins, all pipework should be flushed out, the incoming mains
supply shut off and the system emptied by opening valves on all fixtures. The
dead space in the supply tank below the lowest draw-off point should be emptied
and cleaned out. Prior to emptying the plumbing system, all of the occupants of
the building should be notified of the expected length of interruption of supply
so that water for use during that period may be drawn off and stored. They must
also be warned against using any flush tank or other fixture while disinfection is
taking place.
    With all fixture taps closed, water from the main is readmitted to the storage
tank and the prepared disinfectant gradually added to the incoming supply close
to the ball valve to ensure thorough mixing. Most, but not all, of the disinfectant
should be added in this way until the tank is full. Water should then be drawn off
from each fixture in turn until chlorine (as evidenced by the smell) emerges, after
which the fixture taps are shut and left undisturbed for the required time. Flush
tanks should be operated until the water they contain is chlorinated. The supply
tank should then be topped up (using the remainder of the concentrated
disinfectant) and the incoming supply shut off once more.
    At the end of the contact period the system is once more emptied through the
fixtures, mains water is readmitted to the supply tank, and fixtures such as sink
or washbasin taps are opened and allowed to run until chlorine cannot be
smelled. Analytical test systems are readily available to test for residual chlorine.
This is unnecessary for water closets or other fixtures where the water will not
be drunk or come into contact with the skin.
    In buildings where no supply tank is installed and fixtures are supplied
directly from mains pressure the procedure is more complex, calling for the use
of a force pump, and this might be carried out by the public authorities, or
according to their special requirements.
    More elaborate disinfecting procedures may be required for complex systems,
and for periodic maintenance of piping and storage tanks in buildings serving
special purposes, for example hospitals, boarding schools, residential hotels and


1
    As plumbing in many countries still uses non-metric measures for fixtures and fittings and their
    use, non-metric equivalents to standard SI units are given, where appropriate, in this book. These
    equivalents may be rounded off, according to requirements in each instance.




                                                  38
                            7. CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PLUMBING



food establishments. The authority may require a bacteriological test (E. coli or
faecal coliforms) of the water in the system after disinfection of the plumbing
system has been carried out. After any disinfection procedure is carried out, the
contractor should issue a certificate of conformity.




                                           39
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




8. Implementation of the plumbing
   code of practice

If a plumbing code of practice is to operate effectively, it is important that the
authority responsible for its implementation fully understands its roles and
responsibilities and the limits of its powers. These roles will vary according to
the scope and power of the authority, but usually include the interpretation of
the code, approval of applications, inspection and certification of new work and
functions such as periodic inspection to ensure continued compliance and penal-
ties for non-compliance.

8.1 Application and approval process
The plumbing code of practice will set out requirements regarding the sub-
mission of application forms and plans and other essential information relating
to the proposed plumbing work. “Plumbing work” must be clearly defined
within the code of practice and it is likely to cover new installations, as well as
substantial replacements or additions to existing systems.
   Types of work that are exempted from the need for approval, such as the repair
or replacement of a single plumbing fixture or small domestic installations
connected neither to a water main nor to a public sewer, should be defined.
Inspectors employed by the authority should be competent to give guidance in
cases of doubt. Borderline cases are most likely to arise in industrial and
commercial premises, where temporary piping is subject to continual adjustment
and realignment. These realignments must be carefully scrutinized where cross-
connection with unsafe sources might occur. Some countries make an exception
regarding domestic property where the work is to be carried out by the owner,
but others regard this exemption as dangerous as it may result in defective
installations that may contaminate public supplies.
   Normally the responsibility for making application to the authority lies with
the owner of the property or the plumbing contractor. Most authorities require
applications to be made on standard forms; this saves time by ensuring that
essential items of information are presented in a recognizable and uniform
manner. The detail required on the application form will depend on the extent
and complexity of the work in question. All application forms should include the
name of the plumber or plumbing business responsible for the work and the
registration number of the individual or business.
   Applications for particular types of work usually need to be supported by


                                         40
                     8. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLUMBING CODE OF PRACTICE



plans, and the code should contain details of the authority’s requirements. Some
flexibility is appropriate. Relatively simple domestic jobs may require basic plans
whereas proposals for larger installations in multi-storey apartments or in
industrial or commercial premises should be shown in considerable detail. In
some cases it may be appropriate to require no more than notification of certain
categories of work rather than require the submission of a formal application for
approval. This will largely depend on the nature of the work, the inspection
resources of the authority (which are often limited) and the terms of the code of
practice. Advance notification is typically required and the code of practice
should specify the number of days before the work is due to begin. The authority
will usually reserve the right to inspect the site at any time before, during or
upon completion of the work, and prior to it being put into service. Failure to
notify is likely to be treated as a breach of the code.
   Once the application and plans are submitted an inspector should be given
responsibility either to approve or reject plans or to recommend their approval or
rejection to the authority. Rejection should only be on the grounds that the
proposals do not comply with the code of practice, or may indicate a health risk
or significant failing, and the reasons for rejection should be specified by the
inspector. Negotiations would usually be capable of resolving differences. There
have been examples of bribery of inspectors and this should be scrupulously
prevented. Inspectors must be well trained and aware of their fiduciary
responsibilities as public health and welfare officials.

8.2 Certification of conformance
After the plans and applications are approved the plumber should notify the
inspector (often on a standard form) when work is due to begin. Similar notifica-
tion will be required of the date when the completed work is ready for testing
and approval. Between these dates the inspector should have the right to enter
the premises at any reasonable hour to inspect the progress of the work and to
examine any materials used. At the conclusion of any test (whether intermediate
on part of the system or final on the completed installation), the inspector should
confirm the findings in writing, usually on a standard form.
   In some countries a system of self-certification operates. This allows appro-
priately qualified and approved plumbers or plumbing businesses to issue a
certificate confirming that they have carried out the work in accordance with the
plumbing code of practice. Such self-certification will be limited to those who
have met specified approval criteria (such as holding formal plumbing qualifica-
tions, being trained in the content of the code itself and holding appropriate
liability insurance coverage) and may be limited to particular types of work. It
might also be possible under such a system to waive the normal requirements for
notification or approval of certain types of work where the work is to be under-
taken by a plumber or plumbing business with a proven track record that meets


                                            41
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



the authority’s approval criteria. Work completed under a system of self-certification
may also be subject to periodic audit by the authority, and the ability to issue
future self-certification may be withdrawn in the light of any significant
problems arising from the audit.
   The authority may provide its own apparatus for testing (such as pressure-
measuring equipment and drain plugs) or it may require the plumber to supply
these items. Where the authority’s equipment is used, it is common for the
plumber to collect it, set up the test and return the apparatus after successful
completion. A rental fee may sometimes be charged by the authority for this
service.

8.3 Periodic inspection
An essential feature of risk prevention and risk minimization strategies is that
facilities are regularly monitored and maintained. As part of its responsibility for
protection of public health and safety, the authority must make certain that
plumbing systems are assiduously maintained at the standard required in the
plumbing code of practice. Ensuring ongoing compliance with the code of prac-
tice through a process of periodic inspection of installations is expensive, so
appropriate priorities need to be set.
   For systems that have the potential to pose a serious risk to public health (such
as premises where food or drink is processed, hotels and lodging houses, and
industrial or commercial premises) it may be a condition of the authority’s
approval that the plumbing system should be retested at specific intervals (such
as every two years), and that such tests should be witnessed by the inspector. The
inspector should be satisfied that no cross-connections or other violations of the
code have occurred since the previous inspection and test.

8.4 Penalties and enforcement
The long-term effectiveness of a code of practice depends on effective enforce-
ment. Any contravention of the provisions of the plumbing code of practice
should constitute a breach of the law, and should be punished accordingly after
the nature of the offence and the identity of the offender have been established.
Because this process can be costly and time consuming, comparatively minor
breaches are rarely followed up in this way. It is common practice to annex to the
code of practice a schedule of administrative penalties related to violation of
particular sections. In case of dispute over breaches the authority may take the
matter to the courts, or settle it by arbitration if the offence is of a technical
nature. More drastic sanctions such as the withdrawal of the licence of a practis-
ing plumber, refusal to permit connection of a new system to the public mains,
or disconnection of an existing installation are reserved for serious breaches of
the code of practice. Some examples might include carrying out work while not
being registered or licensed; altering plumbing systems without notifying the


                                           42
                     8. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLUMBING CODE OF PRACTICE



authority; allowing water to be wasted or contaminated through misuse or
neglect of pipes or fittings; using water for unauthorized purposes; interfering
with valves or other apparatus belonging to the authority, or tampering with the
operation of any meter upon which water charges are based; and refusing admis-
sion to the authority’s inspector, or otherwise obstructing the inspectors in the
performance of their duty.

8.5 Financial aspects of administration of the plumbing code of practice
Implementation of the code of practice and ensuring ongoing compliance have
necessary costs. These include costs of hiring staff to process applications,
inspect work and test systems, as well as office accommodation, training and
management, printing, transport and other incidental items. In some countries
these expenses are recovered from applicants through fees for particular services
(such as an application fee or an inspection fee) and these fees are shown as a
schedule in the code of practice. They should be clearly distinguished from the
fees or charges that may be levied by the water, sewerage or other authority for
specific items of work such as for making a connection to a water main or sewer,
for replacing the highway surface after backfilling a trench, for clearing a septic
tank or for permitting discharge of industrial waste into public sewers.
   Many countries prefer not to include the collection of fees as part of the code.
One justification for this approach is that the services described are provided to
the community as a whole and should therefore be borne by the community as a
whole through the taxing system. Another reason is that it is difficult to produce
a scale of fees where the amount charged is fairly apportioned in accordance with
the service provided. However, it is possible that the reason sometimes is more
practical, in that the income likely to be received may be more than outweighed
by the cost of extra staff and other expenses incurred in collecting and account-
ing for it.




                                            43
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




9. Training and registration of plumbers


Plumbing is a craft calling for technical knowledge as well as manual skills. A
national plumbers’ guild or similar appropriate institution can approve standard
methods for different plumbing practices as a basis for training and for examina-
tion and certification of plumbers.
   Training programmes must ensure that both theoretical and practical aspects
are fully covered. Most plumbing training systems specify two levels of achieve-
ment. The first of these describes a person who has gained the knowledge and
demonstrated the skills necessary to work independently without supervision,
usually designated a journeyman or journeywoman. The second is a master
plumber, a designation applied to those who have completed a number of years
as a journeyperson, and who have demonstrated a superior level of skill and
understanding in the profession. A master plumber is deemed competent to
supervise apprentices and to oversee major construction projects that include the
installation of highly complex systems. Master plumbers also may work as
inspectors for local government authorities. Many countries have formal accred-
ited training programmes for those wishing to gain the title of master plumber.
In many developing countries, where the formal education system offers limited
opportunities for the designation of master plumbers, it is fundamental that the
water authorities themselves make an effort to support the establishment of
schools for plumbers conducive to the formation of this type of professional.

9.1 Training prior to admission to the plumbing trade
In most developed countries, training for admission to the trade is either through
formal apprenticeship lasting four to seven years, or through training at a post-
secondary institution, such as a community college or technical college. When
training in plumbing is provided by a college or other tertiary institution, a
diploma or certificate may be awarded when a student completes the required
course of study. However, while knowledge acquired from textbooks and
lectures is important, it alone does not fully prepare an individual for the demands
of the plumbing workplace. Those knowledge-based programmes must be
coupled with effective on-the-job training in the field, under the supervision of
a fully qualified and experienced plumber (usually a master plumber).




                                          44
                         9. TRAINING AND REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS



9.2 Licensing and registration
Training programmes, whether apprenticeship or college based, are generally
designed to prepare journeymen or journeywomen to successfully meet local
licensing, registration or certification requirements. The granting of a licence is
recognition of the ability of the person to carry out satisfactory plumbing work
without supervision. Where it is a legal requirement to be licensed, registered or
certified, the licensing authority has the power to suspend or revoke a plumber’s
licence for cause. This provides an important incentive for a licensed plumber to
maintain good standards of performance and to avoid breaches of the local code
of practice. Plumbers may also be asked to provide evidence of good character
and reliability before they are licensed. Plumbers may also be required by the
licensing authority to provide a deposit or some form of indemnity or perform-
ance bond to cover the cost of repairing defective work before a licence is grant-
ed.
   In some countries a unit of the national government, such as the public works
department or the national water board, takes responsibility for all aspects of
training and registration. In these cases, the relevant ministry conducts training
courses, holds examinations and maintains a register of qualified plumbers
ranked according to both practical and theoretical experience. Plumbers who are
listed on the register are not required to take further technical examinations to
obtain a licence to practise their trade. When training is based upon an appren-
ticeship system, the apprenticeship programme should be accredited and
monitored by an appropriate third party or by a state or national apprenticeship
agency. The third party may be a national sanitation or health organization, a
building research institute, a trade union or a professional society.
   Some countries do not regulate the activities of plumbers by law. This lack of
regulation and oversight may contribute substantively to poor plumbing,
especially in developing countries.

9.3 Establishing a training programme
The first challenge in setting up a new formal training programme in a city or
country where no such programme has existed is the recruitment of qualified
and experienced individuals to help design and establish the training and certifi-
cation programmes. This may involve the importation of well-trained plumbers
from outside the local area or from nearby nations. The first training
programmes can be set up on a small scale, and these pilot programmes can later
be expanded to meet the needs of the region. Numerous models for these train-
ing programmes exist and they can be the basis for the programme targeted to a
specific jurisdiction.




                                           45
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




10. Standards for materials used in
    plumbing systems

10.1 Standards
Standards are sets of rules that outline specification of dimensions, design of
operation, materials and performance, or describe quality of materials, products
or systems. These standards should cover the performance expectations of the
product for particular applications, as well as, in the case of drinking-water con-
tact, the chemicals that may be leached from the product into the water. The
intent of standards is to provide at least minimum quality, safety or performance
specifications so as to ensure relatively uniform products and performance, and to
remove ambiguity as to the suitability of certain commercial products for par-
ticular applications. They reduce the risk of error by installers, and also provide
assurance to the plumbing system owners. Standards also provide direction to
manufacturers in respect to the expectations of the products that they produce.
Internationally accepted standards provide economies to both the manufacturer
and the user by reducing the number of products of the same type that must be
produced. Standards may be developed by industry, non-profit organizations or
trade associations, as well as national or international bodies. The existence of
credible standards and certifiers relieves the regulatory authority of the need to
develop its own case-by-case standards and product assessment system.
   The existence of a standard does not always ensure that all available products
meet a specific standard. In order to be confident of uniformity in a product
there must be checks and balances. This is accomplished by assessment conform-
ity. Assessment conformity, product listing and certification all have the same
meaning. Simply stated, it means that a product, material or device has been
tested and verified to meet the specification that has been developed. There are at
least three types of certification: where the manufacturer or seller self-certifies
and guarantees the product by warranty or contract; where the manufacturer or
seller obtains verification by a contract laboratory; or where the specific com-
mercial product (not just the class of product) has been evaluated by a credible
independent third-party testing or certifying organization that is in no way
related to or a part of the manufacturer or seller, and which has a system for
policing the validity of its certifications.
   Assessment conformity, by any name, means that a product, service, material,
system, device or component has undergone testing to ensure it meets the



                                         46
                      10. STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS USED IN PLUMBING SYSTEMS



intended standard for such product, material, system, device or component.
There are several organizations that perform assessment conformity and, in
most cases, if a specific product, material, system, device or component meets a
designated standard, the testing organization may allow placement of a mark or
logo of the organization on the product, material, system, device or component
to certify that the relevant standard was successfully met.

10.2 Products and materials used in plumbing
10.2.1 Standards for plumbing products and materials
The durability of a plumbing system is dependent on the quality of its compo-
nent parts and the assembly skills of those who install it. No plumbing system,
however well designed, can be expected to operate safely or hygienically if the
products or materials used are unsatisfactory. The inverse is also true – if the
best-quality products or materials are used but are installed incorrectly, the
system will be a failure.
   Most industrialized countries have national standards or codes that set out the
minimum requirements for the material specifications, design and use of specific
plumbing products. However, plumbing codes of practice vary considerably
according to the extent to which they specify the detailed standards for plumb-
ing products and other matters. Some countries take the view that the level of
detail should be minimized, whereas others are very prescriptive. However, even
prescriptive codes should allow for the introduction and innovative use of prom-
ising new products, materials and installation practices without undue delay.
Countries that are members of the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) may choose to adopt the ISO framework as a minimum standard set for
plumbing products and materials. WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water
Quality should be used as reference in decisions concerning health-related matters.
Several national and international standards and certifying organizations utilize
and expand upon those basic principles by identifying specific products that
comply. It is important to ensure that commonly used plumbing products and
materials are of the same type, at least throughout a country, to take advantage
of economies of scale in manufacturing and to ensure easy accessibility.
   The process of certification of quality of plumbing products may necessitate
the setting up of testing establishments where products can be assessed. In many
cases it will be more economical to simply adopt an existing qualified standards
and certification programme that already has international acceptance. This will
also avoid unnecessary proliferation of standards. Product certifiers and their
testing facilities must be of the highest standard and subject to external auditing.
   The application of suitable materials and products must be supported by
adequate levels of training of plumbers who use them so that they can identify
and use only appropriate products.



                                              47
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



10.2.2 Selecting suitable products
Numerous standards and certification bodies exist nationally and internation-
ally, so it may not be necessary for a country to develop a unique set of standards.
It could decide to adopt one of the existing systems and require that products
are certified to meet that system’s requirements. In judging a product or
material, the regulating authority (or certifier) must consider factors such as the
following:
   • Is the product or material under consideration suitable for the application
     or purpose?
   • Will it be harmful to the health of the community in its normal use?
   • Is there a risk of these materials being released into the environment (e.g.
     the water) in the first instance or after the working life of the product or
     material has expired?
All pipes, valves, taps and other fittings used for the supply of drinking-water or
the removal of wastewater must not contain harmful substances above the speci-
fied amount that could leach into the water. Lead, cadmium and arsenic are
examples of many possible contaminants that could be present. The pipes, valves,
taps and other fittings must be capable of conveying water at a nominated pressure
within a prescribed environment, and must be of sufficient strength to contain
anticipated internal pressures. They must also be able to withstand external
pressures if they are to be buried. The impact of environmental factors such as
heat, cold, expansion, contraction, corrosion, pH and bacteria levels also need to
be considered.
   WHO and many national authorities have developed guidelines or standards
that set out the maximum acceptable levels of metals and chemicals and other
contaminants in public drinking-water supplies (WHO 2004a). These are then
converted to apply to contaminants that may leach from the fixtures and the
associated network of piping systems. For example, a pipe standard might
require that the leaching level of a heavy metal must not exceed 10% of the
drinking-water standard based upon a standard test that simulates use and expo-
sure conditions. Some authorities also insist that piping systems for soil and
waste-water drainage systems comply with the same material criteria. Manufac-
turers in these areas are obliged to comply or risk losing market share or perhaps
face prosecution. The standards set for materials in contact with drinking-water
are minimum requirements and are based upon a specified use condition range;
for example, a product suitable for a cold water system will, in most cases, not be
acceptable for a hot water system. It is common for piping and construction
materials, as well as the water being conveyed, to be seriously affected by aggres-
sive environments and local conditions. In summary, it is still very much in the
hands of the individual project adviser or installer to ensure that the plumbing
products and materials selected for the application are in accordance with official



                                            48
                       10. STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS USED IN PLUMBING SYSTEMS



requirements, will not be unduly affected or influenced by local factors and are
correct for the application.
   As well as deciding what is an acceptable plumbing product or material, the
water authority or governing organization must set standards for the level of
training attained by the installation personnel, a point that cannot be over-
emphasized. In some countries, for reasons of economy, transport, proximity to
manufacturing plants or restricted access to international markets, the choice of
available materials for plumbing products and piping systems is often limited.
Socioeconomic reasons may also dictate the quality and standard of plumbing in
domestic dwellings.

10.3 Metallic and non-metallic materials used in pipework
There are two families of materials available for water pipework systems: metal-
lic and non-metallic materials. Of these the most commonly used materials for
drinking-water supply piping are galvanized steel or iron, copper, polybutylene,
unplasticized polyvinylchloride (PVC), chlorinated polyvinylchloride (CPVC)
and polyethylene (PE). Metal alloys, which far exceed the performance specifica-
tions of their respective parent materials, are also widely used. New materials
and construction technologies are continually being developed for the building
industry and the plumbing industry. Without some form of control at the respective
levels within the plumbing and building industries it would be easy for unscru-
pulous manufacturers to use inferior materials to the detriment of installers and
end-users. This can ultimately damage the environment and the health of the
community and lead to greater costs later when systems fail prematurely.

10.3.1 Galvanized steel or iron
Galvanized steel or iron was the traditional piping material in the plumbing
industry for the conveyance of water and wastewater. The term “galvanizing”
once referred to hot dipped galvanizing, in other words total immersion in molten
zinc after pretreatment cleaning. This technology afforded a reasonable level of
internal and external protection to the metal pipe. In more recent times, the use
of electroplating technologies has provided a more attractive external finish, but
little or no internal protection. Although still included in many codes of practice
throughout the world, the popularity of galvanized piping is declining. It is still
being used extensively in the fire protection industry, but overall there are
increasing limitations on how and where galvanized piping may be used. Internal
and external corrosion is a particular problem where galvanized steel or iron piping
is connected to dissimilar materials, such as copper alloy (brass) in taps and valves.
Internal corrosion can add iron, which causes an undesirable taste and may also
cause unsightly precipitation of iron salts on clothes. Aesthetic guidelines contained
in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality address these matters.



                                               49
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



    The use of galvanized steel or iron as a conduit for drinking-water is a greater
problem where the water flow is slow or static for periods of time due to rust
discoloration caused by internal corrosion. Galvanized steel or iron piping may
also impart an unpalatable taste and smell to the water conveyed under corrosive
conditions. Galvanized steel piping systems are generally accepted for outdoor
use, but because of the size or bulk of the pipe and fittings, and the inflexibility
of such systems overall, the material is not desirable for internal water plumbing.
Galvanized pipe is heavy to handle and is generally joined by threading and
screwing the components together. This is a lengthy procedure when compared
to the assembly of competing non-metallic pipework systems.

10.3.2 Copper tubing
Copper tubing is extremely flexible in the hands of a competent installer and
smaller in overall diameter than the equivalent galvanized steel pipes and fit-
tings. Corrosion can be a problem, though usually to a lesser degree than with
galvanized steel; care must be exercised to avoid contact with dissimilar metals.
Copper tubing, due to its thinner wall section, is relatively light to handle and is
available in coil form or straight lengths as required. When assembled and
installed correctly it can blend into building structures without difficulty. Piping
systems can be assembled with the aid of compression fittings, couplings, or by
lead-free solder or brazing. A high degree of skill is required of installers who
perform braze welding. Compression fittings are much simpler, but may be
obtrusive.
   Copper tube or pipe is also particularly useful for hot water supply systems.
However, heat loss can become an issue if adequate insulation is not provided. As
with all metallic materials, the risk of electrolytic corrosion should be consid-
ered. This occurs most commonly where galvanized steel pipes or fittings
connect with copper alloy (brass) fittings.
   System designers must be aware that water flows through copper tube piping
systems must not exceed 3 metres per second. When this occurs there is a high
risk that the internal bore of the piping system will be eroded by high flow and
velocity scouring. Due to its electrical conductivity there is a need for care to
ensure that grounding connections are separated from piping systems and any
electrical wiring.

10.3.3 Polybutylene
Polybutylene in non-metallic piping systems is becoming accepted as a suitable
material for the conveyance of drinking-water in domestic dwellings in some
industrialized countries. However, it is banned by plumbing codes in USA due
to problems with leaks at joints resulting in significant water damage in dwell-
ings. It is a light, flexible material that is easy to handle and install. It can be used



                                            50
                          10. STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS USED IN PLUMBING SYSTEMS



in domestic dwellings for both hot and cold water supplies. Caution must be
exercised as it can suffer degradation if exposed to excessive pressure and tem-
perature, and exposure to ultraviolet light (sunlight) is also detrimental to the
material.
   There are several jointing systems available for the connection of polybuty-
lene pipework systems, including electrofusion and socket fusion welding and a
variety of mechanical jointing methods. Some mechanical joints rely on an
integral grab ring while others have a compression-type joint, via a nut or a
compression crimp ring or band. Some jointing systems comprise metal in-line
as well as end-of-line fittings, which may not be appropriate in some locations or
conditions. Polybutylene pipe is generally available in straight lengths up to
6 metres or coils 60 metres in length.

10.3.4 Chlorinated polyvinylchloride (CPVC)
CPVC is widely used in water and sanitary systems for hot and cold water
distribution. It is a thermoplastic produced by polymerization of vinyl chloride,
with additional chlorination. CPVC piping is manufactured by extrusion methods
in sizes of diameter 0.25 inch (0.635 centimetres) to 12 inch (30.5 centimetres) in
Schedule 40, Schedule 80 and standard dimension ratio (SDR) dimensions.1 It is
manufactured to copper tube size (CTS). 2 It offers much better resistance to
corrosion and has a high tolerance to acids. It is fire resistant, though toxic fumes
are emitted when it is burned. CPVC is lightweight, non-toxic and odourless,
and reduces growth of fungi, algae and bacteria. It is designed to withstand
continuous operating pressure of 600 kPa at a temperature of 95 ˚C. Pipe and
fittings are readily cut, and joined by solvent welding.

10.3.5 Unplasticized polyvinylchloride (PVC)
PVC, when used with a solvent cement jointing system, is comparable in bulk to
galvanized steel or iron for drinking-water piping, but much lighter. It does not
suffer the same corrosion problems internally or externally as does galvanized
steel. However, it is susceptible to physical damage if exposed above ground and
it becomes brittle when exposed to ultraviolet light. The pipe is light to handle,
but it is too bulky for aesthetically acceptable internal use in domestic buildings.
It is used extensively around the world for drainage (waste or soil and storm
water) applications.


1
    Pipe dimensions are nominal rather than actual; 1-inch Schedule 40 pipe, for example, has an
    actual outside diameter of 1.32 inches and an inside diameter of 1.049 inches.
2
    Copper tube size (CTS) was added to iron pipe size (IPS) when copper tubing was developed.
    CTS is closer to actual size than IPS. Generally, a product made in IPS is called “pipe”, and a
    product in CTS is called “tubing”. CPVC is an exception, being called “pipe” but being sold in
    CTS.



                                                  51
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



   PVC is available with a solvent cement or rubber (elastomeric) ring jointing
system for internal or external drainage systems. Caution must be exercised
when using PVC close to water heaters and similar heat sources. In addition to
the inherent problems associated with the expansion and contraction of PVC,
the material will soften and deform if exposed to a heat in excess of 65 °C.

10.3.6 Polyethylene (PE)
PE pipes and fittings of numerous types and designs have been available for over
forty years. The market requirements today have been refined to three general
groupings, as follows:
High-density PE is available in a post-manufactured stress-relieved state (best-
practice PE), or as extruded product with no treatment. It is used mainly for
drainage applications where it can withstand higher temperature discharges than
PVC. To avoid ovality and installation problems when laying to grade the pipe is
best used in straight lengths, normally up to 6 metres long. Jointing is achieved
by electrofusion or butt-fusion welding or with compression-type joints for
smaller diameter pipes and fittings.
Medium-density PE is more flexible than the high-density pipe. It has a slightly
thinner wall thickness and is capable of withstanding higher internal pressure. It
is the preferred material for long-distance drinking-water piping. Because of the
application and the robust nature of the material it is generally available in coils
of up to 200 metres (650 feet) length, depending upon the diameter. The method
of jointing is the same as for high-density PE pipe. In colder climates coiled
polyethylene piping can be very difficult to use and may be impractical.
Low-density PE is suitable for the irrigation industry, where operating pressures
are very low and a high degree of flexibility and low cost is required. Low-density
PE pipe and fittings are not acceptable for use for connection to the water mains
in many countries because of the low pressure rating of the material and its high
leakage rate.

10.4 General issues related to use of plastic piping
There are numerous composite PE piping systems available and new plastic
materials are constantly being developed. Each must be considered on its merits
for the particular application in hand. In some types, the molecular structure is
cross-linked to attain a stronger product with a reduced wall thickness, allowing
savings in the amount of raw material needed. Combining different types of raw
material together with lamination, overlay extrusion or simply adding selected
reinforcement into the extrusion process can further enhance specific qualities of
the structure of the material to make it more acceptable for use in both domestic
and specialized plumbing applications.



                                          52
                     10. STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS USED IN PLUMBING SYSTEMS



    Providing that the health, safety and durability standards are met, pipes and
fittings manufactured from plastic materials have many advantages for use in
both hot and cold water plumbing systems. They are light, easily handled and
transported, and require fewer joints than metal pipes when available in long
lengths. Pipes and fittings manufactured from plastic materials may cost more to
purchase than metal pipes or tubes and their ancillary fittings, but the time spent
installing a plastic pipe system is generally much less than a metallic system and
this may result in overall savings.
    Where a large project is to be undertaken, it is not uncommon for a plastic pipe
manufacturer to bring in moulding or just extruding machines with the
appropriate dies, tooling and raw materials, and commence manufacturing in
close proximity to the market or project site. This in turn can bring about savings
in transportation and handling costs. Long delays in supply can also be averted,
resulting in rapid on-site progress. Sometimes only the pipe is made at the
remote locations due to its bulk, and fittings, especially when there is a large and
varied range, are brought in separately.
    It is important for plumbing systems that different pipe types remain separated
and not intermixed with similar products. For example, rainwater or storm
water drainage pipes and fittings should not be used for sanitary plumbing (soil,
waste or vent pipe) applications. They have a thinner wall section and are not
designed for higher temperatures or deeper than near-surface and above-ground
applications where durability is not a major concern. Conversely soil, waste and
vent pipes and fittings could be used for rainwater or storm water, but they are
unnecessarily expensive for those applications.
    Some standards and codes call for different-coloured pipes and fittings to
define the designated application of the product and to assist installers, as well as
for future identification to prevent cross-connections. For example, PVC pipe
and fittings are easily manufactured in various colours; other materials that are
not so easy to colour may rely on a stripe of colour set onto the pipe during
extrusion or painted bands and labels applied after installation, with specific
markings or instructions with regard to fittings, etc. Other authorities, such as
electricity and gas providers, may also utilize colour coding for their buried
pipelines. To avoid confusion care should be taken to coordinate the identification
strategies or policies for all pipes and services.

10.5 Earthenware pipes
Earthenware is also referred to as glazed stoneware, terracotta or vitrified clay.
Furnace-baked earthenware has been the most commonly used material for under-
ground drainage systems. It can be locally produced in almost any country
provided there is a source of good-quality clay and an energy supply to fire it. In
the past, glazing was achieved by throwing salt into the fire towards the end of
the firing process. This method of salt glazing damages kilns and does not


                                             53
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



always create an even finish or glaze. Advanced material and management tech-
nologies, combined with the use of sophisticated tunnel kilns, have in recent
years seen the emergence of a completely new generation of vitrified earthenware
pipes and fittings of a quality previously unattainable. They are chemical and
temperature resistant with elastomeric jointing couplings. The high cost
currently precludes their use in domestic dwellings, but there are many special
commercial or industrial applications.
   Installing old-style earthenware drainage systems is difficult and maintenance
is demanding because of breaks and blockages. The inherent rigidity of the
system can cause the pipes to break loose at the joints or cause the pipe itself to
break close to the joint just behind the collar. Tree roots can grow into the open
joint or broken pipe and will eventually block the drain. In some cases
groundwater can infiltrate the drain, causing the system to become overloaded.
There is also the risk of contaminating the groundwater by the leakage of raw
sewage from the broken joint or pipe. A further disadvantage is that earthenware
pipes are heavy to transport and expensive to install compared to lighter
materials such as plastics.
   Plastic, mainly PVC, is now the most commonly used material for drainage
systems for the conveyance of sewage and wastewater from dwellings. Other
materials, such as cast iron, ductile iron, copper, fibre cement and vibrated
concrete, are sometimes used for drainage systems. Each has its strengths and
weaknesses; their longevity in service is dependent on how well they are
installed, the nature of the water or other materials passing through them, and
the installation environment.

10.6 Design of plumbing fixtures
Both the component materials and the design of plumbing fixtures (baths, wash-
basins, sinks, tubs, toilet pans, etc.) should be subject to standards and certifica-
tion to ensure integrity and safety. Fixtures should be free of sharp projections
and sharp corners that may cause injury. In order to prevent drainage sewer
gases from entering the area where the fixture is installed, a fixture trap should
be incorporated into the fitting, or provision should be made for fitting one at a
later date. To protect the drinking-water supply, all plumbing fixtures should be
designed so as to ensure that incoming water is delivered through an air gap.
Tapware should be appropriately matched to the fixture that it is intended to
serve. When installed, all taps and water delivery outlet fittings should have an
adequate clearance between the water outlet and the spill level or water overflow
level of the fixture being served. It is possible for the overflow on any fixture to
become blocked, which would compromise the air gap by not leaving the correct
clearance. In situations where a portable or flexible hose or tube is attached to the
water outlet, and an air gap cannot be provided, an appropriate backflow preven-
tion device should be installed in the pipework supplying the fixture.


                                          54
                     10. STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS USED IN PLUMBING SYSTEMS



   Local usage and customs should be considered when assessing plumbing
requirements. An example is the choice of pedestal toilet bowls or squats. It may
also be necessary to conduct training sessions in the use of particular fixtures to
ensure that they are maintained in a satisfactory and hygienic state. In some
areas it is customary to provide a drinking-water supply tap adjacent to the toilet
fixture to facilitate personal ablutions. In such cases strict precautions must be
taken to prevent contamination or cross-connection with the drinking-water
supply system.

10.7 Sanitary fixtures
Sanitary fixtures should be durable, smooth and impermeable to water. There
should be no hidden surface that can become fouled or polluted. Both internal
and exposed outside surfaces should be accessible for cleaning. The most com-
mon and most economical material for domestic fixtures such as toilet bowls,
urinals, and washbasins is vitreous china. For more durable day-to-day use in
kitchen sinks and laundry tubs, stainless steel is recommended, but enamelled
pressed steel and suitable plastic materials may be acceptable.
   Plastics are commonly used for bathtubs, shower trays, laundry tubs, cisterns,
washbasins and toilets and are often reinforced with fibreglass for extra strength
and durability. Plastic materials, although generally durable in themselves, are
readily prone to surface damage such as scratches and cuts. Stainless steel is a
preferred material for plumbing fixtures where there is a risk of damage from
users, such as in institutions and public amenities. Stainless steel is currently the
only suitable choice in commercial or industrial food preparation areas.

10.8 Concrete products
The manufacture of plumbing products of any kind is expensive because of the
capital investment in plant and the associated tooling. Unless high production
volumes are anticipated, it is often more economical to import such items. To
save foreign currency, materials such as concrete can be used for the local manu-
facture of fixtures for some domestic applications. These products are inferior to
those discussed above, but they may be a realistic option. Ideally, concrete
products should be designed so that angles, both internal and external, are
rounded for ease of cleaning, and outlet pipes may be integrally cast into the
body of the fixture. Concrete fixtures should be restricted to shower trays and
baths, and possibly laundry fixtures such as troughs. It is recommended that
concrete fixtures be cast in place wherever possible to eliminate the need for
transportation. Concrete should not be approved for kitchen or food preparation
sinks or benches. Local codes should cover all probable issues involving concrete
fixtures, general design principles, etc., and also specify the proportions of sand,
aggregate, cement and water required with general mixing, placement and finish-
ing instructions. Preliminary investigations should ascertain the availability of


                                             55
                            HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



local materials of the appropriate quality to ensure that the products can be
produced satisfactorily. Concrete products cannot be made completely
impervious; surface treatments such as ceramic tiles are sometimes used to
address this problem.




                                       56
                              11. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS




11. Design of plumbing systems


A plumbing system is a long-term investment and should be so designed that it
does not become outdated and need replacement while its major parts are still
serviceable. This requires careful estimation of current and future demand so
that the correct capacity can be specified.
   The capacity and dimensions of component parts in a plumbing installation
should be adequate to meet both immediate needs and anticipated future use.
However, perfection in design is frequently compromised by cost, especially in
poor and developing communities.
   Good design of plumbing systems is an important step in ensuring that the
installations are efficient, safe and affordable. It should take into account the
special needs and limitations of developing countries and should also ensure that
the installations are appropriate for the different situations they serve. An under-
standing of the technical requirements and regulatory restrictions is vital for the
provision of good plumbing services. This chapter includes design recommenda-
tions for plumbing installations in single dwellings, multiple dwellings and
multi-storey buildings. It deals with special issues related to industrial and other
special purposes, hot water and other dual supply systems and storm water
drainage. It includes guidelines on capacities of plumbing systems, plumbing
materials and products, and the use of protective devices to prevent back-
siphonage and backflow.

11.1 Drinking-water supply pipes and specifications
Table 11.1 lists the typical unit water demands for the design of plumbing
systems for various classes of buildings.
   In each case the actual values will depend on local conditions, but no water
service pipe should be of less than 20 millimetres (0.75 inch) diameter and all
water service pipes should be laid so as to avoid high points where air may
become trapped. Usually the water service pipe between the public main and the
curb cock (the water authority’s main water shut-off valve) at the boundary of
the property belongs to the water authority, which assumes responsibility for its
future maintenance, and the remainder of the service pipe is the responsibility of
the owner of the property (in many cases, the responsibility of the water author-
ity is extended up to the meter).



                                           57
                                            HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



TABLE 11.1 TYPICAL DEMANDS FOR VARIOUS USES
Class of building                                                                 Consumption per day (litres)

Dwelling houses and apartments, per occupant                                                40–120
Industrial and commercial premises, staff sanitary facilities, per staff member             10–30
     Addition per staff member, if showers or baths are provided                             10–15
Motels, per occupant plus staff:
     With communal baths                                                                   100–200
     With private bathrooms for each bedroom                                               200–400
     Luxury hotels in the tropics                                                          400–600
Hospitals, per bed, including catering and laundry                                         350–500
Nurses’ homes and medical quarters, per occupant                                           115–150
Schools, per occupant plus staff:
     Day schools                                                                             15–30
     Boarding schools                                                                      100–200
Cinemas, theatres, per seat                                                                   8–15
Restaurants, per seat plus staff                                                            75–100
Laundries, per kg dry laundry:
     Hand operated                                                                          30–40
     Mechanized                                                                             60–90
Airports, bus or railway terminals, per passenger catered for plus staff                    15–45
Addition per passenger catered for, if showers or baths are provided                        10–15
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 55).


   The depth at which the service pipe should be laid will depend on climatic and
other circumstances. In areas subject to frost, the depth specified should be
sufficient to avoid damage from freezing, and a depth of 1 metre (3 feet) or even
more may be required. However, a maximum depth should be specified to facili-
tate future maintenance and installation procedures and to enable the pipe to be
tracked if required. In tropical areas it is desirable that the incoming water
should be kept cool, and a depth of 0.5 metres (20 inches) may be suitable. Where
the ground is under cultivation, a depth of 0.8 metres (30 inches) should provide
adequate protection. Distance requirements from other services such as electric,
telecommunications and gas pipes should be specified. Under no circumstances
should a service pipe be permitted to pass through a sewer, access chamber or
inspection chamber. Table 11.2 shows the minimum diameter of water pipes
needed to supply various types of plumbing fixtures.

11.2 Drainpipes
Each separately occupied building should have its own drain connection termi-
nating at the public sewer. Such drains should be of adequate size, and laid at a
constant gradient that will permit their contents to discharge at a self-cleansing
velocity. Drains carrying human wastes need to have a diameter of at least 100
millimetres (4 inches) for a single dwelling and at least 150 millimetres (6 inches)
if more than one property is served. Where a number of plumbing systems have


                                                          58
                                               11. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS



TABLE 11.2 MINIMUM INTERNAL DIAMETER OF WATER PIPES TO PLUMBING FIXTURES
Plumbing fixture                                                                         Minimum internal diameter

Drinking fountain, washbasin, water closet with flush tank                                     10 mm (0.375 inch)
Bathtub, domestic dishwasher, hose connection, domestic water heater,
shower, sink, urinal with flush tank                                                           15 mm (0.5 inch)
Commercial sink, urinal with flush valve                                                       20 mm (0.75 inch)
Water closet with flush valve                                                                   25 mm (1 inch)
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 60).


a single connection to the sewer, the plumbing authority may require a combined
drainage agreement or other documentation to ensure that disputes do not arise
over the apportionment of maintenance responsibility.
   Although internal and external drains are often referred to as “horizontal”,
they should never be laid level, but at a constant gradient that will ensure satis-
factory drainage. A minimum velocity of 0.6 metres (2 feet) per second will
prevent solids building up to block the pipe, and if the maximum velocity is
limited to 3 metres (10 feet) per second this will prevent scouring and damage to
the pipes. Table 11.3 shows the gradients at which these velocities are reached in
pipes of various diameters and the approximate quantities that will be carried at
such velocities.

TABLE 11.3 GRADIENTS TO PRODUCE MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM VELOCITIES IN DRAINS
                                      Minimum velocity 0.6 metres                    Maximum velocity 3 metres
                                          (2 feet) per second                           (10 feet) per second
         Diameter                          Grade       Carrying capacity             Grade          Carrying capacity
          of pipe                                         per second                                   per second
                                                         US      UK                                   US      UK
      mm         Inches                %      Litres   gallons gallons           %      Litres      gallons gallons
      100          4                  0.87      5        1.3        1.1         21.7      24          6.4      5.3
      150          6                  0.51     11        2.8        2.4         12.6      54         14.2     11.8
      250         10                  0.26     30        7.9        6.6          6.4     150         39.6     33.0
      300         12                  0.20     43       11.4        9.5          5.0     216         57.0     47.5
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 59).


It may be necessary to use a pipe with a larger diameter if the relative levels of the
building and the sewer are such that the appropriate gradient is inadequate to
give a self-cleansing velocity for a particular size of pipe. However, a larger pipe
will also have a tendency to lower velocity due to the fact that more of the water
is in proximity to the frictional bed (contact surface between water and pipe). If
the slope of the ground would cause the maximum velocity or gradient to be
exceeded, the drain should be stepped, with the base of each vertical riser being
adequately supported and the vertical section of the drain securely held in place.
Such vertical sections can be more readily secured inside an access chamber.


                                                               59
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




12. Design of plumbing systems
    for single dwellings

12.1 General considerations
A single dwelling is a building designed for a single family or a group living as a
family. It may be a house of one storey or more (whether detached or part of a
terrace or block) or a self-contained apartment, and it has its own separate water
and drainage connection. All pipes carrying either water or wastes should be
watertight, durable and have a smooth and unobstructed interior. In order to
avoid the risk of cross-contamination, the drinking-water supply from the water
main and the drain connection to the public sewer should be separated. If for
some reason water service and drainage pipes must be laid in the same trench, the
water pipe should be laid on a firm shelf dug along one side of the common
trench and should be at least 50 centimetres (20 inches) above the drain through-
out its length, and both pipes should be laid with a minimum number of joints.
Care should be extended to ensure that the water main is deep enough to prevent
freezing in climates with low ambient temperatures.
    Pipes need to be adequately protected against stresses caused by settlement or
movement of ground where they pass into the building or under any interior
wall. They should not be rigidly built into the structure, but should be separated
by a layer of sand or flexible filler that can absorb stress due to unequal settle-
ment.
   The water service should be controlled by a corporation stop connected to the
main by use of a special tool, which allows its installation without shutting off
the public supply. The corporation stop is usually under the street or sidewalk
and reaching the valve would require breaking the pavement. The incoming
water service is further controlled by a curb cock typically situated near the
point where the pipe crosses the boundary or property line. The curb stop is
used to isolate the building from the main for repairs. It is normally placed in a
box to allow easy access for opening and closing the valve. A long-handled
wrench is the tool normally used to reach the valve. Where there is a serious risk
of contamination of the public water mains by backsiphonage, this should be
followed by a backflow prevention device. A stop shut-off valve should be located
as close as possible to the meter and before any tappings or connections are made.
   A drain cock should be positioned so that it allows emptying of all internal
piping connected to the mains drinking-water supply. This system connection
allows for drainage if the dwelling is left vacant for a period or if pipes need to be


                                           60
                     12. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR SINGLE DWELLINGS



modified or repaired. This is especially important in areas subject to frost. The
drain cock should be easily accessible, and ideally it should be fitted with a hose
connection to permit the drained water to be led outside the building. If fitted
with a hose connection an approved backflow prevention device should be also
installed.

12.2 Domestic storage tanks
There is considerable debate over the desirability in distributed water systems of
domestic storage tanks or cisterns. An argument in favour of domestic storage is
that it provides an air break that virtually excludes the possibility of back-
siphonage and contamination of the public mains. Without this air break it is
possible for contamination to occur whenever the mains pressure is reduced. In
the event of temporary stoppage of mains supply (due to planned stoppages,
breakdown or repairs), sufficient water is stored in the tank to provide domestic
supply for a short period. The major disadvantage is that these tanks can become
contaminated. Where distribution systems work without intermittency and the
authority ensures a continuous positive pressure fixtures connected directly to
the incoming water service pipe should be preferred, avoiding the need for a
tank.
   Tanks should always be covered by a close-fitting lid having an overlap to
prevent its displacement, but not so airtight that air pressure can build up when
the water level fluctuates within the tank (Taylor & Wood 1982). Those located
below or at ground level are at special risk, as are those whose contents can be
removed by dipping with a container. They should be inspected periodically and
disinfected. Chlorine is frequently used but other approved disinfectants may
also be effective.
   In addition the pressure on plumbing fixtures remains constant despite
fluctuations in the mains pressure. This is especially important where heaters or
washing machines may be used.
   An overflow pipe of at least 50 millimetres (2 inches) diameter must be fitted
to every tank, and the tank and the overflow pipe should be fitted with insect
screening. The internal diameter of the overflow pipe should be sized to accom-
modate the possible flow of water due to complete failure of the inlet valve.
Possible restrictions caused by the insect screen should be taken into considera-
tion. Enough space should be allowed to permit the water to rise to a height of at
least twice the diameter above the top of the overflow without spilling. The ball
valve inlet should be not less than 75 millimetres (3 inches) above the top of the
overflow, thus providing an air break between the inlet pipe and the water in the
tank.
   The outlet(s) from the storage tank to the plumbing system should be taken
from at least 50 millimetres (2 inches) above the floor of the tank, and should be
controlled by a stop valve (or valves) at the first accessible point within the


                                             61
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



dwelling. A separate drain should be set at the bottom of the tank and controlled
by a valve to permit complete emptying of the tank. The diameter of the incoming
service pipe should remain constant between the drain cock and the storage tank.
    In a house with a pitched roof it is usual to locate the tank within the rafters,
provided there is sufficient access to permit inspection, cleaning and repairs. For
any roof mounting, the structure must be strong enough to carry the weight of
the full tank. A full 500-litre (130 US gallons; 110 UK gallons) tank will weigh
more than 500 kilograms (0.5 tonne). Sometimes it may be necessary to distrib-
ute the load by interconnecting two or more smaller tanks, but this should be
avoided because of the potential that the water could stagnate (especially in the
absence of residual disinfectant), thus causing excessive growth of heterotrophic
bacteria (Bartram et al. 2003). If tanks are joined together, the inlets and outlets
should permit a good throughflow of water to help delay or prevent stagnation.
A single ball valve may serve to control the water level in both but each should
have its own overflow pipe. In areas subject to extreme heat (> 20 ˚C) or cold
(< 4 °C), tanks need to be insulated adequately. In a self-contained apartment it
may be necessary to mount the tank near to the ceiling, such as inside an airing
cupboard. A drip tray of adequate size below will collect condensation or leak-
age resulting from failure of the tank itself.
    Some authorities may specify a standard tank size based upon the number of
occupants and fittings, and the expected consumption per person (see Table
11.1). Thus, in an area where the daily water consumption is assumed to be 80
litres (20 US gallons; 18 UK gallons) per adult and 40 litres (10 US gallons; 9 UK
gallons) per child, a dwelling capable of housing five adults would need a tank
with a capacity of 400 litres (100 US gallons; 90 UK gallons). An apartment
designed for two adults and one child would require a storage capacity of only
200 litres (50 US gallons; 45 UK gallons).
    While tanks should be sufficiently accessible to permit maintenance, cleaning
and adjustment of the ball valve when necessary, they should never be so placed
that water can be withdrawn manually by the householder through dipping or
ladling, because this would make it much more vulnerable to microbial con-
tamination.
    The sink tap connected directly to the main is doubly vulnerable to the pos-
sibility of water used for drinking or food preparation becoming contaminated
within the building plumbing system. When this connection is permitted, it
should be protected by an approved air gap or backflow protection device or an
air gap between the outlet of the tap and the overflow level of the fixture or sink.

12.3 Domestic water closets
Table 11.2 lists diameters for connections from the water line or storage tank
outlet to the various plumbing fixtures. Water closets should each be provided
with a flushing cistern with an internal or external overflow controlled by a ball


                                          62
                      12. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR SINGLE DWELLINGS



valve or a similar device. Properly designed flushing cisterns deliver a fixed quan-
tity of water in a short period, and refill at a steady rate through an inlet valve.
The air break in the cistern provides an additional health safeguard.
   Some authorities permit the use of flushometer valves instead of flushing
cisterns for domestic water closets. However, these contribute to excessive water
use. Pipes of a greater diameter are required to give a complete flush, and this
may add to the cost. Flushometer or flush valves are also pressure and flow
dependent and have maximum and minimum operating parameters. Overflows,
normally at least twice the diameter of the inflow inlet pipe, should be taken
through the wall to discharge outside. They should not discharge into the closet
bowl because leakage often goes undetected. Overflow pipes should be located
so as to provide a visible warning that the ball valve is not operating properly to
cut off the incoming supply.
   The inlet valve itself should be set higher than the top of the overflow pipe, the
vertical separation being at least one and a half times the diameter of the over-
flow.

12.4 Wastewater traps
The outlet from every plumbing fixture should be trapped separately by a water
seal device with a liquid seal of not less than 50 millimetres (2 inches) and not
more than 100 millimetres (4 inches) in depth. Self-sealing waste valves may also
be appropriate for this purpose. The pipe leading from the trap needs to have a
diameter at least equal to that of the trap itself. The requirement that each plumb-
ing fixture should be equipped with its own separate trap may be relaxed under
certain circumstances, notably when combination fixtures are used, such as
prefabricated units incorporating shower, washbasin, sink or other fixtures. It is
sometimes allowable to install separate fixtures of this nature and combine the
untrapped outlets into a single trap serving all. Under no circumstances should a
water closet be part of such an arrangement; it is better to insist upon individual
trapping. The amount of money saved by combining outlets is small, and the
drains above the trap are more subject to clogging and the emission of foul
odours due to the deposition of grease or soap on the wall of the pipe.
   Sinks, washbasins and similar fixtures should incorporate overflows that
discharge into the waste pipe below the stopper and above the outlet trap. Wash-
basins and similar fixtures may incorporate integral or attached overflows to
discharge into the fixture waste pipe above the water seal of the trap and below
the drain plug or stopper to the fixture. Sinks used in food preparation areas
should not be fitted with overflows as they can become an entrapment area for
food particles and a breeding ground for microorganisms and vermin. The outlet
from a water closet should be not less than 75 millimetres (3 inches) in diameter.
   Other domestic fixtures should have outlets of at least the following dimen-
sions:


                                              63
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



  • washbasin, bidet or dishwasher: 32 millimetres (1.25 inches);
  • sink or shower: 40 millimetres (1.5 inches).
Note: Some codes of practice require that a shower drain may not be less than 50
millimetres (2 inches) in diameter.
   Each fixture should have a grille or strainer to prevent solids, such as hair and
pieces of soap, from entering and choking the trap. The grille or strainer should
be easily removed in case a child’s finger becomes trapped.

12.5 Drains and ventilation pipes
The vertical ventilation or stack pipe is an essential feature of all plumbing
systems. It prevents foul odours from the drain entering the building and also
provides outlet to the open air. It also ensures that neither vacuum nor pressure
can build up in the drainage system that might suck or blow the liquid seal from
the fixture traps. There is no significant health difference between systems with
exterior stacks and those with interior or concealed stacks. When plumbing is to
be installed in existing buildings not already equipped with plumbing systems,
installation may be simpler and less expensive if external stacks are allowed.
    In some locations the most common method of installing the stack pipe in
single dwellings is by mounting it outside against the exterior wall of the build-
ing. The weight of the pipe is supported at the lower end by a radius bend, set
into a block of concrete adjacent to the building foundation. Its upper end is
taken through or around the eaves (of a sloping roof) and extended upward at
least 0.3 metre (1 foot). The water closet is located inside and adjacent to the
exterior wall and its outlet carried through the wall to join the stack pipe at a
junction fitting. Provision should be made to permit thermal movement between
different plumbing materials, fixtures, pipes and fittings and the infrastructure
of buildings into which such materials are installed. Of particular importance is
pipework between fixed points that need to incorporate stress relief points and
flexible joints to prevent failures to the plumbing system itself or the host struc-
ture.
   The use of exterior stack pipes of this nature is not universal. In cold climates
the danger of blockage or fracture from freezing prevents their use, and it may be
necessary to keep all drainage within the building using a one-pipe system, as
described later in this document. However, air admittance valves may also be
used in primary or secondary ventilated systems, provided they are used within
their application limits (see section 6.2.4). Exterior stacks may also be considered
an eyesore, and the authority may require that the stack be installed within a wall
where it cannot be seen except for the section that projects through the roof. An
interior stack should be tested for not less than 15 minutes and visually examined
to ensure that all joints are watertight prior to the application of the wall finish-
ing material that will conceal the piping. This may be done by closing all outlets
except the highest and completely filling the stack with water. If leaks are


                                          64
                      12. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR SINGLE DWELLINGS



detected, the water should be drained from the stack, the leak repaired and the
system retested until no leaks are evident. If leaks do occur in concealed pipes, a
foul odour may be the only indication that a pipe is not watertight or gasproof.
Exterior pipes reduce the risk of leakage going undetected and are far more
accessible if repairs are necessary.
   As indicated earlier, the upper end of any type of stack should be at least 0.3
metre (1 foot) above roof level. If the roof is flat and accessible this height should
be increased to at least 2 metres (6 feet). The stack pipe should be well clear of
windows or fresh-air inlets, and should be protected by a wire cage to stop birds
nesting in it. Where it is impossible to carry any internal stack above roof level it
may be taken through the outside wall of the building and carried upwards to
terminate at least 3 metres (10 feet) horizontally from or 0.75 metre (2.5 feet)
above any window or other opening of the building or of any adjacent building.
No vent pipe, either above the roof or through the wall, should be used for any
other purpose, such as supporting an antenna, stay wire or other structural
fixture.
   Water closets should be connected to the horizontal drain leaving the building
by the shortest possible route. For dwellings more than one storey high, the
drain from a water closet on the upper floor should descend vertically, the upper
part of this vertical pipe being carried upward to terminate in the open air above
roof level. In single-storey buildings a vertical ventilation pipe should be carried
upward from the top of the drain as close as possible to the outlet from the water
closet. The connection of the water closet outlet to the stack pipe should be by
means of a junction fitting. Where the water closet bowl is set on a rigid floor
such as concrete, the pipe connecting it to the stack may be of rigid material with
cement mortar or other solid jointing. Where the floor is of wood or other
resilient material, either the pipe must be of plastic or of similar non-rigid com-
position or the joint between the bowl and the outlet pipe must be flexible,
otherwise there is a danger of the bowl snapping.
   Where in a single-storey building the stack is carried upward from the top of
the water closet outlet pipe, the weight of the vertical stack must be either
supported independently or a concrete base block must be provided to prevent
deformation or crushing of the horizontal outlet pipe. At the bottom of the stack
pipe a radius bend (to prevent clogging) leads the water closet outlet to the head
of the horizontal drain connecting with the public sewer.
   Outside the building at least one watertight inspection point or access
chamber should be constructed; this should have a rigid cover capable of bearing
any loads that it is exposed to. This access chamber serves several purposes:
  • It gives an access point from which the drains can be inspected and rodded
    (both towards and away from the building).
  • It provides a point from which tests can be applied to the drainage element
    of the plumbing system.


                                              65
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



  • It forms a junction into which the drainage from other plumbing fixtures
    may be brought to discharge into the horizontal drain. If more than one
    water closet is installed in the building the junction between them must
    also be made in the access chamber.
An additional access chamber should be constructed wherever there is a change
of direction or gradient of the horizontal drain, a junction of two drains or a
length of drain of more than 30 metres (100 feet).
    When the two-pipe system with exterior stack pipes is used, the outlets from
fixtures other than water closets should be carried outside the building and
discharged into the horizontal drain at an inspection joint or access chamber.
Relaxation of this condition is sometimes permitted where, for example, a single
washbasin or similar fixture is to be connected directly to a stack or horizontal
section of the drainage system within the building. In such cases a properly made
fitting with no interior obstruction that might cause clogging should be used,
and any connection to a horizontal section should be made at the top of the pipe.
Clean-outs should be provided to enable all parts of the connection to be
rodded.
    Formerly it was considered necessary for an interceptor chamber, boundary
trap or access chamber with a trapped outlet to be constructed at the last point
on the property before the horizontal drain crossed the boundary. Some
authorities still make this mandatory. Occasionally a fresh-air inlet is also
required, but modern practice omits the need for this trap in the drain provided
the plumbing system is ventilated as described above.

12.6 Connections to the public sewer
The wastewater drain should terminate at the public sewer where it is connected
by a branch fitting or by a saddle jointed to the upper part of the pipe. The sewer-
age authority will often have its own regulations for jointing to the sewer. The
actual jointing operation is frequently carried out by staff employed by the
authority (the cost being charged to the owner of the building). In some cases the
authority will construct the entire drain system from the property boundary to
the sewer. Much will depend on whether the authority takes over ownership and
responsibility for maintenance of this part of the drain. The plumbing code of
practice should specify the respective responsibilities of authority and owner in
this matter.




                                          66
                    13. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTIPLE DWELLINGS




13. Design of plumbing systems
    for multiple dwellings

A multiple dwelling is a building housing several families or individuals in
discrete units. The term includes apartment buildings, tenements, hotels, barracks,
nursing homes and boarding schools. The common factors are that their prime
purpose is for habitation, at least parts of their plumbing systems are in commu-
nal use and they are supplied by the normal pressure in the public mains.
   The basic types of fixture will be the same as those dealt with under single
dwellings – water closets, baths, showers, sinks and washbasins. However, other
fixtures may be introduced, such as drinking fountains, laundry appliances and
urinals. Health hazards are similar to those already described, but the risks are
intensified by the possibility of cross-contamination of the drinking-water
supply of one resident through the carelessness or unsanitary actions of another.
Health precautions must therefore be similar to, but more stringent than, those
already described for single dwellings.
   The design of every plumbing system, and the capacity and dimensions of its
component parts, should be adequate to satisfy immediate needs and those that
can be reasonably anticipated during its expected life, based on the unit demands
listed in Table 11.1. Whenever water flows in a pipe there will be some resistance
to its flow as a result of its viscosity and also friction between the flowing water
and the walls of the pipe. This resistance is related to the velocity of flow, the
roughness of the piping material and the diameter of the pipe. In single dwellings
the resistance to flow in water and drainage pipes will be very small, provided
pipes of recommended diameters and materials have been installed. The
pipework in multiple dwellings is more complex and resistance to flow must be
taken into account when designing the system to accommodate the high rates of
flow that will occur when several plumbing fixtures are being used simultane-
ously.
   In a single dwelling, when a bath is being filled at the same time as a water
closet flush tank only a minor reduction in flow will result. In a multiple dwell-
ing there is a possibility that many different fixtures will be operated simultane-
ously, and this could have more serious effects: some fixtures may receive no
water at all, and the drainage system may become temporarily overloaded.
Various strategies can be employed to avoid this situation and are detailed else-
where in this document. Any authority expecting that a number of multiple
dwellings will be erected in its area of jurisdiction may well include one of these


                                             67
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



design methods in its plumbing code of practice or simply make reference to the
fact that special conditions apply to multiple dwellings.

13.1 Domestic storage tanks
The size of the water storage tank needed will depend on such factors as the
capacity and pressure of the public mains supplying the building, the probability
of an interruption of flow and whether a hot water and central heating system is
to be installed. It is generally considered good practice to have sufficient storage
for one day’s consumption.
   Water authorities usually specify the maximum height to which they can
consistently supply mains water, and water storage tanks may not be necessary
for buildings below the nominated height. However, where tanks are not in-
stalled an approved backflow prevention device should be provided in the in-
coming water service as near as possible to the stop valve within the building.
The backflow prevention device prevents contaminants being introduced into
the public mains by backpressure or backsiphonage. If a water tank for fighting
fires is installed, it should not be combined with the domestic water tank. This
precaution excludes the possibility of contamination of the domestic water storage.

13.2 Control valves
In multiple dwellings having units under separate occupation, control valves
must be inserted into the drinking-water supply system to enable each
separately occupied unit to be isolated from the remainder of the building. This
permits repairs or maintenance to be carried out in one dwelling unit without
interfering with the supply to other occupants. It also enables the water to be cut
off in a temporarily unoccupied apartment. In buildings such as hotels or board-
ing houses, especially where water closets or bathrooms are used communally by
a number of occupants, the need for separate control of each dwelling unit may
be less, but there should be sufficient valves to control relatively small groups of
fixtures or rooms.
   Some authorities require each fixture to be controlled by a separate valve in
multiple dwellings. This allows each fixture to be serviced or replaced without
shutting off any other fixture and minimizes risk of negative pressure and back-
siphonage whenever a substantial part of the system has to be shut down or
emptied.

13.3 Waste systems
Drainage from a multiple dwelling may be designed on the one-pipe, two-pipe
or single-stack principle. In the one-pipe system all wastes from water closets,
sinks, baths and other fixtures are collected together and conveyed to the
underground drainage pipes by common stacks. All branches are ventilated to


                                          68
                     13. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTIPLE DWELLINGS



protect the traps from positive or negative air pressure. In the two-pipe system
the wastewater pipes (carrying human sewage) and greywater pipes are kept
separate and discharged outside the building into gullies. Wastewater from
upper floors is conveyed to the gullies or trenches by vertical pipes from the fix-
tures and is carried to a back inlet gully. When vent pipes are omitted from the
one-pipe system, it is called a single-stack system. In the single-stack system, the
stack and the branches must be carefully designed to provide effective ventilation
within the stack and branches. The one-pipe system may be necessary in very
large and complex buildings or where there is the risk of frost damage.
   The contents of wastewater pipes should be collected into vertical stacks, the
lower ends of which are connected directly to underground drains. Junctions
between drains from different stacks should be made in covered access chambers
outside the building. If the numbers of drains is so large as to make junctions of
this nature impracticable, two or more drains may be combined into suitably
sized common drains. Each stack should usually be carried separately above the
roof to form a vent, unless special conditions make it necessary to combine the
upper ends of two or more stacks into a common ventilating stack. Careful plan-
ning of the building enables the number of stacks to be kept to the minimum by
grouping the water closets close together, and one above the other in buildings of
several storeys. The length of the outlet pipe between the fixtures and the stack
should be kept to a minimum in every case. Many authorities require that the
stack pipe is located outside the building for the reasons given in chapter 12. For
buildings such as hotels, where a large number of rooms have individual water
closets, it would be impracticable to locate all of these pipes on exterior walls, so
a number of wells or shafts are often constructed within the building. They must
be accessible for cleaning, as this is the only way to keep them clear of rats and
cockroaches. Shafts must always be of sufficient size for repair work.
    Fixtures other than those carrying human wastes should have their trap out-
lets carried to the open air through an exterior wall where they drain either
directly to a gully or trench, or through a hopper head into a vertical pipe set over
a gully or trench, the outlet from which is connected to the underground drain in
an access chamber. However, it should be noted that hopper heads are no longer
acceptable in the United Kingdom or Europe, due to the unsanitary implication
of unhygienic water splashing directly to the atmosphere. Should the number of
fixtures be so large as to make individual discharges of this nature impracticable,
the outlets may be combined into suitably sized common outlets, discharging
either to the open air as described or into stacks conveying waste-water only.
When fixture outlets are combined in this way each outlet should be separately
ventilated to protect against evaporation of the liquid in the trap seal.
   Ventilation gases may be exhausted to the open air by means of ventilation
pipes. These are separate short lengths of 25 millimetres (1 inch) diameter pipe
– some codes of practice provide for a minimum vent pipe size of 40 millimetres


                                              69
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



(1.5 inches) – terminating in a wire grating or mosquito gauze capping outside
the exterior wall. Alternatively, the ventilation pipes from the fixture drains close
to the downstream side of each trap may be combined and carried upward to a
waste stack at a point above the highest connection carrying liquid waste to the
stack.




                                          70
                  14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS




14. Design of plumbing systems
    for multi-storey buildings

For plumbing purposes, the term “multi-storey” is applied to buildings that are
too tall to be supplied throughout by the normal pressure in the public water
mains. These buildings have particular needs in the design of their sanitary
drainage and venting systems. Water main supply pressures of 8–12 metres (25–
40 feet) can supply a typical two-storey building, but higher buildings may need
pressure booster systems. In hilly areas, the drinking-water supply pressures
will vary depending on the ground elevation. In these cases, the water authority
may have to specify areas where particular supply pressures can be relied upon
for the design and operation of buildings. Where a building of three or more
storeys is proposed a certificate should be obtained from the drinking-water
supply authority guaranteeing that the present and future public drinking-water
supply pressure will be adequate to serve the building. If the public water
pressure is inadequate, suitable means shall be provided within the building to
boost the water pressure.

14.1 Systems for boosting water pressure
Pressure-boosting systems can be of several different types:
  • pumping from a ground level or basement gravity tank to a gravity roof
    tank;
  • pumping from a gravity storage tank or public water main into a hydro-
    pneumatic pressure tank that uses captive air pressure to provide adequate
    drinking-water supply pressure;
  • installation of booster pump sets consisting of multiple staged pumps or
    variable speed pumps that draw water directly from a gravity storage tank
    or the public water main. Multistage booster pump sets typically include
    discharge pressure regulating valves to maintain a constant drinking-water
    supply pressure.
Written approval should be obtained from the appropriate authority before any
pump or booster is connected to the supply. Where booster pump sets are
permitted to draw directly from public water mains, the public drinking-water
supply must be adequate to meet the peak demands of all buildings in the area.
Otherwise, there is a high risk of backflow and subsequent contamination of the
mains from buildings not equipped with a booster pump. Building booster


                                             71
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



pumps are not a solution to the problem of inadequate drinking-water supply.
Where public drinking-water supply systems are overburdened and cannot pro-
vide adequate pressure on a continuous basis, water must be stored on site during
periods when adequate pressure is available to fill a gravity storage tank. The size
of the storage tank will vary according to the daily water demand of the build-
ing, and the availability of adequate pressure available in the public water mains.
It should not be excessively oversized to avoid stagnation due to inadequate
turnover.
   Multi-storey buildings can usually be divided into zones of water pressure
control. The lower two to three storeys can generally be supplied directly from
the pressure in the public water main. Upper storeys, usually in groups of five to
eight storeys, can be supplied from pressure-boosted main risers through a
pressure reduction valve for each group. Systems can be up-fed or down-fed.
Up-fed systems usually originate from a pressure booster pump set or hydro-
pneumatic tank in the basement of the building. Down-fed systems usually
originate from a rooftop gravity tank. Where a building is divided into water
pressure zones, care must be taken not to cross-connect the piping between two
or more zones. This is a particular problem when domestic hot water is recircu-
lated from a central supply system.
   Where hydropneumatic tanks are used for storage, the tank is filled to one
third to a half full by a float level device that controls the drinking-water supply
source (a well pump or pressure booster pump). The pressure is maintained at the
desired operating level by an air compressor. As the building uses water from the
tank, the water level and air pressure drop. When the water level drops to the
“on” setting of the float level control, the well pump or booster pump starts and
raises the water level in the tank to the “off” level. This restores the pressure in
the tank. If some of the captive air above the water has been absorbed by the
water, the air compressor starts and restores the air charge, raising the system
pressure to the normal level. Hydropneumatic tanks are typically made of steel
or fibreglass and must be rated for the system operating pressure. Steel tanks
must have a protective coating of suitable composition for drinking-water
contact on the inside to protect the tank from corrosion and avoid contaminating
the water. They should be checked on a regular basis to ensure that the protective
coating is intact and the water remains potable.
   Smaller hydropneumatic tanks can also be used to help control pressure
booster pumps, allowing them to be cycled on and off by a pressure switch. The
captive air within the tank keeps the system pressurized while the pump is off.
When the water pressure drops to the “on” pressure setting, the pump starts and
raises the volume and pressure of the water in the tank. No air compressor is
needed where tanks have a flexible diaphragm between the air and the water in
the tank, charged with air at initial start-up. The size of pressure tanks for
booster pumps must match the capacity of the pump and the peak system


                                          72
                    14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



demand so that the pump “off” cycle is longer than the “on” cycle and the pump
does not cycle too frequently.

14.2 Drainage systems
14.2.1 Drainage system considerations
In the drainage system for a multi-storey building, the drains from the plumbing
fixtures are connected to vertical drain stacks that convey the waste and sewage
to below the lowest floor of the building. The fixture drain traps must be vented
to prevent their water trap seal from being siphoned by negative pressure or
blown out by positive pressure in the drain piping. The fixture vent pipes must
extend through the roof to outdoors. They can be run individually or be
combined into one or more vents through the roof. Where buildings are over 10
storeys high, the drainage stacks require relief vent connections at specified
intervals from the top, and connected to a vent stack that terminates above the
roof. This relieves and equalizes the pressure in the drainage stack to maintain
the water seal in traps serving plumbing fixtures.
   Wherever possible, the sanitary drainage system from a building should
discharge to the public sewer by gravity. All plumbing fixtures located below
ground level should be pumped into the public sewer or the drainage system
leading to the sewer. The pump line should be as short as possible and looped up
to a point not less than 0.6 metres (24 inches) above ground level to prevent back-
siphonage of sewage. The pump discharge rate should be controlled so as not to
cause scouring of the internal bore of the pump line or the drainage or sewer
system into which it discharges. High-velocity discharge rates may also cause
the flooding of adjoining plumbing fixtures or overloading of the sewer itself.
The sump pits for sewage pumps must have sealed covers, be vented to outdoors
and have automatic level controls and alarms. Sewage pumps in multiple dwell-
ings and in multi-storey dwellings should be duplex, with each pump having
100% of the required pumping capacity for the building. Alternatively, an
approved vacuum drainage system may be considered.

14.2.2 Vacuum drainage systems
In a vacuum drainage system, the differential pressure between the atmosphere
and the vacuum becomes the driving force that propels the wastewater towards
the vacuum station. Table 14.1 provides a summary of the advantages and disad-
vantages of vacuum drainage systems. Table 14.2 provides information on
specific installation and operation requirements. Vacuum drainage systems
should be considered when one or more of the following conditions exist:
   • water shortage;
   • limited sewerage capacity;
   • where separation of black water and greywater is desired;
   • where drainage by gravity becomes impractical;


                                               73
                                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



TABLE 14.1 ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF VACUUM SYSTEMS (VERSUS GRAVITY SYSTEMS)
Advantages                                                   Disadvantages

Low installation costs                                       High component costs
Environmentally safe                                         Mechanical components – possibility of failure
Electrical power only required at vacuum station             Skilled design, installation and maintenance required
Always self-cleansing                                        Regular maintenance required
No possibility of vermin in pipelines                        Standby facilities required
Possible water-saving technique if vacuum toilets used       Require area for situation of vacuum tanks and vacuum
High water velocities prevent deposits in pipework              generation equipment
Minimal risk of leakage                                      High-velocity water may cause transient plumbing noise
Can use small-diameter lightweight pipes that can
   be installed without a continuous fall
Vertical lifts are possible
Ability to easily separate greywater and black water
High turnaround time – no need for cistern to refill
   for subsequent flushes




TABLE 14.2 COMPARISON OF INSTALLATION AND OPERATION REQUIREMENTS OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
Parameter                  Conventional (gravity)          Conventional (pumped)         Vacuum

Pipe size (mm)             Branches 32–100                 Branches 32–100               Discharge from valves 32–50
                           Stacks 100–150                  Stacks 100–150                Service connection 38–90
Pipeline gradient          To a fall                       To a fall                     Flexible arrangements, with
                                                                                         minimal gradients or saw
                                                                                         tooth profile. Vertical upward
                                                                                         flow sections lifts can be used
Maintenance                Negligible, only after          Regular planned               Regular, planned servicing of
requirements               abuse or blockage               servicing of pumps and        pumps and interface units
                                                           interface units
Energy requirements        At time of installation         At time of installation and   At time of installation and
                                                           throughout lifetime of        throughout lifetime of
                                                           building                      building
Retrofit or extension of   May be difficult to accom-      May require additional        Flexible layout makes instal-
system within building     modate pipework and falls       pumps                         lation simple
Conventional water         7.5 litre flush WC              7.5 litre flush WC            NA
consumption WCs
Low water                  6 litre flush WCs               6 litre flush WCs             1.5–3 litre flush vacuum
consumption WCs                                                                          toilets
Loading of sewerage        Dependent upon                  Dependent on pumping          Discharge from forwarding
system                     appliances installed            rate                           pumps can be timed to
                                                                                         coincide with low-flow periods
NA: not applicable.
Source: BRE 2001 (p. 3).



                                                            74
                   14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



  • in penal installations where isolation and control of the appliances is neces-
    sary to prevent concealment of weapons and drugs;
  • unstable soil or flat terrain;
  • where a high water table exists;
  • in hospitals, hotels, office buildings or other areas where congested usage
    occurs, and flexibility in pipe routing is required to drain appliances;
  • restricted construction conditions;
  • building refurbishment.
When conventional gravity drainage systems are extended, as in refurbishment
work, the existing gravity drainage system can be fed into the vacuum drainage
system. This may be achieved by the use of a sump into which the wastewater
from the gravity system drains. When sufficient water has accumulated in the
sump, an interface valve will open allowing the wastewater to enter the vacuum
drainage system. This arrangement can also be used to collect rainwater or as an
interface between a building with conventional drainage and a vacuum sewer.
   The collection arrangements and the small-bore pipework of vacuum drain-
age systems provide the possibility of easily separating greywater and black
water. This would be of particular advantage if sewerage capacity was limited, as
the greywater could be run to a watercourse after appropriate treatment.

14.3 Hot water and other dual supply systems
Dual drinking-water supply systems are those in which two different grades of
water are available in separate piping systems. An example is the provision of a
tap at a sink supplying water directly from the incoming water service while all
other fixtures are fed from a storage tank. In developed countries, the most
common is a secondary system of piping carrying hot water to sink, washbasin
and bath. Occasionally a water softener is installed to treat part of a domestic
system, but apart from these cases dual drinking-water supply systems are rarely
found within single dwellings. An approach to water conservation being
introduced in some communities is to recycle greywater to an outside tap for
irrigation uses. A principal concern of all dual systems is the assurance that no
cross-connections have occurred during installation or repair.

14.3.1 Hot water systems
Correct installation of non-return devices will prevent hot water from entering
the cold water system in the event of an interruption of pressure. Regulations
controlling the delivery of hot water from a hot water vessel may require tem-
pered or thermostatically controlled water in all ablution areas, aged persons’
homes, hospitals, schools and other public places, and use of thermostatically
controlled mixing valves is encouraged where practicable. The acceptable tem-
perature of hot water systems at the tap should be determined in concert with
public health officials. To avoid scalding, especially of children, and in hospitals


                                              75
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



and aged persons’ homes, lower temperatures may be necessary. On the other
hand, growth of Legionella organisms is reduced at temperatures above 50 ˚C,
and this is a particular concern in hospitals and other large buildings such as
hotels (see sections 3.1.4 and 3.3.1) (IPHE 2005).
    Buildings such as hospitals, hotels, multiple dwellings and schools require
large quantities of water to be heated, stored and distributed. Heating is usually
carried out by a separate boiler, a steam coil or a heat exchange from a central
heating or other system, and the temperature is normally controlled to within
fairly narrow limits, 60 °C being an average temperature setting in some coun-
tries. Thermostatic devices should be installed to cut off the incoming heat
source should the water in the storage vessel become excessively hot, and
pressure relief valves should also be provided. Both these safety devices should
be set in such a way that audible or visible warning is given whenever they come
into operation. Heating and storage vessels should be clearly marked with their
safe working pressure limits, and gauges should be fitted to enable a regular
check to be made that those limits are being observed. Water heaters for the
supply of hot water should always be installed strictly in accordance with the
manufacturer’s written instructions.
    For reasons of safety, the water heater must be fitted with a combination
temperature and pressure relief safety valve at the top of the unit prior to the
commissioning of a mains or high-pressure water heater. To achieve this, a
pressure relief safety valve must be fitted in the inlet or cold drinking-water
supply pipework. The temperature and pressure settings of the respective safety
valves should be specified by the manufacturer in accordance with the design
capabilities of the specified water heater. The pressure setting for the pressure
relief valve should be lower than the pressure setting for the combination
temperature and pressure relief valve so that as the water heats up in the storage
vessel and expands, the additional or excess volume is gently expelled from the
lower and colder section of the water heater through the pressure relief safety
valve. Where the available drinking-water supply pressure exceeds the upper
limits of the pressure relief safety valve it is necessary to install a pressure
reduction valve, appropriate to the pressure ratings involved, immediately after
the isolation valve to the water heater and before the non-return valve. In some
cases, it may be preferable to lower the drinking-water supply pressure to the
whole system to avoid pressure imbalance in the hot and cold drinking-water
supply systems. In these cases, the pressure reduction valve could be installed in
the cold drinking-water supply pipework before it enters the building.
    Low-pressure water heaters must not be pressurized beyond normal localized
atmospheric conditions within the operating parameters of the manufacturer’s
specification. Equalizing the drinking-water supply pressure in a particular
fitting (such as a shower) with the whole system is a little more complicated but
it can be done by taking off a dedicated cold water service line from the


                                         76
                    14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



drinking-water supply tank to the heater unit. Depending on the capacity of the
cold water distribution system, a separate supply tank may be required to avoid
depleting the dedicated cold drinking-water supply tank serving the hot water
system. The hot water system that is not considered potable should never be
allowed to enter the cold water cistern (see section 12.2).

14.3.2 Other dual supply systems
Multiple dwellings and multi-storey buildings may have fire protection systems
such as sprinkler variety systems or high-pressure mains and hydrants. Indus-
trial and commercial establishments may have one or more systems of piping.
These may carry cooling or process water from a secondary source or mains
water that has been specially treated for the purpose.
   When one component of the dual system has been derived from another
source, or when it carries mains water that has been treated, heated or stored, it
is essential that the non-mains component is not allowed to reconnect with the
mains water. Drinking-water supply systems should be designed, installed and
maintained so as to prevent contaminants from being introduced into the drinking-
water supply system. Water of drinking-water quality should be supplied to
plumbing fixtures or outlets for human consumption, bathing, food preparation
and utensil or clothes washing. Where water supplied from one source is con-
nected to another water source, an appropriate backflow prevention device should
be fitted and the installation should be registered with the water supplier.
   Systems that permit the introduction of any foreign substance into the water
service should not be connected directly or indirectly to any part of the drinking-
water supply system. This includes systems for fire protection, garden watering
and irrigation, or any temporary attachment to the water service. This can only
be done with backflow prevention and cross-connection control devices.
   Combined tanks storing potable water alongside water for other purposes
should have a double partition wall installed internally to separate the two
supplies. The space between the partition walls should be arranged to ensure that
any leakage cannot enter the other compartment of the tank. To achieve this, an
external drainage point should be provided from the bottom of the void or space
so that any discharge or leak is readily noticed.

14.4 Water storage vessels
Separate water storage vessels are an integral part of many dual supply systems.
This section deals with requirements for the storage of water supplied from the
water main or other drinking-water sources. In the design of these systems, it is
important to ensure that the required air gap is established between the drinking-
water supply inlet and the overflow spill level of the fixture.
  Water storage tanks are appropriate for use in the following circumstances:



                                               77
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



  •   sanitary flushing
  •   supply of drinking-water
  •   firefighting
  •   air-conditioning
  •   refrigeration
  •   ablutions
  •   prevention of cross-connections
  •   make-up water
  •   contingency reserve.
Requirements relating to installation and protection of water storage tanks:
  • Tanks must be installed on bases, platforms or supports designed to bear
    the weight of the tank when it is filled to maximum capacity, without undue
    distortion taking place.
  • Metal tanks (and other tanks when similarly specified) should be installed
    with a membrane of non-corrosive insulating material between the support
    and the underside of the tank.
  • Tanks must be supported in such a manner that no load is transmitted to
    any of the attached pipes.
  • Tanks must be accessible for inspection, repairs, maintenance and replacement.
  • Tanks must be provided with a cover, designed to prevent the entry of dust,
    roof water, surface water, groundwater, birds, animals or insects.
  • Insulation from heat and cold should also be provided.
  • Tanks storing potable water should not be located directly beneath any
    sanitary plumbing or any other pipes conveying non-potable water.
Requirements relating to access to water storage tanks:
  • Adequate headroom and side access must be provided to enable inspection,
    cleaning and maintenance of the interior and exterior of the tank.
  • Where the interior depth of any storage tank exceeds 2 metres, access ladders
    of standard design should be installed and entry safety codes complied with.
Requirements relating to materials used in water storage tanks:
  • The internal surfaces of tanks should be coated with a protective coating
    approved for drinking-water contact applied in accordance with the manu-
    facturer’s instructions if the tank is to supply drinking-water.
  • Storage cylinders should be made of non-corrosive material.
  • Tanks, pipes, heating coils and related fittings should all be of a similar
    metal to prevent electrolysis, which is more likely to cause corrosion in hot
    water systems than in cold.
  • If steel is used for the tank and piping, it should always be heavily
    galvanized.



                                         78
                  14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



14.5 Labelling and colour coding of non-drinking-water supply systems
Where the alternative supply is a non-potable drinking-water supply, it needs to
be clearly and permanently labelled “Caution – not for drinking” at every outlet.
Exposed piping must be identified by colour coding (lilac) and permanent
markings or labelling. The use of the lilac (light purple) colour on pipes and
outlet points has been adopted in some countries to warn that the contents being
conveyed within are not for drinking purposes. In the United Kingdom
greywater colours are green-black-green, and reclaimed water pipe colours are
green-black-green with an additional white band in the centre.
   Where the non-potable alternative supply is installed below ground, the
service should have a continuous marker tape stating that the pipe below is a
“Non-potable drinking-water supply – not for drinking”. The marker tape
should be installed in the trench immediately above the service. Where piping
conveys water downstream from a high or medium hazard, the backflow
prevention device shall be clearly and permanently labelled “Caution – not for
drinking” along its length. To further assist in identification, outlet points or
taps should be painted or coated lilac and a label or sign should be fixed or
erected immediately adjacent stating “Caution – not for drinking”.
   The level of potential cross-connection hazard rating should be classified by
use of a method that allows easy identification of the risk level. A commonly
used approach is to classify the contained fluids according to levels of risk from
1 (no risk or minimal risk) to 5 (highest risk).
Fluid category 1. Drinking-water supplied by the authority and complying with
the plumbing code of practice.
Fluid category 2. Water in fluid category 1 whose aesthetic quality is impaired
due to change in temperature or the presence of substances or organisms causing
a change in taste, odour or appearance. This includes water in a hot water distri-
bution system.
Fluid category 3. Fluid that represents a slight health hazard because of the
concentration of substances of low toxicity. This includes any fluid that contains
copper sulfate solution or similar chemical additives and sodium hypochlorite
(as found in chlorine and common disinfectants).
Fluid category 4. Fluid that represents a significant health hazard because of the
concentration of toxic substances. This includes any fluid that contains chemical
or carcinogenic substances or pesticides (including insecticides and herbicides)
and organisms that pose a potential risk to health at concentrations sufficiently
above drinking-water standards or guidelines.
Fluid category 5. Fluid that represents a serious health hazard because of the
concentration of pathogenic organisms or radioactive or very toxic substances.



                                             79
                                   HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



This includes any fluid that contains faecal material or other human waste,
butchery or other animal waste, or pathogens from any other source.

14.6 Situations where there is a risk of cross-connection
There are recognized risks of cross-connection in agricultural and horticultural
properties, catering and allied trade installations, domestic installations, health
and sanitary service installations, and in industrial and commercial installations.
The level of protection required should be determined by identifying the haz-
ards within the premises, then working upstream from each hazard. The water
must be regarded as non-potable until a backflow prevention device is provided
suitable to the degree of the rated hazard. If a cross-connection has been
detected, the pipe system should be taken out of service, flushed, cleaned and
disinfected, and the water tested and determined to be safe before it is put back
into service. When assessing a potential backfIow condition, consideration must
be given to the complexity of piping, the possibility that the piping configuration
has been altered and the possibility that negligent or incorrect use of equipment
has resulted in a backflow condition. The following summarizes the main risks
in each of these situations.

14.6.1 Agricultural and horticultural properties
In market gardens, poultry farms and dairy farms there is a risk of cross-
connection between the water service and dam water, drinking nipples, fogging
sprays, irrigation pipes, antibiotic injectors, cleansing injectors, vertical sprays
for vehicle washing or any submerged outlet or hose at tanks or feed troughs.

14.6.2 Catering and allied trade installations
In commercial kitchens, hotels and clubs there is a risk of cross-connection
between the water service and water-cooled refrigerant units containing methyl
chloride gas or any submerged outlets or hoses that connect to glasswashers and
dishwashers, bains-marie, food waste disposal units, garbage can washers, ice-
making machines or refrigerators, or hoses supplying water to sinks or other
receptacles.

14.6.3 Domestic installations
In domestic installations, there is a risk of cross-connection of the water service
to a haemodialysis machine, bidet, water-operated venturi-type ejectors
attached to garden hoses when used to empty or clean out wastewater pits,
septic tanks, gullies or trenches, storm water sumps, domestic grease traps, or
any submerged outlets, or discharge point of the water service in sanitary flush-
ing cisterns, garden hoses supplying water to swimming pools, ornamental
ponds, fish ponds, hose taps below the flood level rim of any fixture, or located
below ground surface level.


                                                 80
                     14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



14.6.4 Health and sanitary service installations
These installations include the following risks of cross-connection:
   • council sanitary depots: cross-connection between the water service and
     sanitary pan washers, truck washers and pan-dumping machines;
   • dental surgeries: any submerged outlets of the water service connected to
     chair bowls and venturi-type water aspirators;
   • funeral parlours: in embalming areas, the cross-connection between the
     water service and water-operated aspirator pumps;
   • hospitals and nursing homes: submerged outlets of the water service at bed
     pan washers, bed bottle washers, sterilizers, steam autoclaves, instrument
     washers, and any cross-connection between the water service and steam
     pipes, steam boilers or steam calorifiers;
   • mortuaries: postmortem areas, submerged water service outlets at autopsy
     tables, flushing rim floor gullies or trenches, specimen tables and instru-
     ment-washing sinks.

14.6.5 Industrial and commercial installations
A common site of cross-connection relates to the use of tanks. Any submerged
discharge point of hoses or pipes that supply water to rinse tanks, process tanks
and other tanks may pose a cross-connection risk. The industries and commer-
cial installations that carry a risk of cross-connection in these installations
include the following:
   • abattoirs: cross-connection between the water service and steam pipes,
     steam boilers or steam calorifiers, and the washing sprays in contact with
     animal carcasses;
   • bleaching works: cross-connection between the water service and steam
     pipes, steam boilers, steam calorifiers, or any submerged outlets at revolving
     drum washers, or any pipes conveying non-potable water;
   • breweries and cordial and soft drink plants: cross-connection between the
     water service and the contents of gas cylinders, steam pipes, steam boilers
     or steam calorifiers, or any submerged water service outlets at drum wash-
     ers, bottle washers or process tanks;
   • butcher shops: cross-connection between the water service and any water-
     cooled refrigerant units containing methyl chloride gas, or water-powered
     food-processing machines;
   • chemical plants: cross-connection between the water service and chemical
     pipelines, or the submerged water service pipe outlets at drum washers and
     process tanks;
   • dry cleaners: cross-connection between the water service and solvent
     stills;
   • dyeing works: cross-connection between the water service pipes and steam


                                                81
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



      pipes, foul water inlet sprays in process tanks, and any submerged water
      service pipe outlets at vats, tanks and colanders;
  •   engineering works: cross-connection between the water service and any
      steam boilers, diesel oil recirculating systems, recirculated cooling water for
      machines, testing pressure vessels, oil-cooling coils, pump priming, com-
      pressed air pipelines and venturi-type ejectors in vehicle maintenance pits;
  •   laboratories: cross-connection between the water service and any aspirator
      pumps, fume cupboards, stills, centrifuges, blood-testing machines, air
      scrubbers, test-tube-washing machines, animal feeding troughs, and high-
      pressure gas cylinders;
  •   laundries: cross-connection between the water service and any clothes-
      washing machines, starch tanks, soap-mixing vats, and recirculated hot
      water tanks;
  •   milk-processing plants: cross-connection between the water service and
      any steam pipes, steam boilers, steam calorifiers, or any submerged outlets
      at bottle-washing machines, milk can-washing machines, and process
      chilling tanks;
  •   oil storage depots: cross-connection between the water service and foam
      firefighting equipment;
  •   poultry-processing plants: cross-connection between the water service and
      any steam pipes, steam boilers, steam calorifiers, or any submerged outlets
      at feather-plucking machines, carcass-washing machines, offal boilers and
      process tanks;
  •   photographic developers: cross-connection between the water service and
      X-ray equipment, or any submerged outlets at tanks and rinse machines;
  •   plating workings: cross-connection between the water service and solvent,
      acid or alkali tanks, cooling coils, steam pipes, or any submerged outlets at
      tanks and rinse machines;
  •   tanneries: cross-connection between the water service and vats, drum
      process tanks or steam pipes;
  •   wool processors: cross-connection between the water service and lanolin
      centrifuges and head recycling coils, or any submerged outlets or hoses at
      vats, drums and tanks.

14.7 Fixture unit calculations for multiple dwellings
The fixture unit concept is a method of calculating drinking-water supply and
drainage piping requirements within large buildings where economies may be
made in construction costs. Theoretically all pipes should be of such a size as to
be capable of serving the fixtures to which they are connected when all other
fixtures in the building are being operated at the same time. In practice, the
chances of their simultaneous use are remote and the piping design criteria may
be relaxed to some degree.


                                          82
                             14. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR MULTI -STOREY BUILDINGS



   A fixture unit (f/u) value is assigned to each type of fixture based on its rate of
water consumption, on the length of time it is normally in use and on the average
period between successive uses. Some examples of fixture unit values assigned to
the most common fixtures are given in Table 14.3. When these are added their
total gives a basis for determining the flow that may be expected in a water or
drainage pipe to which two or more fixtures are connected. The total is then
reduced by a factor, usually in the order of 0.6 to 0.7, but depending upon the
margin of simultaneous use protection necessary under local conditions (Taylor
& Wood 1982).
   The total number of fixture units connected to each branch pipe is then added,
multiplied by the factor referred to above, and the result used to calculate the
flow in water or drainage pipes in accordance with tables such as the following
examples. If included in, or annexed to, a plumbing code, these tables should be
detailed for a larger schedule covering the whole range of fixture unit values to be
expected; examples may be found in various national codes.

TABLE 14.3 FIXTURE UNIT VALUES FOR SOME COMMON PLUMBING FIXTURES
Fixture                                            Fixture units

Bath or shower                                          2
Bidet                                                   2
Clothes washer (automatic)                              3
Drinking fountain                                       3
Kitchen sink                                            1.5
Urinal or water closet (with flush tank)                3
Urinal or water closet (with flush valve)               6
Washbasin                                               1
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 153).


From Table 14.4 the size of the water pipes may be calculated using normal
design principles (allowing for head loss, friction and other factors). Fixtures
using both hot and cold water (such as in baths and sinks) should be assumed to
take equal quantities of each for design purposes: a bath would be counted as one
fixture unit on the cold water system, and one fixture unit on the hot water.
Supply piping would be calculated accordingly, while the total figure of two
fixture units would be used to design the drainage piping.
   From Table 14.5 the size of internal and external drains may be calculated
according to the total number of fixtures discharging into each section, with the
proviso that underground drains shall not be smaller than 100 millimetres (4
inches) diameter, and that no internal branch or drain of less than 80 millimetres
(3 inches) diameter should carry the discharge of more than two water closets.
   An alternative to the fixture unit method for calculating flows is used in some
French-speaking countries. This method assigns individual flow values to each


                                                        83
                                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



TABLE 14.4 PEAK WATER DEMAND OF PLUMBING FIXTURES
              No. of fixture                  litres               US gallons                UK gallons
                  units                     per second             per minute                per minute

                    5                          0.23                     3.65                      3.04
                    10                         0.34                     5.39                       4.49
                    20                         0.54                    8.56                        7.14
                    50                         1.13                    17.94                      14.93
                   100                         1.67                    26.51                      22.07
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 153).


TABLE 14.5 MAXIMUM LOADS FOR HORIZONTAL FIXTURE BRANCHES AND BUILDING DRAINS OR SEWERS
     Diameter of drainpipe             Fixture branch                   Building drain or sewer
                                         Min. slope      Slope 0.5%     Slope 1%      Slope 2%        Slope 4%
                                         2% (1 in 50)     (1 in 200)    (1 in 100)    (1 in 50)       (1 in 25)
        mm               inches             f/ua              f/ua         f/ua          f/ua            f/ua

         32              1.25                1              —             —             —               —
         40              1.5                 3              —             —             —               —
         50              2                   6              —             —             —               26
         65              2.5                12              —             —             —               31
         80              3                  32              —             36            42              50
        100              4                 160              —            180           216             250
        150              6                 620              —            700           840            1000
        200              8                1400            1400          1600          1920            2300
a
  f/u = fixture units.
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 154).


fixture, multiplies the cumulative flow so obtained by a simultaneous use factor
obtained from a nomogram and curve, and selects pipe sizes by reference to
precalculated tables.




                                                          84
             15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS




15. Design of plumbing systems for
    industrial and temporary applications

15.1 Backflow prevention in industrial, commercial and institutional
     water systems
Any water piping installation where there is a possibility that a harmful
substance may gain access to a drinking-water supply must have a backflow
protection device installed. Various types of backflow protection are described
in this chapter. This topic is addressed in considerable detail in the Cross-
connection control manual (EPA 2003). Following are some examples of
installations that require backflow protection devices:
  • irrigation and watering systems where harmful chemicals can be siphoned
    back into the drinking-water supply system;
  • boilers and cooling towers where harmful water treatment chemicals can
    seep into the drinking-water supply system;
  • faucets that are installed below the overflow rim of bathtubs, sinks and
    lavatories or other plumbing fixtures;
  • water connections, water closets, urinals;
  • faucets and make-up lines to open tanks;
  • automatic drink-vending machines where there is a need to prevent carbon
    dioxide gas from getting into the drinking-water supply system;
  • hospitals, mortuaries and industrial facilities;
  • swimming pools and spa make-up water;
  • connections to private drinking-water supply systems;
  • locations where drinking-water supply hoses can be placed in contaminated
    water or sewage.
Dangers associated with hose connections are more insidious because precau-
tions against contamination depend on the user rather than the installer and
consequently are much more difficult to control.

15.2 Backflow and backsiphonage
Backflow is an unwanted flow of potentially contaminated water, used water,
industrial fluids or other substances from any domestic, industrial or institutional
piping system into a drinking-water system. The flow under these conditions is
in the reverse direction from that intended. Backflow is caused by a reverse
pressure gradient that, if not interrupted, will cause a flow of water back into the


                                               85
                                         HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



drinking-water system. This is sometimes referred to as a vacuum, which in
these circumstances means a pressure below that of the atmosphere. So in a water
distribution system a true vacuum is not necessarily the cause of backflow of
fluids; a small difference of pressure is all that is necessary to cause the reversal
of flow in any pipeline.
   Backsiphonage is an undesirable or reverse direction of flow caused by atmos-
pheric pressure differentials exerted against a pollutant liquid, forcing it towards
a drinking-water supply system that is under a lower pressure. When fluid is
siphoned out of a container through a piece of tubing, the fluid will flow up and
over the rim of the container and then down into a lower elevation. In a danger-
ous cross-connection, unwanted fluid may be sucked over into the drinking-
water line. It is not necessary for a true vacuum to exist in the system main for
this siphonage to occur; all that is required is a negative difference in pressure
and a section of tubing or pipe that is completely full of fluid.

15.3 Water system backflow protection devices
Protective devices are installed in order to minimize risks associated with the
operation of drinking-water supply and domestic sewerage systems. A vital role
of these devices is to prevent backflow or backsiphonage into the mains drinking-
water supply. This section describes the nature and operation of the most
common protective devices. The diagrams of the devices are from the 2000
Uniform Plumbing Code illustrated training manual published by the Inter-
national Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO 2000).
Air gap. This is a physical separation between drinking-water (the mains drinking-
water supply system) and other fluids.
Atmospheric or non-pressure-type vacuum breaker. This device is always
installed downstream from the shut-off valve. The air vent valve closes when
water flows in the normal direction. As soon as the water ceases to flow the air

FIGURE 15.1 ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER
                                         Vacuum




                                                  Atmospheric     Atmospheric                       Atmospheric
                                                    pressure        pressure                          pressure
 Disc

                               Flow just after                                   Disc in vacuum
        Disc in normal       vacuum is applied                                  breaking position
        flow position

Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 6).




                                                        86
                    15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



FIGURE 15.2 ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (NORMAL FLOW AND BACKFLOW CONDITIONS)




                       (A) Normal flow condition                                    (B) Backflow condition



Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 7).




vent valve opens, thus interrupting any possible backsiphonage effect (Figures
15.1 and 15.2). No hose should be attached to the device and run to a point of
higher elevation because the weight of the water in the hose will keep the relief
valve closed and the device will not provide the intended protection.

    CASE STUDY 3. CHLORDANE BACKFLOW OR BACKSIPHONAGE
    Approximately 11 litres of chlordane, a highly toxic insecticide, was sucked back (back-
    siphoned) into the water system of a residential area of a city. Residents complained that
    the water “looked milky, felt greasy, foamed and smelled”. The problem developed while
    water department personnel were repairing a water main. Meanwhile, a professional
    exterminator was treating a nearby home with chlordane for termite elimination.
    The workman for the exterminator company left one end of a garden hose that was
    connected to an outside hose bib tap in a barrel of diluted pesticide. During the water
    interruption, the chlordane solution was backsiphoned from the barrel through the
    house and into the water main. Fortunately, due to the obvious bad taste, odour and
    colour of the contaminated water, no one consumed a sufficient quantity to endanger
    health.
    Source: Adapted from EPA 2003 (p. 8).



Double check valve assembly. This consists of two internally loaded, specially
designed operating check valves. This assembly is fitted with a tightly closing
shut-off valve upstream and downstream of the check valves (Figure 15.3).
Pressure-type vacuum breaker. This device is designed to open with the aid of
a spring when the line pressure drops so that air will break a potential vacuum. It
includes a single check valve that closes at the cessation of normal flow (Figure
15.4).




                                                      87
                                            HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



FIGURE 15.3 DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLIES




Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 10).



FIGURE 15.4 PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER




Source: IAPMO 1997 (p. 176).




    CASE STUDY 4. BACKSIPHONAGE FROM A HOSE
    The water system of a small town had been contaminated with caustic sodium hydroxide.
    Residents were covered with tiny blisters after showering in their homes. One person
    complained of blisters on her head after she washed her hair and others complained of
    burned throats or mouths after drinking the water. Several persons received medical
    treatment at the emergency room of the local hospital. A possible source of the con-
    tamination was from a nearby chemical company that distributes chemicals such as
    sodium hydroxide. The sodium hydroxide is brought to the plant in liquid form in bulk
    tanker trucks and is transferred to a holding tank and then pumped into 208-litre drums.
    While washing the truck’s tank, the driver was adding the water from the bottom of the
    tank truck instead of the top, when the water main broke and sodium hydroxide back-
    siphoned into the water main ( Figure 15.5).
    Source: Adapted from EPA 2003 (p. 3).




                                                       88
                    15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



FIGURE 15.5 BACKSIPHONAGE ILLUSTRATION
                    Chemical bulk storage and holding tanks

                     Wa
                       ter
                           ser




                                                Hose with bottom fill
                            vic
                               e




                                                                                    Water main break
                                                                                       and repair




                                                    “Burned in the shower”

Source: EPA 2003 (p. 3).




                                                                89
                                                    HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



Reduced pressure principle device. This is an assembly of two internally loaded,
independently operating check valves, with a relief valve between the valves. It is
specifically designed to maintain a zone of reduced pressure between the two
check valves at all times, and has a tightly closing upstream and a tightly closing
downstream shut-off valve (Figure 15.6).


FIGURE 15.6 REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER
                          No. 1                     No. 1           No. 2                      No. 2
                         Shutoff                    Check           Check                     Shutoff
                          valve                     valve           valve                      valve




                                No. 1      No. 2                                     No. 4
                              Testcock   Testcock                                  Testcock
                                                                              No. 3
                                                     Relief                 Testcock
Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 12).



    CASE STUDY 5. SHIPYARD CROSS-CONNECTION
    The drinking-water system at a coastal shipyard became contaminated from incor-
    rectly connected water lines between ships at the pier and the shipyard. The cause of the
    problem was a direct cross-connection between the on-board saltwater fire protection
    system and the freshwater line connected to one of the ships at the dock. As a result, the
    on-board saltwater fire protection system, being at a greater pressure than the potable
    supply, forced the salt water, through backpressure, into the shipyard potable supply
    (Figure 15.7).
    Source: Adapted from EPA 2003 (p. 7).



Devices to protect sewerage systems. This category of devices aims to limit
unwanted contamination of domestic sewage outflow and to protect the envi-
ronment. Where possible, reclamation of useful waste materials for recycling
should be attempted. A large number of specialized protective devices of this
nature are now commercially available. Many of these promise to be more
efficient in the long run than the traditional devices illustrated here. The illustra-
tions for the grease trap, grease interceptor and grease and sand interceptor are
diagrammatic only. The size and design of these devices or apparatus is depend-
ent on the nature of the material to be treated, its temperature, the anticipated
flow rates involved and numerous other factors.



                                                               90
                     15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



FIGURE 15.7 SHIPYARD BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION



                                               Potable supply hose
                Shipboard raw water
                  pumping system



                                                                                          To washrooms


                                                                             Cafeteria drinking fountains
                                                                                and sanitation water
                              To washrooms
                                                            Reduced pressure principle backflow
                                                          preventers should have been installed at
                                                            dockside outlets and other locations
Source: EPA 2003 (p. 7).



Grease trap. This device is installed inside the facility, usually near the grease-
producing fixtures (Figure 15.8).


FIGURE 15.8 GREASE TRAP
             Flanged inlet                                                 Cleanout           Flanged outlet



                                                                                                     Pipe size
                                      Static water line

                                                                                      Surge control valve

         Flushing                                  Baffles
        connection                                                                           Drain connection

Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 16).




                                                                     91
                                                  HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



Grease interceptor. This type of device is usually installed outside the building
(Figure 15.9).


FIGURE 15.9 GREASE INTERCEPTOR

                                                                  20”                    18”
                                    Variable                      min

                                                                  30”

               Inlet                                                                                         Outlet

                                                                                        1’–10”




                                          1’–10” typical

Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 18).



Sand and oil interceptor. This device is used to prevent sand and oil from park-
ing areas getting into sewers or storm sewers (Figure 15.10).


FIGURE 15.10 PRECAST CONCRETE SAND AND OIL INTERCEPTOR




                                                                                        All fittings are 4” Cl pipe




                                                              Steel frame and plates for this interceptor are supplied separately.
                                                              To be cast in floor slab
                                                                         Cleanout

                                         4” Cl 1/4
                                           Bend
                                           Flow
                                           line



                              Longitudinal section
Source: IAPMO 2000 (p. 21).




                                                             92
              15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



15.4 Guidance for protective devices
Backflow prevention devices are classified as testable or non-testable for the
purposes of regulation. These devices can also be classified according to the
level of hazard involved.

15.4.1 Testable devices
Requirements for reduced pressure zone devices – high hazard:
  • must have free ventilation to the atmosphere for the relief valve outlet at all
    times;
  • must not be located in an area that may be subject to ponding;
  • must have the relief drain outlet located not less than 300 millimetres (12
    inches) above the surrounding surface;
  • must be located so as not to be subject to freezing;
  • must be tested and certified every year.
Requirements for pressure-type vacuum breakers – medium hazard:
  • must be located not less than 300 millimetres (12 inches) above the highest
    outlet;
  • must be ventilated to the atmosphere at all times;
  • must not be located in an area that may be subject to ponding or freezing;
  • must be tested and certified every year.
Requirements for double check valves – medium hazard:
  • must be located so as not to be subject to freezing;
  • must be tested and certified every year.
Testable devices should be tested annually to ensure they are operating properly.
The drinking-water supply authority or company should be able to register and
monitor all such devices using an inspection and maintenance report system.

15.4.2 Non-testable devices
Non-testable devices include atmospheric vacuum breakers, hose connection
vacuum breakers, vented double check valves, dual check valves, dual check
valves with atmospheric vent and single check valves. Non-testable devices do
not require annual reports. However, they should be regularly checked by the
owner-occupant to ensure that they are operating correctly.
   Requirements for atmospheric vacuum breakers:
  • must be located not less than 150 millimetres (6 inches) above the highest outlet;
  • must have no isolating valves located downstream of the vacuum breaker;
  • must not remain continuously pressurized for more than 12 hours in
    normal operation;



                                                93
                             HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



  • must be ventilated to the atmosphere at all times;
  • must not be located in an area that may be subject to ponding;
  • must be located in line, and be at least the same size as the supply and
    discharge piping.
Requirements for hose connection vacuum breakers:
  • must be located downstream of the isolation valve;
  • must not remain continuously pressurized with the water for more than 12
    hours in normal operation;
  • must be ventilated to the atmosphere at all times.
Requirements for vented double check valves:
  • must not be located in an area that is subject to ponding or freezing;
  • must have the vent port located not less than 300 millimetres (12 inches)
    above the surrounding surface so that the device is freely drained.
Requirement for dual check valves:
  • must be located in an area not subject to freezing.
Requirements for dual check valve with atmospheric vent:
  • must not be located in an area that is subject to ponding;
  • must have the vent port located not less than 300 millimetres (12 inches)
    above the surrounding surface so that the device is freely drained.
Requirements for single check valve:
  • must have an isolating valve installed upstream and adjacent to the device;
  • must be fitted in an accessible location;
  • must only be used in fire services.
Note: Single check valves are not deemed to be backflow prevention devices.

15.5 Guidance for sanitary waste systems
All human and domestic waste must be discharged to a public sewer, or a private
sewage disposal system containing a septic tank and proper seepage pits or dis-
posal field. Untreated human or domestic waste must not be discharged direct to
the ground or into waterways. All sanitary waste systems, whether discharged
to a public sewage treatment facility or to a septic tank and disposal system,
should contain domestic sewage only. All other waste should be pretreated or
processed. The following guidelines should be observed:
  • Industrial waste should be pretreated to remove harmful chemicals and
    heavy metals from the waste stream. The governmental authority should
    specify the pretreatment requirements.
  • Restaurants should have kitchen waste discharged through a grease trap or
    grease interceptor to remove grease from the sanitary sewer.


                                        94
            15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



  • Swimming pools, cooling towers and water displays should discharge into
    the sanitary sewer instead of the storm sewer.
  • Rainwater surface flows that become contaminated by contact with oil,
    grease or harmful chemicals should be pretreated if possible prior to being
    allowed to discharge into the storm sewer or waterway.
  • Industrial or laboratory waste discharge that may change the pH of the
    sewer system must be pretreated to neutralize the industrial waste stream
    so it does no harm to the waste treatment operation.
  • Nothing should be admitted into the public sewer that could damage,
    choke or clog the pipes, produce a flammable or explosive mixture, consti-
    tute a danger to the public or the authority’s workers or interfere with the
    sewer treatment process.
The sewer authority should consider the following factors when deciding whether
to accept an industrial waste:
  • What is the relation between the quantity of the effluent to be discharged
    and the quantity of sewage with which it will be mixed? If the effluent is
    diluted sufficiently it may be less harmful.
  • How complex is the process of treatment and what space and facilities are
    available at the factory site?
  • Are there other industries in the neighbourhood producing similar waste?
    There may be arguments in favour of combining the outflows and treating
    them together.
Some sewer authorities base their charges for receiving and disposing of industrial
waste on the quantity received and on the degree of treatment necessary. This
encourages larger factories to install their own treatment plants. However,
smaller companies may be unable to do this because of lack of space or of capital.
In areas where a particular industry is important to the community, it may be
better for the authority to accept waste and charge accordingly. When dealing
with commercial waste, the authority will also have to be guided by the nature,
quantity and strength of the effluent before deciding whether to receive it
untreated into the public sewers. Premises such as slaughterhouses, breweries
and dairies may at particular times discharge quantities of highly oxidized waste
that can upset the biological process at the disposal works unless special
precautions are taken. Under certain circumstances it may be necessary to
require that the waste is diverted to a holding tank and released at a steady rate
over a specified period of time rather than in sudden rushes or large batches.

15.6 Storm water drainage systems
Only clear, clean uncontaminated storm water drainage should be allowed into
a storm water drainage system or discharged into local waterways. Storm waters
containing deleterious substances should not be discharged into watercourses or


                                              95
                                 HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



surface water drainage. They must either be taken to the public storm sewer, or
must be treated on site to remove the offensive pollutants. These requirements
may, however, be incompatible in industrial and similar premises. For example,
rainwater falling on roads and paved areas should be separated from sewage to
prevent overloading of the sewerage system. It should be discharged to a ditch or
watercourse. However, if chemicals, oil or other spillage on the road is washed
into the watercourse, serious damage to fish and other wildlife may result.
Therefore, precautions should be taken to divert the initial flow into the sanitary
sewer and the overflow then can be discharged to the storm water drainage
system.

15.7 Temporary plumbing installations and connections
A plumbing hazard that is particularly difficult to control is a temporary instal-
lation for a particular purpose. Backflow and backsiphonage devices should be
installed as described in sections 14.5 and 15.3. Because these temporary instal-
lations are not part of a plumbing system or connected to conventional fixtures,
they are not subject to the requirement of plans submission, but they should be
subject to other controls. Such temporary installations can be more dangerous
than permanent systems, especially when they are not subject to the plumbing
code of practice construction and use requirements.

15.7.1 Temporary connections on building sites
One common purpose for a temporary connection is for provision of water
during building construction. Hoses from standpipes on building sites com-
monly deliver water into tanks of muddy water. A drop in mains pressure could
siphon the contents back into the public system. Hoses may also connect stand-
pipes to concrete mixers and provide water for various building processes.
Temporary latrines may be constructed with defective sanitary fixtures that are
illegally connected to the main.

15.7.2 Other temporary connections
Hoses or other temporary piping may constitute a danger in other circumstances,
such as at a petrol garage (gas station), farmyard, fairground, commercial garden
or pesticide applicator (especially when coupled to an insecticide sprayer), or
when cleansing a market or the interior of market vehicles. The plumbing
approval would cover the permanent system, possibly including a legitimate
external tap to which a hose may be connected, but normally the use of the hose
is not covered in the code of practice. One safeguard is an agreement between the
water authority and the owner that should specify the purpose of the hose or
temporary piping and assess the payment for the water used. Rules for sanitary
usage may also be incorporated into the permit or agreement.



                                            96
            15. DESIGN OF PLUMBING SYSTEMS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TEMPORARY APPLICATIONS



   All the water piping downstream of backflow protection devices is normally
classified as an industrialized water system. To protect workers from taking this
water for domestic use, each outlet in such industrialized water systems should
be clearly marked “Industrial water – do not drink”.
   Most widely used model plumbing codes of practice specify the use and type
of backflow prevention devices for specific applications. While every potential
cross-connection scenario cannot be covered by the plumbing code of practice,
the defined governing principles protecting the drinking water system are
usually specified.
   When writing a plumbing code of practice the authority should carefully
assess the applications of backflow protection devices to be expected in their area
together with any special hazards associated with them. The plumbing code of
practice can be framed comprehensively but without being overloaded with
inappropriate material. It is often better to restrict the code to basic principles
and reserve the right of the authority to impose conditions in special circum-
stances, rather than attempting to cover every possible situation in detail.




                                              97
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




16. Storm water drainage


There are three principal ways to dispose of rainwater from roofs, courtyards
and paved areas: storm water sewers, soakaways and collection in storage tanks.
Storm water sewers, which may in some cases consist of open channels, are more
common in urban or densely built-up areas, and they normally serve to take the
drainage from highways as well as from buildings.

16.1 Discharge into storm water channels or pipes
Where a storm water pipe or ditch exists within reasonable distance of the
property on a building site, the drainage from the roof and from any paved or
enclosed areas must be collected and discharged into the storm water pipe or
ditch. In many cases, the ditches or channels are laid alongside the road just
outside the boundary of the property and are the responsibility of the highway
authority, which may have its own connection requirements that should be
incorporated into the plumbing code of practice. For piped sewers, any connecting
drains will need to comply with requirements similar to those that apply to drains
carrying wastes to the soil sewer. The saddle or junction connection must be
made under the direction of a licensed plumber or qualified person and must not
obstruct the flow of the sewer or the drain. The drain itself must be laid to a self-
cleansing gradient and must be properly jointed to prevent the access of tree roots
or of the surrounding soil. However, the materials may not need to be of as high
a quality and the drain may not need to undergo a test for watertightness.
   Discharges into an open drainage channel may be through a pipe or through a
subsidiary channel. Care must be taken to prevent erosion and damage to the
channel lining. Subsidiary channels and pipes will usually be required to
discharge in the direction of flow of the main channel at a level above that of the
normal drainage flow. If the main channel is unlined and the discharge into it is
through a pipe, a protective concrete apron may be required at the point of
discharge. Subsidiary channels should be laid to a self-cleansing gradient, but
this, together with requirements relating to diameter, may be modified according
to soil conditions.
   Discharges into storm water sewers or channels must not contain any human
waste, sullage water or other substances that may cause a nuisance or injury to
health. In tropical countries having a long dry season, small discharges, such as a
drain from a single tap, may increase the risk of infestation because protozoans


                                          98
                               16. STORM WATER DRAINAGE



or other parasites may breed in shallow pools or waterlogged ground. Where a
channel or drain may remain virtually dry for perhaps months at a time small
discharges may cause considerable nuisance, especially if they contain deleteri-
ous matter such as oil or grease. The authority may make special provisions to
avoid this by requiring that a paved area where cars might be washed should be
provided with a petrol, sand or oil trap and plate separator.
   These dangers must be balanced against the desirability of dealing with clean
water discharges without requiring their being connected to human waste sew-
ers. Such instances as the drainage from air-conditioning units and of cooling
water from a dairy or small industry, or the hosing down of a warehouse floor,
should not call for disposal treatment, but the volume of water may be too great
to be dealt with by soakaways.

16.2 Combined sewers
Some sewerage authorities operate systems of combined sewers into which both
sewage and rainwater may be admitted. These systems were installed in the past
but are not currently recommended. Combined sewers are not economical
because much greater flows must be provided for in the sewers and in the sewage
disposal plant. These systems are also hazardous to health because storm over-
flows must be provided to handle heavy downpours. Those overflows are neces-
sary to relieve surcharge of the system at peak flows, and they may permit
untreated sewage waste to discharge into open watercourses.
   Combined sewers are rarely installed today, but they are often found in
congested areas of older cities where physical and financial constraints may
prevent the laying of a second system of pipes to carry off rainwater. Wastewater
authorities provide separate sewerage facilities for new developments, as every
additional connection to a combined sewer makes its ultimate replacement more
difficult and expensive.

16.3 Soakaways
Rainwater from sloping roofs must be collected in gutters and carried to ground
level by downpipes or downspouts. Flat roofs should be drained by vertical pipes
and the drainage should be conveyed by pipe to a surface water sewer or to a suit-
able soakaway. Except when a roof is thatched, gutters and downpipes or
downspouts should always be considered essential because they prevent roof
runoff falling from a height in concentrated sheets or streams, which can cause
erosion close to the foundations of the building. If guttering cannot be installed
a concrete path or apron should be laid immediately under the eaves, and should
be sloped to carry the water away from the foundations.
   The sizes of gutters and downpipes or downspouts will depend on the area of
roof to be drained, the slope of the gutter and the intensity of rainfall expected.
To insist on guttering capable of dealing with the worst storms would be


                                         99
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



unreasonably expensive in many areas, and would be of little overall benefit
when the entire surrounding ground was being subjected to a downpour. The
authority should calculate the average storm intensity expected and fix their
standards accordingly. Tables 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3 relate roof area, guttering slope
and storm intensity (Taylor & Wood 1982). These tables can be adapted to suit
local conditions. The capacity of a range of storm water drains is also shown, and
may be applied to the drains connecting the lower ends of the downspouts with
the surface water sewer.
    Whether or not the use of soakaways is a practical option will depend to a great
extent on the nature of the soil. Soakaways should be well clear of the building
foundations, and should consist of holes deep enough to penetrate the subsoil,
filled almost to the surface with hard material such as broken stone, concrete or
brick that will not soften when wet. Where the water table is high, it may be pref-
erable to use shallow ditches filled with hard rubble instead of soakaway pits.

16.4 Rainwater tanks
When rainwater is being stored for domestic use the tanks should be of water-
tight construction, covered with material that is weatherproof, insectproof and
verminproof, ventilated, and supplied with access for regular inspection and
cleaning. There are many standards throughout the world. For more technical
detail on this subject, please check your area for its standards. Rainwater storage
tanks are a valuable supplement to mains supplied in arid areas and may even
substitute for a mains supply. A system of gutters and collector piping must also
be watertight, and the contents must be protected against pollution from dust
and refuse blown by the wind, entry by birds and vermin, and mosquito breed-
ing. If the rainwater is supplementary to a mains supply it may be lifted from the
principal storage tank via a pump, from where it is piped to all fixtures. If there
is no mains drinking-water supply then water for all purposes will need to be
taken from the rainwater storage tank. Strict precautions should be observed in
such cases to maintain the quality of the stored water. A wash-out drain tap or
diverter should be included in the collector pipe so that the first washings of the
roof at the beginning of the rains can be run to waste (these washings will be
contaminated with bird droppings, windblown dust, etc.). It is at this time that
the storage tank should be given its annual cleaning, a process that is much easier
if the tank is built in two sections that can be emptied and cleaned in turn.

16.5 Rainwater intensity and roof drainage
The variable factors in selecting the size of rainwater guttering are:
  • the anticipated intensity of the rainfall;
  • the slope at which the gutters are to be fixed;
  • the area of the roof surface drained by each gutter.



                                          100
                                                 16. STORM WATER DRAINAGE



   From a practical point of view an upper limit of rainfall intensity must be
assumed. During downpours of higher than the assumed concentration, surplus
rainwater will overflow the guttering but will add comparatively little to the
general deluge. In Tables 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3 the maximum intensity has been
assumed to be 100 millimetres (4 inches) per hour – a high figure. In the code the
figures would be recalculated for an intensity that is realistic for local condi-
tions.
   The slope of the gutter will be limited by the vertical gap between the eaves
and the gutter at the lower end of the run. If this gap is much greater than the
diameter of the channel small discharges will be blown clear of the gutter by
quite moderate winds. A slope of 1% (0.125 inch per 1 foot run) may be taken as
an average, in which case an eaves length of 10 metres will result in a vertical gap
of 10 centimetres. Lengths well over this will require two or more vertical
downspouts with consequent increase in cost. In Table 16.1 the roof areas that
can be drained by gutters installed with slopes of 0.5%, 1% and 2% are shown
for purposes of comparison. This table can be adjusted to allow for other slopes
permitted under the code and can also be extended as needed to cover gutters of
larger diameters.


TABLE 16.1 GUTTER SLOPES AND ROOF DRAINAGE: RAINFALL INTENSITY 100 mm PER HOUR
                                                         Roof area drained with gutter slopes of:

    Guttering diameter                 0.5% (1 in 200)                1% (1 in 100)                  2% (1 in 50)
      mm         inches                 m²       ft²                   m²       ft²                 m²       ft²

       80           3                   16       170                   22       240                  32      350
      100           4                   33       360                   47       510                  67      720
      125           5                   58       625                   82       880                 116    1 250
      150           6                   89       960                  126     1 360                 178    1 920
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 156).



The area of roof to be drained is calculated on the basis of the horizontal
projection and not on the actual surface of a sloping roof. Table 16.2 shows the
maximum roof area that can be drained by five common sizes of vertical
downspouts or leaders when the rainfall intensity is 100 millimetres (4 inches)
per hour. These are suitable either to take the discharge from guttering or from
flat roofs drained directly into these leaders. The figures should be adjusted to
apply to discharges from storms of different intensity according to local
conditions and experience.




                                                              101
                                                  HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



TABLE 16.2 ROOF AREAS DRAINED BY VERTICAL DOWNSPOUTS: RAINFALL INTENSITY 100 mm PER HOUR
                 Diameter of downspouts                                    Roof area drained
                 mm                     inches                            m²                ft²

                  50                      2                               65                 700
                  65                      2.5                            120               1 300
                  80                      3                              205               2 200
                 100                      4                              430               4 600
                 150                      6                            1 255              13 500
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 157).


Table 16.3 shows the total roof area, the discharge from which may be conveyed
by horizontal drains (above or below ground) into which one or more vertical
downspouts are connected, and which may also serve to drain paved areas such
as courtyards. The same storm intensity has been assumed and three gradients
– 1%, 2% and 4% – have been tabulated. Again, amendments and extrapolations
should be made to suit local conditions or any requirements of the local code.


TABLE 16.3 CAPACITIES OF HORIZONTAL STORM DRAINS: RAINFALL INTENSITY 100 mm PER HOUR
                                                          Aarea to be drained witha slope of:

    Diameter of drains                   1% (1 in 100)               2% (1 in 50)                    4% (1 in 25)

      mm         inches                  m²         ft²              m²        ft²                  m²       ft²

       80           3                     75        820              110 1 180                      150    1 620
      100           4                    175      1 880              245 2 640                      350    3 770
      150           6                    495      5 350              700 7 550                      995   10 700
      200           8                  1 070     11 500            1 515 16 300                   2 135   23 000
Source: Taylor & Wood 1982 (p. 157).




                                                             102
          17. INTERMEDIATE AND COMMUNAL MODELS FOR DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION




17. Intermediate and communal
    models for drinking-water supply
    and sanitation
Plumbing codes usually require that every occupied building should have a
supply of drinking-water. A piped drinking-water system will require a sewer-
age system to dispose of the increased volume of wastewater that is generated.
Until these are achieved, “plumbing”, in the sense used in these guidelines, is
impossible. There are various intermediate stages between the use of an
unprotected natural source and the attainment of this goal. This includes situa-
tions where public drinking-water supply and waste disposal are only partly
available, and where cost or other constraints require the establishment of basic
communal sanitation facilities as an interim measure.

17.1 Intermediate types of drinking-water supply and sanitation
In a community with no public drinking-water supply service, the first improve-
ment that may be made is the provision of a safe water source such as a protected
well or protected spring. The second may be the provision of a handpump or
other device through which water can be delivered directly into a carrying con-
tainer. The next stage may be the establishment of a central point to which water
is pumped, and where it is stored and possibly chlorinated before being collected.
A further improvement comes when treated water is piped to public standpipes
close to the homes of those who will draw their water from them, or the piping
of water to a private standpipe within each property or compound. The final
stage before the installation of plumbing and plumbing fixtures is the installation
of a single faucet within the house, usually serving a kitchen sink.
   The foregoing service level is linked to likely quantities of water used and the
hygiene consequences of such use. Table 17.1 illustrates a ladder of services under
the perspective of distance and time to source.
   From a public health point of view, the crucial aspects to take into account
include the protection of the water source to prevent contamination, and provision
of access to water on individual properties, thus eliminating the need for carrying
household supplies and storing them within the home. In many cases the earlier
stages may be bypassed, such as when a complete new public drinking-water
supply is installed in a community that previously had no protected water source.
More commonly, economic constraints make it necessary to provide a somewhat
more restricted service initially so that the drinking-water supply is improved
incrementally in parallel with the community’s improving social conditions.


                                               103
                                             HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



TABLE 17.1 SERVICE LEVEL DESCRIPTORS OF WATER IN RELATION TO HYGIENE
Service level     Distance/time         Likely quantities                       Level of health
description       measure               collected                               concern

No access         More than 1000        Very low: often less than 5 litres      Very high as hygiene not assured and
                  metres, or 30         per capita per day                      consumption needs may be at risk.
                  minutes total                                                 Quality difficult to assure; emphasis
                  collection time                                               on effective use and water handling
                                                                                hygiene
Basic access      Between 100 and       Low: average is unlikely to exceed      Medium: not all requirements may be
                  1000 metres, or 5     20 litres per capita per day; laundry   met. Quality difficult to assure
                  to 30 minutes total   and/or bathing may occur at water
                  collection time       source with additional volumes of
                                        water
Intermediate      On plot, e.g. single Medium: likely to be around              Low: most basic hygiene and
access            tap in house or      50 litres per capita per day, higher     consumption needs met. Bathing and
                  yard                 volumes unlikely as energy/time          laundry possible on site, which may
                                       requirements still significant           increase frequency of laundering.
                                                                                Issues of effective use still important.
                                                                                Quality more readily assured
Optimal access Water is piped into Varies significantly but probably            Very low: all uses can be met, quality
               the home through above 100 litres per capita per day             readily assured
               multiple taps       and may be up to 300 litres per
                                   capita per day
Source: Howard and Bartram 2003.



It is important to emphasize the ultimate goal of providing on-plot water
supplies to every household, and to ensure that providing any intermediate level
of service is carried out with this ultimate goal in mind. For instance, mains laid
to public standpipes should not be of a size merely adequate to serve those
standpipes, but of sufficient carrying capacity to permit house connections to be
made later. Otherwise, the expense of replacement by larger diameter pipes in
the future will be an obstacle to the implementation of the next stage of
improvement.
   Where mains and sewers are planned to be installed in the near future, or
where water supplies but no sewers have been constructed, any private
intermediate arrangements should be so designed and installed as to be readily
adapted to comply with local codes of practice. This will ultimately be
advantageous to both the individual householder and to the authority having
jurisdiction. Connection to a future public supply is made easier and cheaper if
the internal piping and fixtures already comply with the relevant provisions of
the plumbing code. Similarly, drainage to a septic tank or cesspool should be so


                                                            104
          17. INTERMEDIATE AND COMMUNAL MODELS FOR DRINKING -WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION



designed and installed that it can be diverted to a future sewer from a convenient
access chamber with no alteration necessary other than the disconnection and
filling in of the disposal tank or cesspool.

17.2 Household water treatment
In the absence of access to a safe and reliable central water system, consumers
must make their own provisions to be assured of the safety of the water that they
use for drinking and food preparation. Several methods are available and more
are in development. They range from low-tech approaches like boiling to chemi-
cal disinfection using chlorine or iodine, various forms of sand or ceramic filters
and disinfection using sunlight. More sophisticated techniques include com-
bined coagulation and disinfection products, ultraviolet lamps and devices that
can disinfect, filter and remove chemicals and improve the aesthetic quality of
the water, and more expensive solutions like safe bottled water. Disinfection is
almost always essential. Water authorities should initiate these programmes and
work to ensure that a range of these technologies or systems are available, such
that consumers can choose what is acceptable, affordable and appropriate for
their household. As a minimum they should work to ensure that the training and
information that consumers need to make good decisions is available. Authori-
ties should also monitor these situations to be sure that the household treatment
is functioning successfully. It is always important that the water quality problem
is understood so that appropriate treatment methods can be selected if some-
thing beyond microbial control is a concern. It is also important that, where
appropriate, water treatment devices have been tested and certified to specific
claims and performance (Cotruvo 2005; WHO 2005). With recent research indi-
cating that household-based approaches to managing water are cost effective,
lead to significant diarrhoeal disease reductions and are rapidly deployable,
WHO has taken the lead in coordinating the International Network to Promote
Household Water Treatment and Safe Storage (WHO 2006b).

17.3 Communal systems for drinking-water supply and sanitation
Factors other than installation costs may delay improvements at an intermediate
stage. In densely populated or periurban slum areas, the cost of internal plumb-
ing might be greater than the value of the properties to be served. It might seem
logical in this case to halt drinking-water supply improvements at the public
standpipe stage pending the renovation and rebuilding of unsanitary housing.
However, waterborne infectious disease will not wait and it is those in vulnerable
circumstances that are most in need of facilities for safe drinking-water,
personal hygiene and clothes washing. In the interim, provision of communal
latrines, bathhouses and laundries may therefore be a reasonable strategy, their
expense being justified by the improvement in the health of the public as a whole,
as well as in the quality of life of the individuals who will use them.


                                               105
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



    A form of sanitation particularly suitable to crowded cities is the aqua privy,
consisting of a single underground septic tank upon which are built a number of
individual latrines. Outlets from the latrines drop vertically through the tank
roof and discharge under the surface of the septic liquid below. If properly
designed, constructed and maintained, an aqua privy can serve the needs of four
or more households, each having its own private cubicle containing a latrine.
Sewage is broken down and liquefied and the effluent liquid is comparatively
innocuous. However, under dense population conditions the removal of this
liquid may present a problem if the subsoil is impervious. A drainage system to
collect the effluent from a number of aqua privies may be constructed at a
fraction of the cost of sewers. Because only liquid is discharged and there is con-
sequently no danger of blockage, smaller pipe sizes may be used for the drains.
Accumulated solids either must be removed when the system is filled to capacity
or another site found, and the excavation suitably covered and backfilled.
    Plumbing in and for communal facilities needs to be more robust than that
installed on private premises. Precautions need to be taken in the design against
vandalism, theft and misuse. Brass faucets are particularly subject to vandalism
if they can be easily unscrewed: drilling a hole in the threaded union and fasten-
ing with a set screw or rivet is one security method. Standpipes and exposed
piping may be embedded in concrete, though this makes maintenance more dif-
ficult. High-level flushing cisterns and shower control valves may be mounted
above the ceiling with only the chain and handle visible in the cubicle. The seats
of pedestal water closet bowls can be made of sturdy wood, preferably open at
the front and fixed, rather than of hinged plastic. Control valves, whether below
ground or mounted in the building, are better enclosed in lockable boxes. Similar
considerations may govern the design of truly public facilities, like those erected
in markets or other public places.
    The plumbing of multiple latrines, bathhouses and laundries should comply
with the general principles of the plumbing code with regard to cross-connection,
backsiphonage and backflow. By providing each with its own storage tank, peak
use flows are evened out and economies may be possible in the delivery mains
and connections. In many arid areas, it is customary to provide storage at groups
of standpipes for the same reason.
    Above all, the maintenance of the installations will depend upon the coopera-
tion of those using them. Efforts to build a sense of communal ownership and
pride of possession are important so that cooperation is voluntarily given or
assured by peer pressure, and enforcement is therefore unnecessary. In this way,
communal sanitary facilities can be kept clean and working with the minimum
need for supervision and inspection.




                                         106
                18. CONSERVATION OF WATER IN PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC SUPPLY SYSTEMS




18. Conservation of water in public and
    domestic supply systems

All water, even wastewater, has value and it should not be wasted. The conservation
of clean water depends on minimizing wastage from leaks and reducing unnecessary
or excessive consumption. Some wastage appears to be inevitable in every drinking-
water supply system, and the term “waste prevention” is used here for measures
intended to reduce losses to a minimum. In this context, the term “waste” refers
to water that escapes from the system unused or unaccounted for, and not to
human wastes or other forms of used or degraded water that are carried away by
drains or sewers. There are cases where in the order of 60% of the distributed
water is unaccounted for, and not billed, due to leaks or non-metering.
   Wastage and leakage of water can occur from the public (mains) system or in
the private systems owned by individual customers. In the public supply system,
the best protection against wastage is the careful design and construction of the
mains, combined with an active programme of supervision and preventive main-
tenance and leak detection. In the private system, the main strategies are the
prompt correction of leaks, the use of technologies to reduce overuse, and public
education on water conservation, as well as metering and use of rate structures
that are a function of volume consumed versus block billing.
   While leaks in the public mains system can be minimized by systematic
inspection and maintenance by the authority concerned, it is more difficult to
trace and remedy leaks on private property. A relatively small (3 millimetres)
leak in a service pipe, or a dripping tap, under normal working pressure can
waste 340 litres (90 US gallons, 75 UK gallons) per day, the amount required to
supply the needs of a family of three. While leaks within private properties are
charged to the property owner, a multiplicity of leaks can compromise the
drinking-water supply system. Leakage and wastage on private property can be
minimized by the use of quality materials and workmanship in the installation
of plumbing systems, as well as promptly instituting repairs when needed.
   Leakage into drains (infiltration) can lead to the overloading of sewers and
sewage disposal works, with consequent additional expense to the sewerage
authority. The infiltration of storm water into wastewater disposal systems may
create health hazards. Measures must be taken to exclude materials that can
choke sewers, or those of inflammable, explosive, corrosive or toxic nature that
may be potentially dangerous to the public, or may interfere with the purifica-
tion process at the disposal works.


                                             107
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



   Leaking pipes significantly increase the vulnerability of pipelines to contami-
nation, especially where the supply is intermittent or the pressure fluctuation can
lead to infiltration of contaminated water into the distribution system.

18.1 Special problems associated with public buildings and
     communal accommodation
Public health authorities have a particular interest in the plumbing of buildings
used by large numbers of people, such as schools, lodging houses, hotels, public
baths, hospitals and transport terminals. Unsafe or inadequate water and waste
system plumbing in those establishments can lead to major outbreaks of infec-
tious disease. For this reason, sanitary fittings must be appropriate for the high
level of use and must be installed and maintained so as to minimize risks to
health. Special precautions are necessary on premises where food and drink are
processed, stored or served to the public.
   The responsibility for ensuring that public plumbing systems conform to
effective hygienic standards is primarily located with the drinking-water supply
authority and the body responsible for sewage disposal. The health authority has
the overall task of ensuring that these water and sewerage authorities take their
responsibilities seriously. The day-to-day supervision of new plumbing installa-
tions is often the responsibility of a local agency, the building control inspector,
whose prime duty is to ensure the stability of the particular premises in which
the plumbing system is installed, and the safety of its occupants. Supervision of
plumbing installations requires special knowledge and skill, so it is essential that
well-trained and conscientious plumbing inspectors are serving in those critical
functions.

18.2 Leakage and wastage in the public drinking-water supply system
No public supply is completely leakproof; not even the best-designed and care-
fully constructed system can remain absolutely watertight throughout its life.
An efficient public drinking-water supply authority will therefore maintain a
continuous programme of inspection and preventive maintenance to discover
and stop leakage for both financial and health reasons. Unaccounted-for water
represents a lost opportunity for the authority to earn income from the supply of
water. Leaks that allow water to flow out of the system can also provide the
means of entry for contaminants, which may in turn cause illness. A further
reason to maintain a continuous programme of inspection and timely implemen-
tation of repairs to the public drinking-water supply mains is that it sets an
example for the owners of private properties to maintain their own drinking-
water supply systems so as to minimize waste.
   Wastage below ground is difficult to detect and isolate and often expensive to
remedy. The best strategy is therefore to ensure that the drinking-water supply
systems are built to the highest possible standards. The selection of materials,


                                          108
                 18. CONSERVATION OF WATER IN PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC SUPPLY SYSTEMS



installation practices and workmanship in both public and private drinking-
water supply systems should all contribute to reducing the incidence of unseen
wastage. The usual procedure for tracing these leaks in the mains system is a
combination of district metering and inspection of the mains and services with a
leak detection system such as a listening device between midnight and dawn
when supply demands are low. This can be followed by the investigation of
suspect properties.

18.3 Leakage and wastage from private drinking-water supply systems
Leakage from piping systems within a building is usually self-evident because it
threatens to damage the building structure and internal walls and fittings. It is in
the interest of the owner of the property to have this remedied promptly,
especially since a leak can become progressively worse as the escaping water
increases the size of the orifice through which it emerges. In certain situations,
especially where water charges are not based on metered volumes of water used,
powers of enforcement may have to be used to compel those responsible to
undertake repairs.
   Another type of wastage is very difficult to control without the cooperation of
the building’s occupants, namely that due to leaking taps, valves or incorrectly
adjusted fittings in fixtures such as washbasins or toilet cisterns. Because the
wastewater is conveyed through the fixture to the drainage system or is discharged
through an overflow, it may cause no obvious nuisance within the building, and
therefore there is less incentive for the property owner to take action to fix the
leak. In large buildings, factories or high-density housing estates, the total
wastage due to this cause may be very considerable. The actual cost of replacing
worn washers and adjusting leaking fittings is minor once the leaks have been
identified. Because of this, some drinking-water supply authorities offer to carry
out simple remedial works or repairs free of charge to consumers, thus
encouraging them to report such faults at an early stage.

18.4 Use of meters to reduce wastage and excess consumption
Installation of individual water use meters in all properties is an important
strategy to encourage consumers to repair leaks promptly and to avoid excessive
use of water. Metering ensures that the cost of wasted water will be borne by the
individual consumer rather than by the public authority. This strategy is effective
in the case of large commercial and industrial premises and in large multiple
dwellings where there are facilities for inspection and repair by maintenance
staff. This strategy should also be applied to single dwellings, which usually
constitute the greatest part of the total demand for a drinking-water supply in
non-industrialized communities.
   Meters are an essential tool in the proper management of a water distribution
system. In many countries there is a trend towards private operation of water


                                              109
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



supplies or the corporatization of publicly owned water suppliers, which in turn
leads to full-cost accounting. Assistance to disadvantaged persons can then be
provided from the public purse rather than a system of implicit subsidy by
higher water users, such as hospitals, schools, sports grounds or industries.
   The provision and installation of meters does not represent the final cost of
their use. Meters have a limited life and are a continuously depreciating invest-
ment. Facilities for repair and calibration must be provided and a team of meter
readers and supporting clerical personnel must be supported, although remote
sensing systems have been developed that obviate the need for direct reading. In
some cases the cost of installation of meters in all domestic premises in a supply
area may be greater than the cost of supplying consumers with more water to
compensate for the wastage than might have been prevented by metering. How-
ever, the latter presupposes that not only is there unlimited low-cost source
water and the means to treat it, but also that there is adequate capacity for sewage
treatment of waste flows if the wastage is going to drains. It also assumes that
there is no risk of contamination if the leakage is from pipes. Many analysts con-
clude that the compensation for increased demand due to wastage by increasing
supply is at best a short-term fix. In addition, reducing wastage with meter use
may allow consumer demand to be met from the existing supply for a longer
time, therefore reducing the overall cost of water.
   If every connection to the main supply has its own meter, the meters can help
reduce the cost of supplying water by assisting with the identification of
unaccounted-for water, below ground leakage and excess usage. Underground
leakage through the mains and branches can be detected by comparing the
quantity of water entering a district or section of the mains system (through a
recording meter inserted in the mains) with the sum of the quantities registered
on the individual meters on outlets connected from that section of the mains
during the same period. Similarly, when individual meter readings are higher than
average, the property owner will become alerted and will be more likely to
identify the cause and take corrective action.

18.5 Minimizing systematic excessive and wasteful use of water
In a new drinking-water supply area, the entire distribution system may be
designed with the efficient use of the available water in mind, water pressures
may be regulated and maximum flows and capacities of plumbing fixtures regu-
lated by the plumbing code. In older systems there are a number of actions that
can be taken, but the first and most important is to secure the cooperation of
consumers through publicity, education and other forms of communication.
    In some instances it could be economical to fund the retrofit of water-saving
fixtures and flow controls in private connections so as to lower demand. These
costs may be less than the expenditure on infrastructure to increase supply.
Larger consumers may be persuaded to install devices to cut down water use if


                                          110
                 18. CONSERVATION OF WATER IN PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC SUPPLY SYSTEMS



free audits are provided to quantify and cost the potential savings. Use of flow
control valves and efficient shower heads should be encouraged, and consumers
should be made aware of the substantial additional savings in heating costs for
hot water that can be achieved. In establishments such as large factories, indus-
trial complexes, mining camps and hotels, where large numbers of people use
showers and handwashing facilities, the savings on energy by reducing the
demand on hot water generation will dramatically reduce the payback period for
expenditures on flow control valves and efficient shower heads.
   In domestic properties with flushing toilets the toilet may account for one
third of the daily household consumption of water. Low flush toilets that utilize
5 or 6 litres (1.5 US gallons) versus about 20 litres (5 US gallons) per flush are now
widely available. Washing, bathing and showering may account for an additional
one third of water used within the home. By regulating toilet flushing volumes
and the flow rates at washbasin taps and showers heads it is possible to conserve
up to half of this water without loss of amenity to the householder.
   Care is needed when regulating the flow rate of hot water taps and showers as
some of the instantaneous types of water heaters are flow regulated at the unit
and further flow reduction at the tap may be detrimental to the operation of the
hot water heater. Shower heads also require careful consideration, as fitting a
flow restrictor to a poorly designed shower head may reduce the amenity to the
user to such an extent as to cause the consumer to remove the restrictor and
return to higher flow rates. In multiple shower installations the risk of thermal
shock or temperature spiking must be taken into account. These problems can
often be traced to poorly balanced flow rates at various taps or shower heads.
   A guide to the water use efficiency of showers, as determined by flow rates at
the point of use under normal drinking-water supply conditions and pressures,
is as follows:
  •   6–8 litres per minute:            Very good
  •   8–12 litres per minute:           Good
  •   12–18 litres per minute:          Reasonable
  •   18–24 litres per minute:          Fair
  •   > 24 litres per minute:           Poor and very wasteful

18.6 Minimizing water usage in flushing cisterns
There are three main categories of flushing cisterns that are connected to toilet
bowls – high level, intermediate level and close coupled. The application of the
high-level cistern is normally restricted to a single flush operation, whereas the
intermediate and close-coupled toilet cisterns are available in a variety of designs
and materials incorporating a dual flush function. Typically, the full flush vol-
ume is 6 litres (1.6 US gallons or 1.4 UK gallons) and a half flush volume is 3 litres
(0.75 US gallons or 0.66 UK gallons) or less. Plumbing codes must ensure that


                                              111
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



only matching toilet bowls designed to operate with low flush volumes are used
in conjunction with these dual flush or low flush cisterns. The volume of the
larger flush in a dual flush system should not exceed 6 litres, and the lesser flush
volume must not exceed two thirds of the larger flush volume. Urinals with
flushing controls are also available. Sensors control their operation so that flush-
ing does not occur when they are not in use. Waterless urinals are also available that
can achieve significant savings if they are installed and maintained correctly.
   Reduced toilet flushing volumes may cause problems if the drainage system
does not have a substantial flow into the system upstream of the toilet. When
water flows are too low, solids may be stranded in the drainage piping and may
cause blockages. This and similar problems can be avoided if plumbing codes are
regularly revised to incorporate new design practices.
   Although the half flush is an important strategy for reducing water usage in
cisterns, it may not be effective when toilet tissue paper is used with a half flush.
The problem is that the tissue paper often becomes stranded at the outlet weir of
the toilet bowl. This in turn results in the draining out of the water trap seal due
to the inability of the reduced flush volume to carry the tissue paper clear of the
water seal zone of the bowl. After one or two such events the user may resort to
using the full flush every time and the potential benefits of the dual flush system
are lost.
   In areas of extreme water scarcity it may be necessary to install chemical or
composting toilets instead of water closets. There are a number of types, but
most are self-contained. Since they do not strictly come under the heading of
plumbing fixtures, they will not be discussed here.

18.7 Minimizing water wastage in lawn and garden irrigation
When promoting a water use efficiency programme, steps should be taken to
minimize the use of drinking-water on gardens and lawns. More than 40% of
household water use can be external in households in dry areas that have fully
established gardens and lawns. Advice on appropriate gardening practices, selec-
tion of plants suitable for the local climate and suitable irrigation watering sched-
ules all help to reduce water use without loss of amenity. In localities with high
daytime temperatures, lawn and garden watering and some other external high-
volume uses should be banned during the hottest part of the day to reduce loss
through evaporation. In some situations, more drastic restrictions or bans on
lawn watering and other high-volume external uses may be required, at least
seasonally.

18.8 Attempts to reduce water usage through intermittent supply
Water authorities adopt various expedients to reduce consumption by the public
during periods of water shortage. One of the most unacceptable is to make



                                           112
                 18. CONSERVATION OF WATER IN PUBLIC AND DOMESTIC SUPPLY SYSTEMS



supplies intermittent. In this strategy mains supply to all or part of the system is
shut down completely during certain hours of the day. One of the worst conse-
quences is the development of negative pressures, which carries a risk of serious
backflow contamination of mains water. In addition, deposits of rust, detritus
and other sediments within the mains are stirred up and carried in suspension
when the flow resumes. Air may be drawn into the system, causing airlocks or
water hammer. Cessation of mains flow means that emergency calls for water for
firefighting cannot be met without undue delay.
    It is also doubtful whether significant savings result in the long run, since
consumers fill bathtubs and containers in anticipation of shutdowns. During the
shutdown period, consumers may turn on a water tap and, finding that the supply
is unavailable, leave the tap in the open position; water is then wasted when supply
is resumed. Although water is not available during the shutdown period, after the
supply is returned to normal there may be considerable water wastage through
open taps and the disposal of excess water that was stored in baths or sinks. These
losses could easily cancel out any potential water savings.
    A better strategy is to maintain adequate pressure in the distribution mains to
eliminate low or negative pressures in hilly conditions or where tall buildings
must be served. The flow to individual premises can be controlled by inserting
pressure reduction or limiting valves adjacent to the water authority’s stop valves
for each service. Thus, the system can more easily be balanced to provide each
branch with adequate flows at all times. Further balancing of flows and pressure
is then possible in each private service feeding multiple dwellings or tall build-
ings so as to provide equal amenity to all consumers. It is important that all
branches from the main distribution system are regulated, as any uncontrolled
flows will have an adverse effect on a balanced system.
    The plumbing of multiple latrines, bathhouses and laundries should comply
with the general principles of the plumbing code with regard to cross-
connection, backsiphonage and backflow. By providing each with its own
storage tank, peak use flows are evened out and economies may be possible in the
delivery mains and connections. In many arid areas, it is customary to provide
storage at groups of standpipes for the same reason.
    Above all, the maintenance of the installations will depend upon the coopera-
tion of those using them. Efforts to build a sense of communal ownership and
pride of possession are important so that cooperation is voluntarily given or
assured by peer pressure, and enforcement is therefore unnecessary. In this way,
communal sanitary facilities can be kept clean and working with the minimum
need for supervision and inspection.




                                              113
                               HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




19. Wastewater use


The use of wastewater for a variety of purposes is gaining increased popularity
as a means of preserving scarce freshwater resources. Wastewater and greywater
use is increasingly considered a method combining water and nutrient recycling,
increased household food security and improved nutrition for poor households.
Economic and environmental pressures, and the conservation ethic, have led to
widespread and growing applications for recycling of wastewater, including
irrigation of food and non-food crops, green spaces, recovering arid land, fire
systems, industrial cooling or industrial processing, sanitation and even as
indirect and possibly direct sources of drinking-water. The beneficial use of
wastewater also helps to decrease the impact on the environment of disposal of
sewage or industrial effluent. The end use of wastewater determines the required
quality of the water and management procedures required to ensure safety.
WHO and several countries have developed guidelines and standards for the safe
use of wastewater in agriculture and other settings (WHO 2006a).

19.1 Use of greywater
There has been considerable focus on the use of greywater. The 2000 Uniform
Plumbing Code illustrated training manual published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials defines greywater as
“untreated household wastewater which has not come into contact with toilet
waste. Greywater includes used water from bathtubs, showers, bathroom wash
basins, and water from clothes washing machines and laundry tubs. It shall not
include wastewater from kitchen sinks or dishwashers” (IAPMO 2000). Even
though greywater does not include wastewater, pathogens may still be present
from different sources (e.g. babies’ nappies or diapers). However, pathogen
concentrations are generally much lower than in wastewater. Greywater can be
used in domestic installations, for water closet flushing and for garden watering.
Depending on the use, greywater may require some treatment (e.g. disinfection)
or management steps prior to application to ensure safety. For example,
greywater used for garden irrigation should not be distributed by aerial spraying,
as there is high risk of spreading airborne infectious particles (see section 14.5).
But if the greywater is applied below the soil surface for landscape irrigation,
little or no treatment may be necessary. WHO has recently completed Guidelines
for the Safe Use of Wastewater, Excreta and Greywater, which provide more


                                          114
                                             19. WASTEWATER USE



information on risk management associated with the use of these substances
(WHO 2006a). Table 19.1 summarizes the suitability of different grades of water
for use in different applications.

TABLE 19.1 SUITABILITY FOR USE OF DIFFERENT GRADES OF WATER
Water grade         Definition and reuse applications
Greywater           Water from a potable source that has already been used for bathing, washing, laundry
                    or washing dishes
Wastewater          Combined domestic effluent that contains sewage
Reclaimed water     Water that has been treated so that its quality is suitable for particular specified purposes,
                    e.g. irrigation, toilet flushing, etc.
Green water         Reclaimed water that has been treated to a relatively high standard, suitable for general
                    use as a non-potable source in parallel with the potable source. It may be identified
                    through inclusion of a green dye and supplied through a dedicated pipework system
Drinking-water      Very high-quality water assured to be suitable for drinking by humans


19.2 Use of wastewater
Greywater does not include the wastewater from toilets, urinals or bidets. The
discharges from these fixtures are classified as wastewater (sometimes referred to
as black water), because they contain high levels of pathogenic organisms and
solids. Such discharges should undergo specialized treatment prior to any
secondary use. The installation and operation of wastewater use systems must be
strictly controlled. Safe wastewater use systems require subsoil discharge in
order to limit the amount of exposure to humans and animals, so minimizing
any possibility of transmission of infections by viruses, bacteria or parasites.
However, precautions should be taken to avoid the contamination of ground-
water resources used for drinking-water.
   In larger urban sewerage systems, the effluent from at least secondary treated
community sewage treatment plants can be reclaimed by filtration, disinfection
and other more advanced treatments (e.g. membranes) and sold for industrial
processes or cooling, or used for irrigation of community sports grounds and
gardens, or even for indirect potable reuse. Industrial and mine processing sites
may set up internal recycling of cooling and process water to reduce their
reliance on community supplies. A comprehensive overview of management
measures for the reuse of wastewater in agriculture and aquaculture is presented
in the WHO guidelines (WHO 2006a).

19.3 Management of dual water systems
Community and large industrial water reuse systems require a separate water
distribution system that runs parallel to the drinking-water distribution system.
Extreme care is required to keep the two systems separate, to prevent cross-


                                                     115
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



connection and to prevent inadvertent use of non-potable water for food
preparation or consumption by both humans and animals. Dual water systems
of this type must be clearly identified with a system of colour coding, labels and
tags that conform to a national standard. All non-potable water outlets must be
clearly labelled, and should be physically separated from potable (drinking)
water outlets. Where possible, non-potable water outlets should be locked off to
prevent unauthorized use. In a domestic environment non-potable water is best
restricted to uses such as water closet flushing or garden irrigation. A closed
distribution system will prevent casual use of the water for other uses.
   Another potential user of a dual water system is the firefighting service. How-
ever, water outlets such as hydrants used for firefighting may also be illegally
used by the public for domestic purposes. Epidemics have been traced to the use
of water from fire hydrants for domestic purposes in the poorer sections of cities
where the fire service water is drawn from water supplies of unknown quality.
Because unauthorized use cannot be prevented, fire hydrants in public places
should be supplied with safe drinking-water when possible.

19.4 Identification of potable and non potable-drinking-water systems
The pipes in all buildings having drinking-water and non-drinking-water
systems must be clearly identified. The following is a suggested system of colour
codes and labels used to identify different grades of water:
  • Drinking-water: green background with white lettering
  • Non-drinking-water: yellow background with black lettering, with the
    words “Caution – non-potable water, do not drink” or “Non-drinking-
    water, do not drink”.
  • Reclaimed water: purple or lilac (Pantone colour #512) background,
    imprinted in nominal 12.7 millimetre (0.5 inch) high, black, upper case let-
    ters with the words “Caution – reclaimed water, do not drink”.
  • Each system shall be identified with a coloured band to designate the liquid
    being conveyed, and the direction of normal flow shall be clearly shown.
    The minimum size of the letters and length of the colour field shall
    conform to the recommendations in Table 19.2.
  • A coloured identification band shall be indicated every 6 metres (20 feet)
    but at least once per room, and shall be visible from the floor level. Where
    vacuum breakers or presenters are installed with fixtures, identification of
    the discharge side may be omitted.
  • Each outlet on the non-potable water line that could be used for special
    purposes shall be posted as follows: “Caution – non-potable water, do not
    drink”.




                                         116
                                         19. WASTEWATER USE



TABLE 19.2 MINIMUM LENGTH OF COLOUR FIELD AND SIZE OF LETTERS
     Outside diameter of pipe or   Minimum length of colour     Minimum size of letters
      covering in inches (mm)         field in inches (mm)          in inches (mm)

         0.5–1.25     (13–32)               8 (203)                     0.5 (12.7)
          1.5–2.0     (40–50)               8 (203)                    0.75 (19.1)
          2.5–6.0     (65–150)             12 (305)                   1.25 (32.0)
             8–10     (200–250)            24 (619)                   2.25 (64.0)
             > 10     (> 250)              32 (813)                     3.5 (89.0)
Source: IAPMO 2003.



Additional information on grey water systems, reclaimed water systems, private
sewage disposal systems, and drinking-water supply and distribution systems
can be obtained from the following organizations:

    World Plumbing Council (WPC)
    KPMG Fides
    14 Chemin De-Normandie
    CH-1206
    Geneva, Switzerland
    www.worldplumbing.org

    International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO)
    5001 East Philadelphia Street
    Ontario, CA 91761-2816 USA
    www.iapmo.org

    Institute of Plumbing & Heating Engineering (IPHE)
    64 Station Lane
    Hornchurch, Essex
    RM12 6NB
    United Kingdom
    http://www.iphe.org.uk/

    World Health Organization
    Water, Sanitation and Health Programme
    20 Avenue Appia
    1211 Genève 27
    Switzerland
    http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/en/




                                                 117
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




Glossary of plumbing and
other terms used in the text

access chamber. An opening into the ground from which drains can be inspect-
   ed and rodded or cleaned out, both towards and away from a building, also
   acting as a junction into which the drainage from other plumbing fixtures may
   discharge into the horizontal drain.
accessible. In reference to a plumbing fixture, appliance, equipment or connec-
   tion: easily reached, though the use of tools may be required to remove an
   access panel or open a door.
air break. A physical separation between any pipe and receptor through the free
   atmosphere. The separation may be below the flood level of the receptor but
   above the trap seal.
air gap. A physical separation between a safe drinking-water system and above
   the flood level of the receptor. The separation should be at least twice the
   supply pipe diameter, but never less that 25 millimetres (1 inch).
authority. An individual official, board, ministry or other political entity estab-
   lished and authorized by governmental sanction or a specific law enacted by a
   governing body that confers statutory powers to formulate and enforce a code
   of practice for plumbing.
backflow. The reversing of the normal flow of water or other substances into the
   drinking-water distribution system from any unintended source.
backpressure. The reversing of normal flow resulting from a pressure down-
   stream that is higher than the supply pressure in the distribution piping of a
   drinking-water supply system.
backsiphonage. The reversing of normal flow resulting from negative or subatmos-
   pheric pressures in the distribution piping of a drinking-water supply system.
backwater valve. A device for preventing sewage or drainage water from flowing
   back into a building in the event of flooding or sewer blockage.
black water. Combined domestic effluent including liquid and solid human
   body waste and the water discharged from toilet usage.
building drain. The lowest part of a building drainage system where the drain-
   age pipes meet and convey the discharge from within the walls or footings of
   any building to the building sewer. Also called house drain. See also combined
   building drain; sanitary building drain.
building sewer. That part of the horizontal piping of a drainage system that ex-
   tends from the end of the building drain and that receives the discharge of the


                                         118
                    GLOSSARY OF PLUMBING AND OTHER TERMS USED IN THE TEXT



   building drain and conveys it to a public sewer, private sewer, private sewage
   disposal system or other point of disposal. Also called house sewer. See also
   combined building sewer; sanitary building sewer; storm building sewer.
building subdrain. That portion of a drainage system that does not drain by
   gravity into the building sewer. Also called house subdrain.
check valve. A valve that allows the flow of a liquid in only one direction but
   closes when the normal direction of flow is reversed.
cistern. A vessel open at the top to the atmosphere used to hold a supply of cold
   drinking-water.
cleaning eye. Same as access chamber.
colour marking. The marking of pipes and fittings with different colours to des-
   ignate the application of the product and to assist installers in identification
   and prevention of cross-connections.
combined building drain. A building drain that conveys both sewage and storm
   water or other drainage.
combined building sewer. A building sewer that conveys both sewage and storm
   water or other drainage.
conservation. The preservation and protection of natural resources.
corrosion. A surface reaction causing a gradual erosion of the material affected.
cross-connection. Any physical connection or arrangement between two other-
   wise separate piping systems or containment means, one of which contains
   potable water, and the other water or fluid of unknown or questionable
   safety.
disinfection. Killing or rendering harmless microbial contaminants by chemical
   or physical processes.
downpipe or downspout. A vertical drainage pipe for conveying storm water
   from the roof or gutter drains.
drain. Any pipe that carries waterborne waste in a building drainage system. See
   also building drain; storm drain; subsoil drain.
drainage system. All the piping within public or private premises that conveys
   sewage or other liquid wastes to a point of disposal. It does not include the
   mains of a public sewer system or a public sewage treatment or disposal
   plant.
drain cock. A valve, usually installed in the lowest portion of a piping system or
   vessel, that controls the flow of liquid from the system or vessel. Also called
   drain valve.
dual system. A situation in which a second plumbing system is installed along-
   side the system for provision of drinking-water. An example is a potable
   drinking-water system and a greywater system in the same facility.
electrolysis. A chemical change that occurs when an electric current is generated
   by the connection of two different metals, either directly or via an electrolyte
   solution.


                                            119
                                HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



fixture. See plumbing fixture.
fixture unit. An arbitrarily chosen scale or quantity that represents the load of
   a fixture on a drainage system. One fixture unit was originally established as
   7.5 imperial (UK) gallons = 9 US gallons = 34 litres per minute discharge by
   gravity through a fixture.
flammable waste. Waste that is easily ignited and will burn.
float valve. A valve that operates by means of a bulb or ball floating on the sur-
   face of a liquid in a tank or container. The rise and fall action operates a lever,
   which opens and closes the valve.
flushometer valve. A device activated by direct water pressure to discharge a
   predetermined quantity of water to fixtures for flushing purposes.
frost protection. Methods, such as burial or insulation, used to protect against
   freezing of pipes or fixtures.
grease interceptor. A device, usually outside a building, that retains grease and
   prevents it passing into the sewerage system.
grease trap. A grease interceptor installed inside a facility, usually near the
   grease-producing fixtures.
green water. Reclaimed water that has been treated to a standard, suitable for
   general domestic non-potable applications. It may be identified through
   inclusion of a green dye and supplied through a dedicated colour-coded pipe-
   work system.
greywater. Water that has already been used for bathing, washing, laundry or
   dishwashing, but does not contain excreta.
indirect connections. Waste piping that discharges into a receptor or interceptor
   through an air break or air gap into the drainage system.
industrial waste. Liquid or waterborne waste from industrial or commercial
   processes.
inspection chamber. Same as access chamber.
interceptor. A device used to separate deleterious, hazardous or undesirable
   matter from normal wastes, retaining it while permitting normal sewage or
   liquid wastes to discharge into the drainage system by gravity.
liquid waste. The discharge from any fixture, appliance or appurtenance in con-
   nection with a plumbing system that does not receive faecal matter.
manhole. Same as access chamber.
mixing valve. A valve or faucet that mixes liquids using automatic or manual
   regulation.
negative pressure. Pressure below the external atmosphere pressure, taking into
   account the local elevation.
non-return valve. Same as check valve.
oil trap. An interceptor used to retain oil and prevent it passing into sewers.
overflow system. An outlet or receptacle designed to collect surplus liquids after
   the desired amount has been received.


                                           120
                    GLOSSARY OF PLUMBING AND OTHER TERMS USED IN THE TEXT



pH. The negative logarithm (base 10) of the hydrogen concentration. On the scale
   of 0 to 14, 7 is neutral, lower numbers are acidic, and higher numbers are basic.
plumbing fixture. A general term applied to any plumbing receptacle, device
   or appliance that can be temporarily or permanently fixed in place. It is con-
   nected to the drinking-water supply or to the drainage system either by an
   indirect or direct connection.
potable water. Same as drinking-water.
pressure reduction valve. A device that regulates pressure in liquids or gases
   by reducing a higher pressure to a definite lower pressure, maintaining the
   liquids or gases at a constant pressure.
pressure relief valve. A safety valve that is held closed by a spring or other means
   and automatically relieves the pressure in excess of its setting. See also tem-
   perature and pressure relief valve.
reclaimed water. Water that has been treated so that its quality is suitable for
   particular specified purposes, such as irrigation, toilet flushing or possibly
   drinking. Also called recycled water.
roof drainage. Conveyance of rainwater from a sloping roof by gutters and
   downspouts, or from a vertical roof by pipe, to a surface water sewer or suit-
   able soakaway.
safe or potable drinking-water. Water that is intended for human consumption
   and suitable for all usual domestic uses, complying with the requirements of
   the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality or appropriate national
   standards established by the regulating authority.
sanitary building drain. A building drain that conveys only domestic or indus-
   trial waste, not storm water.
sanitary building sewer. A building sewer that conveys only domestic or indus-
   trial waste, not storm water.
sanitary sewer. A sewer intended to receive only domestic or industrial waste,
   not storm water.
sewage. Liquid waste and wastewater generated by residential and commerical
   sources and carried in sewers.
sewer. A channel or conduit, usually subterranean, for carrying off water and
   waste matter, such as surface water from rainfall, household waste from sinks
   and baths, and wastewater from industrial works. See also building sewer;
   sanitary sewer.
sewerage. The works comprising a sewer system, pumping stations, treatment
   works and all other works necessary to the collection, treatment and disposal
   of sewage.
sewer system. System including a building sewer, a private or public sewer, and
   a private or public sewage disposal system.
stop valve. A key control valve capable of shutting off the whole plumbing sys-
   tem that is under mains pressure.


                                            121
                              HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



storm drain. The part of the horizontal piping and its branches that directs sub-
   soil and surface drainage from areas, courts, roofs or yards to a building or
   storm sewer.
storm water drainage. Drainage of rainwater from roofs, courtyards and paved
   areas and conveying it away from buildings to a place of disposal.
subsoil drain. A drain that collects subsurface or seepage water and conveys it
   to a place of disposal.
temperature and pressure relief valve. A device that controls both temperature
   and pressure, releasing water to atmosphere at predetermined settings. See
   also pressure relief valve.
trap. A device or fitting that provides a liquid seal to prevent the emission of
   sewer gases without materially retarding the flow of sewage or wastewater
   through it.
vent. Any pipe provided to ventilate a plumbing system in order to prevent
   backpressure and trap siphonage, or to equalize the air pressure within the
   drainage system.
waste. See liquid waste; industrial waste.
wastewater. The spent or used water of a community, including from residences
   and commercial buildings, and any surface water or storm water that contains
   dissolved or suspended matter.
water closet. A water-flushing device or fixture designed to receive human waste
   directly from the user and discharge it to the drainage system.




                                         122
                    GLOSSARY OF PLUMBING AND OTHER TERMS USED IN THE TEXT




Bibliography


Ainsworth RG, ed. 2004. Safe piped water: managing microbial quality in piped
  distribution systems. WHO Drinking-Water Quality Series. London, IWA
  Publishing.
Bartram J et al., eds. 2003. Heterotrophic plate counts and drinking-water safety:
  the significance of HPCs for water quality and human health. London, IWA
  Publishing.
BRE (Building Research Establishment). 2001. Vacuum drainage systems guid-
  ance. United Kingdom, joint publication of BRE, Institute of Plumbing and
  Heating Engineering and Chartered Institution of Building Services.
CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). 2003. Guidelines for envi-
  ronmental infection control in health care facilities. Morbidity and Mortality
  Weekly Report (MMWR) 2003/52(RR10):1–42. Available at www.cdc.gov/
  mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5210a1, accessed 21 January 2006.
Cotruvo J. 2005. Point of use treatment for home and travel. In: Grabow W, ed.
  Water and Public Health, in Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems (EOLSS).
  Oxford, UK, EOLSS Publishers.
EPA (Environmental Protection Agency). 2003. Cross-connection control
  manual. EPA 816-R-03-002, February 2003. Available at www.epa.gov/
  safewater/crossconnection.html, accessed 21 January 2006.
Exner M, Vacata V, Gebel J. 2003. Public health aspects of the role of HPC: an
  introduction. In: Bartram J et al., eds. Heterotrophic plate counts and drinking-
  water safety: the significance of HPCs for water quality and human health
  12–19. London, IWA Publishing.
Howard G, Bartram J. 2003. Domestic water quantity, service level and health.
  Geneva, World Health Organization.
IAPMO (International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials).
  1997. 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code illustrated training manual. Ontario,
  California, IAPMO.
IAPMO (International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials).
  2000. 2000 Uniform Plumbing Code illustrated training manual. Ontario,
  California, IAPMO.
IAPMO (International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials).
  2003. 2003 Uniform Plumbing Code illustrated training manual. Ontario,
  California, IAPMO.


                                            123
                             HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



IPHE (Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering). 2004. Disinfection.
   Available at www.iphe.org.uk/databyte/disinfection.pdf, accessed 21 January
   2006.
IPHE (Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering). 2005. Legionella. Avail-
   able at www.iphe.org.uk/databyte/legionella.pdf, accessed 21 January 2006.
Stevens M et al. 2004. Risk management for distribution systems. In: Ainsworth
   R, ed. Safe piped water: managing microbial water quality in piped distribu-
   tion systems. London, IWA Publishing.
Surman-Lee et al. 2006 (in preparation). Legionella and the prevention of le-
   gionellosis. Geneva, World Health Organization.
Taylor F, Wood W, eds. 1982. Guidelines on health aspects of plumbing. Interna-
   tional Reference Centre for Community Water Supply and Sanitation (IRC)
   Technical Paper Series No. 19. The Hague, IRC.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 1999. Human development
   report 1999. New York, Oxford University Press.
WHO (World Health Organization). 1998. Three billion people worldwide lack
   sanitation facilities: WHO strategy on sanitation for high risk communities.
   WHO press release, 29 January 1998. Available at www.who.int/inf-pr-1998/
   en/pr98-18.html, accessed 21 January 2006.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2003. Final report: Amoy Gardens. WHO
   Environmental Investigation. Available at www.iapmo.org/common/pdf/
   ISS-Rome/SARS_Amoy_Gardens_HK.pdf, accessed 21 January 2006.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2004a. Guidelines for drinking-water
   quality, 3rd ed. Geneva, WHO.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2004b. Water, sanitation and hygiene links
   to health. Available at www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publications/
   facts2004/, accessed 21 January 2006.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2005. Managing water in the home: ac-
   celerated health gains from improved water supply. Available at www.who.int/
   water_sanitation_health/dwq, accessed 21 January 2006.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2006a. Guidelines for the safe use of waste-
   water, excreta and greywater Volumes 1–4. Geneva, WHO.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2006b. The International Network
   to Promote Household Water Treatment and Safe Storage. Available at
   www.who.int/household_water, accessed 9 February 2006.
WHO/UNICEF (World Health Organization and United Nations Chil-
   dren’s Fund). 2005. Water for life: making it happen. WHO/UNICEF
   Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply & Sanitation. Available at
   www.wssinfo.org/en/40_wfl_2005.html (p.13), accessed 21 January 2006.




                                        124
                                  BIBLIOGRAPHY




Contributing authors


Neil Bogatz and Gabriella Davis, Project Co-Administration, International
   Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, USA
Robert Burgon, Scottish and Northern Ireland Plumbing Employers
   Federation, Scotland
Sid Cavanaugh, United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the
   Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada
Joseph Cotruvo, Joseph Cotruvo & Associates, LLC, USA
Dale Courtman, Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering, United
   Kingdom
John Halliwill, International Association of Plumbing & Mechanical Officials,
   USA
Don Keenan, Master Plumbers, Gasfitters and Drainlayers New Zealand, Inc.,
   New Zealand
Ralph T. Martin, The Institute of Plumbing, Australia
Stephen J. Movley, The Institute of Plumbing, Australia
Frank Penfold, Ontario Plumbing Inspectors Association, Canada
Plumbing Industry Commission Authority of Victorian Government,
   Australia
Plumbing-Heating-Cooling Contractors National Association, USA
Hari Ramanathan, International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
   Officials, USA
Edward Saltzberg, Edward Saltzberg & Associates, USA
Robert Shepherd, International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
   Officials, USA
Jurg Tester, Schweizerischer Spenglermeister und Installateur-Verband,
   Switzerland
Murray Thomas, Plumbing Division Manager – PPTC Skills, Western
   Australia
Richard Wagner, Environmental Engineering, USA
Charles Watson, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, WA, Australia
Andy Watts, Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering, United Kingdom
Shiming Zhao, Building Design Institute of the Ministry of Construction,
   Peoples Republic of China




                                      125
                                    HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING




Index


access chamber 26, 35, 36, 58, 59, 65, 66,             chloramine 8
   69, 104, 118, 119, 121                              chlordane 87
Aeromonas 12                                           chlorinated polyvinylchloride (CPVC)
aesthetic 79, 105, 120                                    x, 49, 51
air break 61, 63, 118, 120                             chlorination 7, 15, 51
air gap 54, 62, 77, 86, 118, 120                       chlorine 8, 11, 37, 38, 61, 79, 105
arsenic 7, 13, 14, 48                                  circulating pump 4
assessment 15, 18, 19, 20, 46, 47                      cistern 37, 62, 63, 74, 77, 111, 119
audit 5, 42                                            clay 36, 53
authority 1, 2, 5, 23, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32,             clay pipe 36
   33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45,         climate 6, 112
   46, 48, 49, 57, 59, 61, 64, 66, 67, 71, 79,         code of practice 5, 20, 22, 28, 29, 30, 31,
   93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 104, 107,             32, 33, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 66, 68, 79, 96,
   108, 109, 118, 121                                     97, 98, 118
automobile oil 8                                       cold water system 48, 53, 75, 83, 120
backflow 5, 25, 27, 54, 57, 60, 61, 62, 68,            coliform 11
   71, 77, 79, 80, 85, 86, 87, 88, 90, 91, 93,         colour coding 53, 79, 116
   94, 96, 97, 106, 113, 118                           combined sewer 98
backpressure 5, 24, 68, 90, 118, 122                   communal systems 22, 24, 58, 67, 103,
backsiphonage 5, 24, 57, 60, 61, 68, 73, 85,              105, 107, 108, 113
   86, 87, 88, 90, 96, 106, 113, 118                   concrete 54, 55, 56, 64, 65, 92, 96, 98, 99,
bacteria 2, 8, 10, 11, 12, 20, 48, 51, 62, 115            100, 106
Bangladesh 13, 14                                      conservation 6, 20, 75, 107, 114, 119
biofilms 12, 17                                        contamination 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13,
black water 73, 75, 112, 115, 118                         14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 24, 32, 37, 55, 60, 61,
bleach 7, 37                                              62, 67, 68, 71, 85, 88, 90, 91, 103, 108,
boiler 76                                                 110, 113, 115
booster pump 4, 71, 72                                 control valve 68, 91, 106, 111, 119, 122
bottled water 8, 12, 105                               copper 17, 49, 50, 51, 54, 79
brass 49, 50, 106                                      corrosion 13, 17, 20, 24, 48, 49, 50, 51, 72,
calcium 17, 37                                            78, 119
Campylobacter 10                                       cross-connection 4, 5, 20, 24, 40, 42, 53,
carbon filter 12                                          55, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 90,
cement joint 36, 51                                       97, 106, 113, 116, 119, 124
Centers for Disease Control x, 12, 124                 Cryptosporidia 8, 10, 11
central heating 68, 76                                 desalination 6
ceramic filter 104                                     design of plumbing systems 1, 2, 4, 5, 12,
certification 5, 24, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46,              20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
   47, 48, 54                                             42, 46, 53, 55, 57, 58, 60, 64, 67, 71, 85,
check valve 87, 88, 90, 93, 94, 119, 120                  107, 108
childproof 15                                          Dhaka 9


                                                 126
                                                   INDEX



diameter of water pipes 33, 34, 37, 50, 51,                gravity systems 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 119,
    52, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 67, 69, 83,               120, 121
    98, 101, 102, 104, 117, 118                            grease 33, 63, 80, 90, 91, 92, 94, 95, 99,
diarrhoea vii, 6, 7, 12                                       120
disease 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 14, 21, 105, 108                  green water 79, 115, 120
disinfection 2, 8, 13, 15, 37, 38, 39, 105,                greywater 69, 73, 74, 75, 79, 114, 115, 117,
    114, 115, 119                                             119
domestic storage 61, 68                                    groundwater 6, 8, 10, 13, 14, 55, 78, 115,
double check valve 87, 88, 93, 94                             122
downpipe 99, 119                                           growth 8, 11, 12, 16, 50, 62, 76
Dracunculus medinensis 11                                  Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
drainage system 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 35,                       11, 12, 15, 19, 47, 49, 120, 124
    36, 48, 52, 53, 54, 64, 66, 67, 75, 95, 96,            hazard assessment 18, 19
    106, 109, 112, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122                 health vii, viii, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12,
drainpipe 26, 35, 36, 58, 84                                  13, 15, 16, 17, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28,
drains 4, 26, 30, 31, 33, 36, 58, 59, 63, 64,                 29, 30, 32, 39, 41, 42, 45, 48, 49, 53, 63,
    65, 66, 69, 70, 73, 75, 83, 84, 98, 100,                  64, 67, 75, 79, 80, 81, 87, 98, 103, 104,
    102, 106, 107, 110, 118, 119                              105, 107, 108, 119, 120, 121, 122
drinking-water vii, viii, ix, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,               helminthes 11
    6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 20, 21,           Hepatitis 10, 11
    23, 24, 30, 31, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52,            heterotrophic plate count (HPC) x, 12,
    54, 55, 57, 60, 67, 68, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77,               121
    78, 79, 82, 85, 86, 90, 93, 100, 103, 105,             heterotrophs 11, 12
    107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115,                horizontal drain 59, 65, 66, 67, 84, 101,
    116, 117, 118, 120, 121                                   102, 119, 122
dual systems 4, 32, 57, 75, 77, 111, 112,                  hospital 4, 12, 13, 19, 38, 59, 75, 76, 81,
    115, 116, 119                                             85, 88, 108, 110
earthenware 52, 54                                         hot water system 12, 15, 25, 48, 50, 57,
electrolysis 78, 119                                          68, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 83, 111, 120
enforcement 42, 106, 109, 113                              hotel 5, 19, 38, 42, 58, 67, 68, 69, 75, 76,
Entamoeba histolytica 11                                      80, 108, 111
Escherichia coli 10, 11, 12, 39                            household water treatment 7, 105
evaporation 6, 69, 112                                     hydration 6, 7
faecal contamination 2, 11, 12, 39, 80                     hydropneumatic tank 72
filtration 2, 8, 115                                       hygiene vii, 6, 7, 19, 24, 103, 104, 105, 121
fire protection 49, 77, 90                                 hypochlorite 37, 79
fixture unit 82, 83, 84, 120                               immunocompromised 12, 13
Flavobacterium 12                                          industrial premises 5, 6, 9, 25, 40, 41, 42,
fluoride 7, 13, 14                                            54, 55, 57, 59, 77, 80, 81, 85, 94, 95, 96,
flushing 37, 38, 62, 63, 78, 80, 81, 91, 106,                 109, 111
    111, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 120, 122                 infection 10, 12, 13, 115
food 5, 6, 10, 12, 18, 25, 27, 29, 32, 39,                 infiltration 36, 107, 108
    42, 55, 62, 63, 77, 80, 81, 105, 108,                  inspection 5, 26, 29, 40, 41, 42, 43, 58, 62,
    114, 116                                                  64, 66, 78, 93, 100, 106, 107, 108, 109,
fresh water 6, 90, 114                                        113, 120
frost 58, 61, 69, 120                                      intermittent supply 112
galvanized steel 49, 50, 51, 78                            iodine 105
Giardia 10, 11                                             iron 16, 49, 50, 51, 54
gradient 33, 34, 58, 59, 66, 74, 84, 85, 98,               irrigation 5, 6, 52, 75, 77, 81, 85, 112, 114,
    102                                                       115, 116, 122


                                                   127
                                     HEALTH ASPECTS OF PLUMBING



jurisdiction 29, 30, 31, 32, 45, 67, 104                pH 16, 48, 95, 121
Klebsiella 12                                           plastic piping 49, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 65
latrines 10, 96, 105, 106, 113                          plumber 1, 2, 16, 20, 21, 23, 28, 29, 31, 33,
laundry 6, 24, 55, 58, 67, 103, 114, 115,                  34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 47
   120                                                  plumbing fixture 24, 33, 40, 54, 55, 58,
lead pipe 13, 20, 21                                       59, 61, 62, 63, 66, 67, 73, 77, 83, 84, 85,
leakage 1, 8, 23, 24, 25, 35, 39, 52, 54, 62,              103, 110, 118, 112, 120, 121
   63, 65, 75, 77, 107, 108, 109, 110                   point of use 2, 7, 16, 111
Legionella 11, 12, 15, 76                               polybutylene 49, 50, 51
liability 22, 41                                        polyethylene x, 49, 52
licence, licensing 29, 31, 34, 35, 42, 45, 98           polyvinylchloride (PVC) x, 49, 51, 52,
liquid seal trap 26                                        53, 54
liquid waste 1, 3, 4, 20, 23, 25, 68, 119,              pressure 5, 8, 23, 24, 25, 26, 35, 36, 37, 38,
   120, 121, 122                                           42, 48, 51, 52, 61, 63, 64, 67, 68, 71, 72,
lodging house 5, 42, 108                                   73, 75, 76, 77, 82, 85, 86, 87, 88, 90, 91,
mains 1, 2, 4, 5, 13, 23, 24, 32, 35, 38, 42,              93, 96, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 113, 114
   52, 60, 61, 67, 68, 71, 72, 76, 77, 86, 96,             118, 120, 121, 122
   100, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113,              prevention 7, 18, 19, 42, 54, 60, 61, 68, 77,
   120, 121, 122                                           78, 79, 80, 85, 93, 94, 97, 107, 119
maintenance 1, 5, 16, 23, 27, 28, 34, 38,               privy 105, 106
   39, 54, 57, 58, 59, 62, 66, 68, 74, 78, 82,          protozoa 8, 10, 11, 98
   93, 106, 107, 108, 109, 113                          Pseudomonas 11, 12, 15
management 1, 2, 3, 10, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20,             public health 1, 2, 5, 10, 11, 15, 20, 27, 41,
   23, 24, 43, 54, 109, 114, 115                           42, 75, 103, 108
materials 17, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29,           public water supply 2, 3, 5, 7, 30, 31, 32,
   31, 36, 37, 40, 41, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52,             34, 60, 71, 72
   53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 64, 67, 78, 90, 98, 107,         qualifications 29, 31, 41
   108, 111                                             quality 1, 2, 6, 7, 11, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23, 24,
metering 107, 109, 110                                     27, 28, 31, 46, 47, 49, 53, 54, 56, 77, 79,
microorganisms 2, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,                   98, 100, 104, 105, 107, 114, 115, 116,
   17, 63                                                  122
mixing valve 15, 16, 75, 120                            radon 13
multiple barriers 2, 7, 18                              rainfall 99, 100, 101, 102, 122
multiple dwelling 57, 67, 68, 73, 76, 77,               reclaimed water 79, 115, 116, 117, 120,
   82, 109, 113                                            121
multi-storey building 4, 36, 41, 57, 71,                registration 34, 40, 44, 45, 91
   72, 73, 77                                           reuse 6, 115, 112
Mycobacterium avium 16                                  roof 9, 25, 26, 62, 64, 65, 69, 71, 73, 78,
negative pressure 5, 26, 68, 73, 113, 120                  98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 106, 118, 119, 122
nitrate/nitrite 13, 14                                  Rotavirus 11
non-testable device 93                                  runoff 8, 10, 14, 16, 99
Norovirus 10, 11                                        salmonellae 11
odour 8, 12, 26, 51, 63, 64, 65, 79, 87                 sanitary waste 1, 8, 24, 94
one-pipe system 64, 68, 69                              sanitation vii, viii, 3, 6, 7, 45, 91, 103, 105,
overflow 25, 54, 61, 62, 63, 77, 85, 96, 99,               114
   101, 109, 120                                        Sapovirus 11
pathogens 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 80, 114                      SARS 3
penalties 31, 32, 40, 42                                scalding 12, 15, 16, 75
pesticide 8, 13, 79, 87, 96                             Schistosoma 11



                                                  128
                                                  INDEX



self-certification 5, 41, 42                              testable device 93
septic tank 8, 10, 14, 26, 34, 43, 80, 94,                testing 4, 5, 27, 35, 36, 37, 41, 42, 46, 47,
   104, 106                                                  81, 82
Serratia 12                                               toilet 4, 25, 54, 55, 74, 109, 111, 112, 114,
sewage 1, 3, 9, 11, 12, 14, 18, 26, 27, 54,                  115, 122, 123
   69, 73, 85, 90, 94, 95, 96, 99, 106, 107,              training 19, 21, 23, 27, 33, 43, 44, 45, 48,
   108, 110, 114, 115, 117, 118, 119, 120,                   49, 55, 105, 114
   121, 122                                               trap 3, 26, 33, 36, 54, 62, 64, 66, 68, 69,
sewerage 1, 2, 3, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 34,                70, 73, 80, 90, 91, 94, 99, 112, 118, 120,
   35, 43, 66, 73, 74, 75, 86, 90, 96, 99,                   121, 122
   103, 107, 108, 115, 120, 122                           treatment 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 18, 19,
shellfish 10                                                 23, 25, 26, 49, 52, 56, 75, 85, 88, 94, 95,
Shigella 11                                                  99, 105, 110, 114, 115, 120, 122
shut-off valve 57, 60, 86, 87, 90                         two-pipe system 66, 68
single dwelling 57, 58, 60, 64, 67, 75, 109               typhoid 11
single-stack system 69                                    urinal 25, 55, 59, 67, 83, 85, 112, 115
soakaway 98, 99, 100, 122                                 vacuum systems 72, 74, 75
specification 1, 15, 24, 28, 34, 35, 46, 47,              velocity (in pipe) 50, 58, 59, 67, 73, 74
   49, 57, 76                                             vent pipe 53, 65, 69, 73
stack pipe 64, 65, 66, 69                                 ventilation 3, 25, 64, 65, 69, 70, 93
standards 15, 18, 21, 23, 27, 28, 29, 30, 34,             Vibrio cholerae 11
   44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, 54, 79, 100,               virus 8, 10, 11, 115
   108, 114, 120                                          vitrified clay 53
standpipe 8, 24, 96, 103, 104, 105, 106,                  wastage 1, 24, 107, 108, 109, 110, 112, 113
   113                                                    waste 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 17, 20,
stop valve 61, 68, 113, 121                                  23, 24, 25, 26, 34, 37, 43, 51, 53, 63, 68,
storage tank 11, 37, 38, 39, 61, 62, 68, 71,                 70, 73, 80, 90, 94, 95, 98, 99, 100, 103,
   72, 75, 77, 79, 98, 100, 106, 113, 118,                   107, 108, 110, 114, 118, 119, 120, 121,
   122                                                       122
storm water 33, 34, 51, 53, 57, 80, 95, 96,               wastewater 3, 4, 16, 24, 25, 26, 28, 48, 49,
   98, 100, 107, 119, 122                                    54, 63, 66, 69, 73, 75, 80, 99, 103, 107,
supply vii, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 13, 18,              109, 114, 115, 122
   20, 21, 23, 24, 28, 30, 31, 37, 38, 42, 48,            water closet 4, 24, 25, 38, 59, 62, 63, 64,
   49, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58, 60, 61, 63, 67,               65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 83, 84, 106, 112, 114,
   68, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82,               116, 122
   83, 86, 90, 91, 93, 94, 100, 103, 104,                 water hammer 16, 113
   105, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113,                water heater 12, 16, 52, 59, 76, 111
   117, 118, 119, 121                                     water safety plan (WSP) x, 2, 18, 19
surface water 6, 10, 13, 14, 78, 96, 99,                  World Health Organization (WHO) vii,
   100, 122                                                  viii, ix, x, 2, 3, 14, 18, 23, 48, 105, 114
tap 2, 7, 8, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23, 25, 37, 38,              Yersinia enterocolitica 11
   48, 49, 54, 55, 62, 80, 87, 96, 98, 100,
   104, 107, 109, 111, 113
temperature 7, 12, 15, 16, 17, 25, 51, 52,
   53, 54, 60, 75, 76, 78, 79, 90, 111, 112,
   121, 122




                                                  129
