Heterotrophic Plate Counts and
Drinking-water Safety
The Significance of HPCs for Water Quality
and Human Health
Heterotrophic Plate Counts and
Drinking-water Safety
The Significance of HPCs for Water Quality
and Human Health




Edited by J. Bartram, J. Cotruvo, M. Exner,
C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher
Published on behalf of the World Health Organization by
IWA Publishing, Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London SW1H 0QS, UK
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7654 5500; Fax: +44 (0) 20 7654 5555; Email: publications@iwap.co.uk
www.iwapublishing.com

First published 2003
 World Health Organization 2003

Printed by TJ International (Ltd), Padstow, Cornwall, UK

Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as
permitted under the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1998), no part of this publication may
be reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in
writing of the publisher, or, in the case of photographic reproduction, in accordance with the terms
of licences issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency in the UK, or in accordance with the terms of
licenses issued by the appropriate reproduction rights organization outside the UK. Enquiries
concerning reproduction outside the terms stated here should be sent to IWA Publishing at the
address printed above.
The publisher makes no representation, express or implied, with regard to the accuracy of the
information contained in this book and cannot accept any legal responsibility or liability for errors or
omissions that may be made.

Disclaimer
The opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the
views or policies of the International Water Association, NSF International, or the World Health
Organization. IWA, NSF International, WHO and the editors will not accept responsibility for any loss
or damage suffered by any person acting or refraining from acting upon any material contained in this
publication.
    In addition, the mention of specific manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are
endorsed or recommended in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors
and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress

ISBN: 1 84339 025 6 (IWA Publishing)
ISBN: 92 4 156226 9 (WHO)
Contents



    Foreword                                                            vii
    Acknowledgements                                                     ix
    List of acronyms and abbreviations                                   xi
    Robert Koch                                                         xiv
1   Expert consensus                                                      1
    Expert Meeting Group Report
2   Public health aspects of the role of HPC — an introduction          12
    M. Exner, V. Vacata and J. Gebel
3   The history and use of HPC in drinking-water quality management     20
    P. Payment, D.P. Sartory and D.J. Reasoner
4   The presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                    49
    C.R. Fricker
5   Bacteria of potential health concern                                61
    N.F. Lightfoot
6   Relationships between common water bacteria and pathogens in        80
    drinking-Water
    H. Leclerc
7   Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence of disease linked to   119
    HPC Bacteria
    P.R. Hunter
vi                  HPC and Drinking-water Safety

8    Infections from HPC organisms in drinking-water amongst the     137
     Immunocompromised
     A. Glasmacher, S. Engelhart and M. Exner
9    Methods to identify and enumerate frank and opportunistic       146
     bacterial pathogens in water and biofilms
     N.J. Ashbolt
10   Conditions favouring coliform and HPC bacterial growth in       177
     drinking-water and on water contact surfaces
     M.W. LeChevallier
11   Managing regrowth in drinking-water distribution systems        199
     D. van der Kooij
12   The role of HPC in managing the treatment and distribution of   233
     drinking-water
     W. Robertson and T. Brooks
     Index                                                           245
Foreword




This monograph examines the appropriate role of the heterotrophic plate count
(HPC) measurement in drinking-water quality management. It was developed
from a two-day workshop attended by a group of microbiology and public
health experts, including those with regulatory and medical expertise, convened
by the World Health Organization and NSF International (WHO Collaborating
Centre for Drinking Water Safety and Treatment) in Geneva, Switzerland, on
25–26 April 2002. The workshop followed immediately after the International
Symposium on HPC Bacteria in Drinking Water — Public Health Implications?,
developed by the same organizations. The Session Chairs and other selected
participants in the symposium assembled in the workshop to address the issues
that led to the formulation of the symposium and to provide a consensus report
and conclusions to assist public health officials to interpret the information
provided by HPC measurements.
   The issues that were addressed include:
   •   the relationship between HPC in drinking-water systems (including
       those derived from in-line treatment systems, dispensers and bottled
       water) and health risks for the general public;
viii                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

       •   the role of HPC as an indirect indicator or index for pathogens of
           concern in drinking-water;
       •   the role of HPC in assessing the efficacy and proper functioning of
           water treatment and supply/distribution processes; and
       •   the relationship between HPC and the aesthetic acceptability of
           drinking-water.
    This report deals with safe water supply extending from source to consumer,
including plumbed-in devices, domestic and building environments, and water
supplied in bottles or packages. The different ways in which drinking-water may
be used in the home are considered, and specific concerns in higher-risk settings
and populations at increased risk are addressed.
    The Expert Meeting, supported by the papers in this monograph, addressed
that debate as to the need, utility or quantitative basis for health-based standards
or guidelines relating to HPC-measured growth in drinking-water and provided
their consensus conclusions in the Meeting Report (chapter 1). Each chapter was
originally the lead presentation in each session of the symposium. Each was
revised in light of the other presented papers, the debates and discussions, and
the Expert Meeting deliberations to reflect the scientific information that was
presented and the collective experiences of the members. This report is the
product of the Expert Meeting; its chapters were peer reviewed by members of
the expert group and the editors.
    We hope this document provides useful information and perspective on the
utility and the limitations of HPC data in the management and operation of piped
water systems, as well as other means of providing drinking-water to the public.


                                                                        J. Bartram
                                                                      J.A. Cotruvo
                                                                         M. Exner
                                                                      C.R. Fricker
                                                                    A. Glasmacher
Acknowledgements




The World Health Organization wishes to express its appreciation to all those
whose efforts made the production of this book possible. The international
group of experts and observers who attended the meeting on HPC measurement
in Geneva, Switzerland, in April 2002, many of whom contributed to individual
chapters in this book, comprised the following:

  Martin Allen, AWWA Research Foundation, Denver, CO, USA
  Nicholas Ashbolt, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
  Jamie Bartram, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
  Lucia Bonadonna, Istituto Superiore Di Sanita, Rome, Italy
  Keri Broughton, NSF International, Ann Arbor, MI, USA (administrative support)
  Joseph Cotruvo, J. Cotruvo & Associates, Washington, DC, USA
  David Cunliffe, Department of Human Services, Adelaide, Australia
  Chrissie De Wet, Rand Water, Vereenigine, South Africa
  Al Dufour, US Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA
  Stephen Edberg, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA
  Takuro Endo, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan
  Martin Exner, Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Bonn, Germany
x                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

    Janice Freytag, NSF International, Ann Arbor, MI, USA (administrative support)
    Colin Fricker, CRF Consulting, Reading, United Kingdom
    Charles Gerba, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
    Axel Glasmacher, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany
    Stan Hazan, NSF International, Ann Arbor, MI, USA (administrative support)
    Paul Hunter, University of East Anglia, Norwich, United Kingdom
    Mark LeChevallier, American Water Works Service Company, Voorhees,
         NJ, USA
    Henri Leclerc, Faculté de Médecine de Lille, Lille, France
    Nigel Lightfoot, PHLS North, New Castle Upon Tyne, United Kingdom
    Yasumoto Magara, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan
    Annick Moreau, Danone Water Technology Centre, Evian, France
    David A.A. Mossel, Eijkman Foundation for Public Health, Utrecht University,
         Utrecht, The Netherlands
    Dominique Olivier, Vivendi Water, Saint Maurice, France
    Pierre Payment, INRS-Institut Armand-Frappier, Laval, Quebec, Canada
    Donald Reasoner, US Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA
    Will Robertson, Health Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
    David Sartory, Severn Trent Water, Shrewsbury, United Kingdom
    Ralph Schubert, Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Health, Frankfurt am
         Main, Germany
    Melita Stevens, Melbourne Water, Melbourne, Australia
    Corry B. Struyk, Eijkman Foundation for Public Health, Utrecht University,
         Utrecht, The Netherlands
    Dick van der Kooij, Kiwa NV Water Research, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands

   We acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of all of the expert group members
and authors, and we thank the sponsors — the US Environmental Protection
Agency, Health Canada, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the
American Water Works Association Research Foundation — without whom this
work would not have been possible.
List of acronyms and abbreviations




AFLP      amplified fragment length polymorphism
AIDS      acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
ANSI      American National Standards Institute
AOC       assimilable organic carbon
AP-PCR    arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction
ARDRA     amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis
ATP       adenosine triphosphate
BDOC      biodegradable dissolved organic carbon
BFR       biofilm formation rate
BOM       biodegradable organic matter
BOX-PCR   high-stringency PCR assay targeting regions within various
          bacterial genomes and bordered by invertedly repeated elements
bp        base pair
BPP       biomass production potential
cDNA      complementary or copy DNA
cfu       colony-forming units
CI        confidence interval
CTC       cyanoditolyl tetrazolium chloride
xii          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

DGGE   denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
DNA    deoxyribonucleic acid
DOC    dissolved organic carbon
EC     European Community
EEC    European Economic Community
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
EU     European Union
FISH   fluorescence in situ hybridization
GAC    granular activated carbon
HIV    human immunodeficiency virus
HPC    heterotrophic plate count
ICU    intensive care unit
IF     immunofluorescence
Ig     immunoglobulin
IMS    immunomagnetic separation
INT    iodonitrotetrazolium
ISO    International Organization for Standardization
LMW    low molecular weight
MAC    Mycobacterium avium complex
MDOD   mean dissolved oxygen difference
MLEE   multilocus enzyme electrophoresis
MLST   multilocus sequence typing
MRD    Modified Robbins Device
mRNA   messenger RNA
OR     odds ratio
PAI    pathogenicity island
PCR    polymerase chain reaction
PET    polyethylene terephthalate
PFGE   pulsed field gel electrophoresis
PNA    peptide nucleic acid
POE    point-of-entry
POU    point-of-use
PVC    polyvinyl chloride
QMRA   quantitative microbial risk assessment
RAPD   random amplified polymorphic DNA
rDNA   ribosomal DNA
RFLP   restriction fragment length polymorphism
RNA    ribonucleic acid
rRNA   ribosomal RNA
SIV    simian immunodeficiency virus
SPC    standard plate count
           List of acronyms and abbreviations     xiii

SSCP   single-strand conformation polymorphism
TDC    total direct count
TGGE   temperature gradient gel electrophoresis
THM    trihalomethane
tRNA   transfer RNA
VBNC   viable but non-culturable
VTEC   verocytotoxigenic Escherichia coli
WHO    World Health Organization
WSP    water safety plan
Robert Koch




In 1883 Robert Koch published an article entitled: About Detection Methods for
Microorganisms in Water. In that historic paper that marked the introduction of
the application of microbial indicators for surveillance of water hygiene, Koch
described for the first time the methodology for HPC measurement in water, and
showed its value as a measure of water treatment technology performance. The
editors of this state-of-the-art review of the role and health significance of HPC
wish to recognize the contributions of Robert Koch to water microbiology on
this 120th anniversary of his original publication on the topic.
1
Expert consensus
Expert Meeting Group Report




1.1 DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE
1.1.1 Drinking-water
WHO considers that “drinking-water” should be “suitable for human
consumption and for all usual domestic purposes including personal hygiene.”
Diverse regulatory agencies adopt similar definitions. Drinking-water should
therefore be suitable for consumption, washing/showering and domestic food
preparation. In human health terms, exposure to water and its constituents can
occur through ingestion, contact and aerosol inhalation.
   Drinking-waters should be safe for lifetime use, taking account of differing
sensitivities that occur across life stages, but all are not necessarily suitable for
individuals suffering from certain specific immunocompromising disorders.
   Piped drinking-water supplies typically involve source abstraction, treatment
and distribution. The latter may include ancillary devices at domestic or
institutional levels, such as softeners, activated carbon treatment, vending
 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
2                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

machines, dispensers, etc. Drinking-waters also include those obtained from
non-piped sources, such as from springs and community wells, in bottles and as
ice.
   The control of faecal contamination in drinking-water systems and sources,
where it occurs, is of primary importance. Faecal-specific indicator bacteria
such as E. coli are the parameters of first importance in monitoring faecal
pollution.

1.1.2 Heterotrophic plate count
Heterotrophs are broadly defined as microorganisms that require organic carbon
for growth. They include bacteria, yeasts and moulds. A variety of simple
culture-based tests that are intended to recover a wide range of microorganisms
from water are collectively referred to as “heterotrophic plate count” or “HPC
test” procedures. Accordingly, the terms “heterotroph” and “HPC” are not
synonymous.
   There is no universal “HPC measurement.” Although standardized methods
have been formalized, HPC test methods involve a wide variety of test
conditions that lead to a wide range of quantitative and qualitative results.
Temperatures employed range from around 20 °C to 40 °C, incubation times
from a few hours to seven days or a few weeks, and nutrient conditions from
low to high. The test itself does not specify the organisms that are detected.
   Only a small proportion of the metabolically active microorganisms present
in a water sample may grow and be detected under any given set of HPC test
conditions, and the population recovered will differ significantly according to
the method used. The actual organisms recovered in HPC testing can also vary
widely between locations, between seasons and between consecutive samples at
a single location.
   Microorganisms recovered through HPC tests generally include those that are
part of the natural (typically non-hazardous) microbiota of water; in some
instances, they may also include organisms derived from diverse pollutant
sources.

1.1.3 Microbial growth in water
Microorganisms will normally grow in water and on surfaces in contact with
water as biofilms. Growth following drinking-water treatment is normally
referred to as “regrowth.” Growth is typically reflected in higher HPC values
measured in water samples. Elevated HPC levels occur especially in stagnant
parts of piped distribution systems, in domestic plumbing, in bottled water and
in plumbed-in devices, such as softeners, carbon filters and vending machines.
                                Expert consensus                                3

The principal determinants of regrowth are temperature, availability of nutrients
and lack of residual disinfectant. Nutrients may derive from the water body
and/or materials in contact with water.

1.1.4 Use of HPC in water management
HPC testing has a long history of use in water microbiology. At the end of the
19th century, HPC tests were employed as indicators of the proper functioning
of processes (and of sand filtration in particular) and thereby as indirect
indicators of water safety. Use as a safety indicator declined with the adoption
of specific faecal indicator bacteria during the 20th century.
   HPC measurements nevertheless continue to figure in water regulations or
guidelines in many countries. HPC measurements are used:

  •    to indicate the effectiveness of water treatment processes, thus as an
       indirect indication of pathogen removal;
  •    as a measure of numbers of regrowth organisms that may or may not
       have sanitary significance; and
  •    as a measure of possible interference with coliform measurements in
       lactose-based culture methods. This application is of declining value, as
       lactose-based culture media are being replaced by alternative methods
       that are lactose-free.


1.2 USES IN PIPED WATER SUPPLIES
1.2.1 Water safety plans
There is an increasing trend towards application of a comprehensive “water
safety plan” (WSP) approach to drinking-water supply safety management. This
approach is applicable throughout the water supply, from catchment to
consumer.
   It has been proposed that the WSP approach be included in the next (third)
edition of WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality and that this would
entail five components:

   (1) health-based targets based upon public health protection and disease
       prevention;
   (2) system assessment to determine whether the water supply chain (up to
       the point of consumption) as a whole can deliver water of a quality that
       meets the defined targets;
4                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

    (3) monitoring of the steps in the supply chain that are of particular
        importance in securing safe drinking-water;
    (4) management plans documenting the system assessment and monitoring
        and describing action to be undertaken from normal conditions to
        extreme events, including documentation and communication; and
    (5) systematic independent surveillance that verifies that the above are
        operating properly.

   Piped water systems of large buildings may incur greater growth than
encountered elsewhere (because of storage tanks, extensive internal distribution
networks and temperature-related growth). The principal health concerns in
these networks are cross-connections and growth of Legionella bacteria, which
are not detected by the HPC test procedures. General water safety is ensured by
maintenance protocols, regular cleaning, temperature management and
maintenance of a disinfectant residual. For these reasons, authorities responsible
for building safety should provide advice and require specific water
management safety plans.

1.2.2 Water quality targets
There is no evidence, either from epidemiological studies or from correlation
with occurrence of waterborne pathogens, that HPC values alone directly relate
to health risk. They are therefore unsuitable for public health target setting or as
sole justification for issuing “boil water” advisories. Abrupt increases in HPC
levels might sometimes concurrently be associated with faecal contamination;
tests for E. coli or other faecal-specific indicators and other information are
essential for determining whether a health risk exists.

1.2.3 Validation and verification
Experience suggests that HPC monitoring can be used in drinking-water
supplies along with other information for validation1 and verification2 of

    1
      Validation is an investigative activity to identify the effectiveness of a
control measure. It is typically an intensive activity when a system is initially
constructed or rehabilitated. It provides information on reliably achievable
quality improvement or maintenance to be used in system assessment in
preference to assumed values and also the operational criteria required to ensure
that the control measure contributes to effective control of hazards.
   2
     In addition to operational monitoring of the performance of the individual
components of a supply system, it is necessary to undertake final verification for
                                Expert consensus                                5

treatment process performance and other applications. These may include the
following:

   •   HPC measurements can be used to monitor the performance of filtration
       or disinfection processes.
   •   In piped distribution systems, HPC measurements are assumed to
       respond primarily to (and therefore provide a general indication of)
       distribution system conditions. These arise from stagnation, loss of
       residual disinfectant, high levels of assimilable organic carbon in the
       water, higher water temperature and availability of particular nutrients.
       In systems treated by chloramination or that contain ammonia in source
       waters, measurement of a variety of parameters, including HPC, but
       especially including nitrate and nitrite (which are regulated for health
       protection), can sometimes indicate the possible onset of nitrification.
  •    HPC values are also used in verification (and by some authorities also
       for validation) of efficacy of cleaning in diverse applications, including
       beverage vending machines, food processing and preparation facilities
       and medical devices. These applications of HPC have not been
       considered in this review.

1.2.4 Aesthetic quality
Drinking-water must be aesthetically acceptable as well as safe. Aesthetic
acceptability is directly relevant to health, since rejection of safe, but
unacceptable (undesirable), water may lead users to consume acceptable but
potentially unsafe alternative waters. HPC testing may be used in investigating
aesthetic quality, and it is used by some authorities as a marker for some of the
underlying causes of some aesthetic problems.




reassurance that the system as a whole is operating safely. Verification may be
undertaken by the supplier or by an independent authority or a combination of
these, depending on the administrative regime in a given country. It can include
testing for faecal indicator organisms, pathogens and hazardous chemicals.
6                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

1.3 USES IN NON-PIPED AND OTHER WATER SUPPLIES
1.3.1 Bottled water
Bottled (“packaged”) water is considered drinking-water under some regulatory
schemes and as a food in others. Some authorities distinguish between natural
mineral water and other bottled waters. The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-
water Quality are referred to directly in international norms (Codex
Alimentarius Commission) and are considered applicable to bottled waters.
   Bottled waters represent a specific growth situation for microbial flora.
Bottled waters may derive from “pristine” sources (“natural mineral water”) or
from processed waters. They may contain or have added carbon dioxide that
will restrict growth potential, but typically no long-lasting disinfectant residual
is present. The finished product will often be exposed to elevated (ambient)
temperatures over a period of days to weeks before consumption.
   Microorganisms naturally occurring in water are a normal part of the
microbiota of bottled waters that meet appropriate safety norms. Levels of HPC
recovered from bottled water post-distribution may therefore sometimes be
significantly higher than those found in municipal water supplies in distribution.
   Microbial safety for bottled waters is best pursued by a WSP approach (as
summarized in section 1.2.1). Pseudomonas aeruginosa and HPC values are
used by some as process management indicators in bottled water production and
not as health risk indicators.

1.3.2 Plumbed-in devices
Bacterial growth occurs in plumbed-in domestic water devices (including water
softeners, carbon filters, etc.) and plumbed-in commercial devices, such as
beverage vending machines. HPC values in water samples typically increase in
such devices. Increases of HPC (due to growth) in these devices therefore do not
indicate the existence of a health risk, as long as the entry water meets
acceptable microbial water quality norms (e.g., WHO Guidelines for Drinking-
water Quality). Appropriate maintenance of these devices is required for
aesthetic reasons (see section 1.2.4) — for example, per manufacturers’
recommendations. Plumbed-in devices in health care facilities are considered in
section 1.4.5.

1.3.3 Conveyances
Water systems on conveyances such as ships and aircraft present specific
challenges to water safety management. These include both physical
characteristics (extensive complex piping in confined space, physical
                                 Expert consensus                                  7

movement) as well as organizational issues, such as multiple responsible parties
in different locations and at different stages of delivery.
   In general, the potential roles for HPC in water safety management in
conveyances are similar to those elsewhere (see section 1.2.1). HPC
measurements alone are unsuitable for use in independent surveillance by, for
example, port health authorities where series results are unavailable; faecal
indicator bacteria measurements are essential in this role. This issue is dealt with
in the WHO Guide to Ship Sanitation and Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation in
Aviation, which are currently in revision.
   When drinking-water is stored in tanks in conveyances, microbial growth
invariably occurs. If HPC testing is conducted, the counts measured will often
exceed those normally found in piped distribution systems. Obtaining a high
count by the HPC test may indicate the need to examine procedures for taking
on water, maintenance of the system and disinfection.

1.3.4 Other water exposure media
Swimming pools and spas are outside the scope of this report. They are dealt
with in the WHO Guidelines for Safe Recreational Water Environments. The
role of HPC in humidifiers and air cooling systems is also outside the scope of
this report.


1.4 HEALTH ASPECTS
1.4.1 Exposure
Exposure to general HPC microbiota is far greater through foodstuffs than
through drinking-water. Levels of exposure regarded as acceptable from foods
are much greater than those regarded as acceptable from drinking-water.
Limited data are available with which to characterize exposure to specific
microorganisms through these two routes. Exposure to HPC microbiota also
occurs through air and other environmental sources.

1.4.2 Epidemiology
Some epidemiological studies have been conducted into the relationship
between HPC exposures from drinking-water and human health effects. Other
studies relevant to this issue include case-studies, especially in clinical
situations, and compromised animal challenge studies using heterotrophic
bacteria obtained from drinking-water distribution systems. The available body
8                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

of evidence supports the conclusion that, in the absence of faecal contamination,
there is no direct relationship between HPC values in ingested water and human
health effects in the population at large. This conclusion is also supported
indirectly by evidence from exposures to HPC in foodstuffs, where there is no
evidence for a health effects link in the absence of pathogen contamination.
   There are a small number of studies that have examined possible links
between HPC and non-intestinal outcomes in general populations. The conclu-
sions of these studies do not support a relatonship.

1.4.3 Health effects — specific organisms
Information on the association of specific HPC microbiota with health effects
may be derived from epidemiological studies, including outbreak investigations,
or from risk assessments.
   Bacteria typically described as “opportunistic pathogens” that may be
recovered among HPC microbiota include strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Acinetobacter spp., Aeromonas spp., Klebsiella pneumoniae, etc. There is no
evidence of an association of any of these with gastrointestinal infection through
the waterborne route among the general population.
   There are opportunistic pathogens that may regrow in water but that are not
detected in HPC measurements, including strains of Legionella and non-
tuberculous mycobacteria. The public health significance of inhalation exposure
to some legionellae has been demonstrated.
   There is no evidence that HPC levels per se, as measured by established
procedures, have a direct relationship to the likely presence of, or act as indices
for the numbers or presence of, regrowth organisms such as legionellae, P.
aeruginosa and non-tuberculous mycobacteria.

1.4.4 Populations at increased risk (including sensitivity
      through life stages)
Specific strains of microbial species that may be a part of HPC microbiota can
cause infection in certain vulnerable people (e.g., the immunocompromised and
those with indwelling urinary catheters, intravenous catheters, continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, etc.). Most infections due to these organisms are
from non-water sources (endogenous microbiota, cross-infection from other
persons in health care wards or the general environment). However, there have
been a number of outbreaks reported where the investigations may implicate the
water supply. The implication for infections of immunocompromised patients in
the general community is unclear.
                                 Expert consensus                                   9

    There are increasing numbers of persons who are immunocompromised to
various degrees and types living in communities, including some patients
discharged to “home care.” Normal “drinking-water” is not always suitable for
all such individuals for all uses (e.g., wound irrigation). This relates to water
safety in general and not to growth or HPC organisms in particular. Advice
should be provided by public health authorities to at-risk groups in general and
by practitioners responsible for individuals discharged to home care.
    Where the drinking-water supply meets international norms such as the
WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, only those people with severe
changes from normal, as determined by their physicians or medical agencies
(e.g., an absolute neutrophil count <500/µl), are considered immunosuppressed
to the extent that they may require specially processed drinking-water.

1.4.5 Health care facilities
Health care facilities include hospitals, health centres, dialysis facilities and
dental facilities. These facilities represent a general area of concern for infection
control because of the potentially increased susceptibility of the associated
population and their risk of infection from organisms growing in their
environment.
   Health care facilities should have WSPs as part of their infection control
strategy. Such plans may be generic (e.g., applicable to health centres in
general) or specific when applied to a larger built environment (e.g., many
hospitals and nursing homes). Such plans should address microbial growth in
addition to control of external contamination by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
Legionella and should include ancillary equipment such as shower heads and
medical devices, such as dialysis units and dental water dispensing equipment,
that involve patient contact.


1.5 OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS AND RESEARCH
The state of the evidence indicates that any further research on HPC in general
should focus on its use for process management and control applications as
described in section 1.2 and is not a high priority for public health protection.
   Because of ongoing interest, further research in this area is likely to occur. It
may usefully focus on:

   •   specific heterotrophic organisms of potential concern for human health,
       along with developments of future molecular techniques that may
       provide additional public health information;
10                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

     •   the immunocompromised (especially infection control in health care
         facilities and susceptible persons in the public at large);
     •   non-ingestion exposures (including aerosol exposure and hypersensi-
         tivity reactions) and roles of amoebae in biofilms;
     •   Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which are common in the environment and
         are occasionally found in drinking-water — they are sometimes
         associated with wound and other infections in high-risk populations;
     •   additional research on conditions and routes of exposure and control
         methods (when appropriate); and
     •   susceptible populations of relevance to exposure from drinking-water.

   The potential role of heterotrophic bacteria in preventing or reducing
colonization of water system components by organisms of human health
concern also merits further research.


1.6 REFERENCES
APHA-AWWA-WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
    Wastewater, 20th edn. American Public Health Association, American Water Works
    Association and Water Environment Federation, New York, NY.
Codex Alimentarius Commission (2001) General Standard for Bottled/Packaged
    Drinking Waters (other than Natural Mineral Waters). CODEX STAN 227-2001,
    Codex Committee on Natural Mineral Waters.
European Union (1998) Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality
    of water intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L330, 32–53.
Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J., ed. (2001) Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and
    Health. Risk Assessment and Management for Water-related Infectious Disease.
    IWA Publishing, London.
ISO (1999) Water Quality — Enumeration of Culturable Micro-organisms — Colony
    Count by Inoculation in a Nutrient Agar Culture Medium. International Standard
    ISO 6222:1999, International Organization for Standardization, Geneva.
Standing Committee of Analysts (2002a) The Microbiology of Drinking Water 2002 —
    Part 1 — Water Quality and Public Health. Methods for the Examination of Waters
    and Associated Materials, Environment Agency, London.
Standing Committee of Analysts (2002b) The Microbiology of Drinking Water 2002 —
    Part 7 — The Enumeration of Heterotrophic Bacteria by Pour and Spread Plate
    Techniques. Methods for the Examination of Waters and Associated Materials,
    Environment Agency, London.
Water Quality Association (2000) Guidelines for Disinfection and Sanitation of Water
    Treatment Equipment, 3rd edn. Publication No. E2, The Water Quality Association,
    Lisle, Illinois (www.wqa.org).
WHO (1993) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, vol. 1, Recommendations.
    World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, vol. 2, Health Criteria
    and Other Supporting Information. World Health Organization, Geneva.
                                Expert consensus                                 11

WHO (2002) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, Addendum:
  Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water. World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2003) Guidelines for Safe Recreational Water Environments, vol. 1, Coastal and
  Fresh Waters. World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Guidelines for Safe Recreational Water Environments, vol. 2,
  Swimming Pools, Spas and Similar Recreational Water Environments. World Health
  Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation in Aviation. World Health
  Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Guide to Ship Sanitation. World Health Organization, Geneva.
2
Public health aspects of the role of
HPC — an introduction
M. Exner, V. Vacata and J. Gebel




2.1 INTRODUCTION
The question of the public health implications of bacterial counts in water has
been raised ever since the introduction of plate counts for assessing water
quality by Robert Koch in 1883. In order to answer this question, we must
consider historical, current and future developments in our understanding of
bacterial counts for the purposes of hygienic assessment of drinking-water
quality. This chapter deals with important historical aspects of this issue and
recent developments in the field of heterotrophic plate counts (HPC), viewed
from a sociodemographic perspective.




 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
                      Public health aspects of the role of HPC                       13

2.2 HISTORICAL ASPECTS
In 1883, at the XI German Congress of Physicians in Berlin, Koch introduced a
report entitled “New methods for the detection of microorganisms in soil, air
and water.” The report came at a time when the bacterial origin of cholera was
not yet known. The introduced method consisted of adding 1 ml of water to a
nutritive gel, cultivating the gel at 22 °C for 48 h and counting the number of
colonies formed. In his report, Koch compared the bacterial growth stemming
from tap water, well water and river water. He showed that the procedure could
be used for checking the performance of point-of-use filtration systems in
households and demonstrated, using growth of pigmented and/or colourless
colonies, that a faulty/clogged filter could drastically worsen the quality of
water.
    With respect to the health risks linked to the presence of microorganisms in
water, Koch warned of the danger of false conclusions based on colony counts
alone. Until that time, there had been no laboratory methods that would allow
the detection of bacteria, and Koch saw no evidence of the presence of
pathogens among the variety of waterborne bacteria. He assumed that the level
of pathogens in water was low relative to the levels of other bacteria. In his
noted work “Water filtration and cholera,” published in 1893, he used the case
of the Altona waterworks, which drew water from the highly contaminated Elbe
River and processed it by slow sand filtration, to document how lowering the
level of waterborne bacteria to below 100 colonies/ml could prevent an outbreak
of cholera and/or typhoid fever epidemics. When this level rose above 1000
colonies/ml due to insufficient/faulty filtration of the contaminated water, an
outbreak of cholera resulted.
    The colony count was soon recognized as an excellent indicator of filtration
performance. Systematic observations after 1893 showed that sand filtration
could prevent outbreaks of waterborne diseases if 1 ml of water was not allowed
to contain more than 100 bacteria that could grow on nutritive medium at 20 °C
for 48 h and that could be counted under the magnifying glass. In Germany, the
limit of 100 bacteria/ml eventually became the standard for slow sand filtration
as well as for other filtration and sterilization methods (Gärtner 1915). However,
this prescribed limit deals with the general bacterial population only and does
not apply to pathogenic bacteria, such as Salmonella typhi and Vibrio cholerae.
    The limit of 100 bacteria/ml was the first epidemiologically based limit for
filtered water from infected sources that allowed the control of waterborne
gastrointestinal infections, such as cholera, typhoid fever and shigellosis.
    It is important to note that the limit of 100 colony-forming units (cfu)/ml is
not directly correlated to potential health risk. Rather, it reflects the efficiency of
14                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

the filtration process; in this sense, it is only indirectly correlated to the lowering
of the risk of infection, particularly for gastrointestinal infections that are
acquired by ingestion.
   The value of the parameter was related to the epidemic diseases then relevant
to Europe, i.e., cholera and typhoid fever, which, in contrast to the later-
discovered waterborne pathogens, such as enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli
or Cryptosporidium, have a high infectious dose. A more direct correlation
between the level of waterborne pathogens and health risk was made possible
only after the introduction of faecal load-indicative bacteria, such as E. coli and
faecal streptococci.
   Colony count alone does not allow one to draw any conclusions concerning
the risk of infection. Rather, it is a yardstick for:

     •   the efficacy of filtration processes, such as slow sand filtration and
         point-of-use filtration;
     •   the efficiency of disinfection;
     •   bacterial levels in areas with an increased contamination potential; and
     •   biostability of household plumbing systems.

   The colony count, first determined for incubation temperatures of 20 °C and
later also for 37 °C (which allows the inclusion of human pathogens), always
has the function of a surrogate parameter comparable to that of turbidity and/or
particle count. This tradition is the basis of the German regulation requiring that
the colony count be determined after a 48-h growth at 20 °C and/or 37 °C, as
well as of the binding limit value of 100 cfu/ml in water taken from the tap of
the household end user. Both of these requirements are part of the German
Drinking Water Regulation.


2.3 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Three factors have influenced recent developments in the field of colony
counting for the purposes of hygienic assessment of drinking-water quality:

     •   the improved nutritive composition of agars, which supports growth of a
         broader spectrum of waterborne bacteria;
     •   the discovery in the late 1960s of biofilms, in which most of the
         microorganisms present in water distribution systems persist and which
         determine the level of free-floating microorganisms in water; and
     •   new procedures that allow identification of a wider spectrum of
         waterborne bacteria.
                    Public health aspects of the role of HPC                    15

2.3.1 New procedure for determining colony counts
Only a small fraction (approximately 0.01%) of waterborne microorganisms are
thought to belong to the group of culturable heterotrophic bacteria, and
approximately 1% of the viable bacteria are not culturable. Using newer
detection methods (Reasoner and Geldreich 1985), it is possible to significantly
increase the proportion of pigmented and non-pigmented bacteria that can be
cultured from drinking-water. The use of media with low nutrient levels (e.g.,
R2A), which are better suited to the needs of water microflora, allows an
increase in the proportion of waterborne microorganisms that can be determined
by the cultivation method. A disadvantage of the method is the longer
cultivation time (5–7 days at 28 °C), which reduces its value as a parameter for
the measurement of the efficiency of processes.

2.3.2 Biofilms
Biofilms represent a specific form of bacterial colonization of water distribution
systems. These specific forms determine the biostability of the microbial
communities, their persistence and the release of planktonic cell microorganisms
into the running water. The biofilms interact with waterborne pathogens and
affect their persistence (LeChevallier and McFeters 1985). The persistence of
these pathogens is considerably increased if they form a new biofilm or colonize
an existing one. The biofilms thus represent bioreactors within water
distribution systems, in which the resistance of the microorganisms to
disinfection is significantly increased. The potential for biofilm formation and
growth is particularly high in narrow-gauge household plumbing. The colony
count is directly correlated with the water volume that flows through these end-
of-line systems.

2.3.3 Risks from bacteria detected in water
A number of studies have yielded virtually the same characteristic spectrum of
heterotrophic bacterial strains. The predominant species in this spectrum are
Acinetobacter spp., Aeromonas spp., Alcaligenes spp., Comamonas spp.,
Enterobacter spp., Flavobacterium spp., Klebsiella spp., Moraxella spp.,
Pseudomonas spp., Sphingomonas spp., Stenotrophomonas spp., atypical
Mycobacterium spp., Bacillus spp. and Nocardia (Burlingame et al. 1986;
LeChevallier et al. 1987; Payment et al. 1988; Payment 1989; Reasoner et al.
1989; Manaia et al. 1990; Edberg et al. 1997; Rusin et al. 1997; Norton and
LeChevallier 2000).
16                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   Studies by Norton and LeChevallier (2000) showed characteristic changes in
bacterial populations through potable water treatment and distribution.
Therefore, it appears to be necessary to ensure that water treatment and
distribution do not cause a shift in the composition of the bacterial population
that would favour opportunistic pathogens.
   The species predominant in households, particularly in warm-water
distribution systems, are legionellas and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The
occurrence of infectious fungal strains, such as Fusarium spp. and Aspergillus
spp., in household systems has been reported only recently (Anaissie et al.
2001).
   There is no clear-cut evidence that heterotrophic bacteria as such pose a
public health risk, particularly when they are ingested by healthy people via
drinking-water (Rusin et al. 1997; Colford et al. 2002).
   A risk assessment performed by Rusin et al. (1997) on animals as well as on
human volunteers yielded the oral doses of different microorganisms that are
necessary to cause an infection: Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 108–109 cfu;
Aeromonas hydrophila, >1010 cfu; Mycobacterium avium, 104–107 cfu; and
Xanthomonas maltophilia, 106–109 cfu.
   The risk characterization by Rusin et al. (1997) showed that “risks of
infection from oral ingestion ranged from a low of 7.3 × 10–9 (7.3/billion) for
low exposures to Aeromonas to higher risks [of 9 × 10–2 (9/100)] predicted at
higher levels of exposure to Pseudomonas … This higher risk was only
predicted for individuals on antibiotics. Overall, the evidence suggests that
specific members of HPC bacteria found in drinking water may be causative
agents of both hospital- and community-acquired infections. However, the case
numbers may be very low and risks represent levels generally less than 1/10,000
for a single exposure to the bacterial agent.”
   The number of cases of pulmonary diseases associated with Mycobacterium
avium is rapidly increasing (Rusin et al. 1997) and in some areas is approaching
the incidence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The epidemiological significance
of this waterborne opportunistic pathogen is still not clearly defined (Anaissie et
al. 2001). [Editors’ note: Because of the wide interest in the potential health
significance of some non-tuberculous mycobacteria in water, including
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), this is the theme of a separate book in
the same series as this volume.]
   These risk assessments are primarily based on potential infection by
ingestion; the risk is considerably higher for persons undergoing antibiotic
therapy or immunodeficient persons (LeChevallier and McFeters 1985;
LeChevallier et al. 1987; Reasoner et al. 1989; Rusin et al. 1997; Norton and
LeChevallier 2000; Anaissie et al. 2001). These risk assessments are not
                    Public health aspects of the role of HPC                   17

applicable to dermal or inhalation exposure or to persons with invasive devices,
such as indwelling urinary catheters or intravenous catheters.
   Furthermore, the operation and cleaning of devices, particularly medical
devices using drinking-water, need to be taken into account. Contamination of
these devices with waterborne heterotrophic microorganisms can lead to
multiplication of microorganisms (regrowth) in the devices, leading to a
significant risk of infection (e.g., by inhalation or by endoscopes). The cooling
water of dental units, which is sprayed into the patient’s mouth, is also often
heavily contaminated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
   Under such conditions, even low concentrations of certain heterotrophic
microorganisms, particularly for people on antibiotics, with immunosuppression
or with invasive devices, can be sufficient to cause serious infectious
complications. These specific circumstances call for a more detailed assessment.


2.4 ALTERED BASIC CONDITIONS
The altered sociodemographic situation in western societies is reflected in the
substance and scope of national regulations concerning drinking-water hygiene.

2.4.1 The scope of national drinking-water regulations
In order to protect health, we need to know the quality of water consumed/used,
which may be very different from both that “supplied” to the consumer (i.e.,
entering the house) and that “manufactured” by the supplier. Current national
regulations usually do not cover the whole distribution system to the consumer’s
tap. The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO 1993, 1998)
provide the framework and the “scientific point of departure” for the European
Community (EC) and national drinking-water directives. These Guidelines
already form the basis for EC Council Directive 98/83 EC as well as the
forthcoming German Drinking Water Regulation, which set rules for water
quality intended for human use. Such water is presumed to be used for drinking,
for preparation of food and drinks, for washing and body care, and for cleansing
of objects that come into contact with the human body. It is not allowed to
contain pathogens at concentrations that could endanger human health. The
stringent regulations must be met all the way to the consumer’s tap. In this
context, there is now a need to answer the question regarding to what extent
HPC can affect distribution system materials, household point-of-use or point-
of-entry water treatment equipment, bottled water, water vending machines,
beverages and water coolers.
18                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

2.4.2 Regulations for water quality in high-risk areas
There has been a dramatic increase in infections caused by microorganisms,
including certain heterotrophic microorganisms that are found in water (Huang
et al. 2002). Particular attention will have to be paid to securing the necessary
water quality in high-risk areas, such as hospitals and places where
immunosuppressed patients are treated. In these areas, HPC is used by some
authorities for indicating the risk of the presence of opportunistic pathogens
(Hargreaves et al. 2001). These are also the areas in which the HPC-
determinable pathogens (Pseudomonas spp., Burkholderia, Stenotrophomonas)
pose a high risk of infection for vulnerable persons.

2.4.3 Changes in sociodemographic conditions
The number of immunosuppressed and catheterized patients continues to
increase. There is an even more dramatic growth in domestic ambulatory care.
Hospitals are no longer the only places in which patients are treated with
antibiotics or invasive catheterization.


2.5 REFERENCES
Anaissie, E.J., Kuchar, R.T., Rex, J.H., Francesconi, A., Kasai, M., Muller, F.M.,
     Lozano-Chiu, M., Summerbell, R.C., Dignani, M.C., Chanock, S.J. and Walsh, T.J.
     (2001) Fusariosis associated with pathogenic fusarium species colonization of a
     hospital water system: a new paradigm for the epidemiology of opportunistic mold
     infections. Clin. Infect. Dis. 33, 1871–1878.
Burlingame, G.A., Suffet, I.H. and Pipes, W.O. (1986) Predominant bacterial genera in
     granular activated carbon water treatment systems. Can. J. Microbiol. 32, 226–230.
Colford, J.M., Jr., Rees, J.R., Wade, T.J., Khalakdina, A., Hilton, J.F., Ergas, I.J., Burns,
     S., Benker, A., Ma, C., Bowen, C., Mills, D.C., Vugia, D.J., Juranek, D.D. and
     Levy, D.A. (2002) Participant blinding and gastrointestinal illness in a randomized,
     controlled trial of an in-home drinking water intervention. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 8, 29–
     36.
Edberg, S.C., Kops, S., Kontnick, C. and Escarzaga, M. (1997) Analysis of cytotoxicity
     and invasiveness of heterotrophic plate count bacteria (HPC) isolated from drinking
     water on blood media. J. Appl. Microbiol. 82, 455–461.
Gärtner, A. (1915) Die Hygiene des Wassers, F. Vieweg, Braunschweig.
Hargreaves, J., Shireley, L., Hansen, S., Bren, V., Fillipi, G., Lacher, C., Esslinger, V.
     and Watne, T. (2001) Bacterial contamination associated with electronic faucets: a
     new risk for healthcare facilities. Infect. Control Hosp. Epidemiol. 22, 202–205.
Huang, S.S., Labus, B.J., Samuel, M.C., Wan, D.T. and Reingold, A.L. (2002) Antibiotic
     resistance patterns of bacterial isolates from blood in San Francisco County,
     California, 1996–1999. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 8, 195–201.
LeChevallier, M.W. and McFeters, G.A. (1985) Interactions between heterotrophic plate
     count bacteria and coliform organisms. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49, 1338–1341.
                      Public health aspects of the role of HPC                       19

LeChevallier, M.W., Babcock, T.M. and Lee, R.G. (1987) Examination and
    characterization of distribution system biofilms. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 53,
    2714–2724.
Manaia, C.M., Nunes, O.C., Morais, P.V. and da Costa, M.S. (1990) Heterotrophic plate
    counts and the isolation of bacteria from mineral waters on selective and enrichment
    media. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 69, 871–876.
Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000) A pilot study of bacteriological population
    changes through potable water treatment and distribution. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
    66(1), 268–276.
Payment, P. (1989) Bacterial colonization of domestic reverse-osmosis water filtration
    units. Can. J. Microbiol. 35, 1065–1067.
Payment, P., Gamache, F. and Paquette, G. (1988) Microbiological and virological
    analysis of water from two water filtration plants and their distribution systems.
    Can. J. Microbiol. 34, 1304–1309.
Reasoner, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1985) A new medium for the enumeration and
    subculture of bacteria from potable water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49, 1–7.
Reasoner, D.J., Blannon, J.C., Geldreich, E.E. and Barnick, J. (1989) Nonphotosynthetic
    pigmented bacteria in a potable water treatment and distribution system. Appl.
    Environ. Microbiol. 55, 912–921.
Rusin, P.A., Rose, J.B., Haas, C.N. and Gerba, C.P. (1997) Risk assessment of
    opportunistic bacterial pathogens in drinking water. Rev. Environ. Contam. Toxicol.
    152, 57–83.
WHO (1993) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, vol. 1, Recommendations. World
    Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (1998) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, addendum to vol. 1,
    Recommendations. World Health Organization, Geneva.
3
The history and use of HPC in
drinking-water quality management
P. Payment, D.P. Sartory and D.J. Reasoner




3.1 INTRODUCTION
As civilizations developed, it became evident that water, especially good quality
water, was necessary for their advancement. For centuries, good water was
defined as water that was clear, pleasant to the taste and not malodorous. Good
food had similar requirements. However, both contaminated water and food
were still the causes of countless deaths. Outbreaks of cholera and typhoid
occurred for centuries, but the role of water in these outbreaks was not
demonstrated until 1849–1854. John Snow identified water as the source of a
cholera outbreak in London and became the father of modern epidemiology.
Even at the time of Snow, smell, appearance, taste and chemical analysis were
the only analytical tools that the water analysts had to determine the
wholesomeness of drinking-water. Too often they were wrong, and outbreaks
were frequent.
 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
                             History and use of HPC                             21

   By the end of the 19th century, with the development of bacteriology, culture
media and the gelatin plate, it became possible to obtain what appeared to be
quite accurate counts of germs by counting the number of colonies developing
on these plates within a defined set of conditions. The simplicity of the method
was such that it was rapidly put to use by the 19th-century sanitarians. Air,
water, soil, food, humans and animals were all studied to determine where and
how germs lived, as they were apparently responsible for a wide variety of
waterborne and foodborne diseases.
   We are now in the early 21st century, and, reading the accounts of these
19th-century sanitarians, there is a striking resemblance between our so-called
modern problems and the problems they had to resolve. The questions they
raised are the same ones that we are discussing now. In terms of water quality, it
is quite fascinating to observe that the orders of magnitude of the numerical
values used to define good quality water have remained the same. While much
has been written on the subject of water bacteriology, the books of Hamlyn
(1990) and Prescott and Winslow (1904) provide a magnificent view of early
water bacteriology.


3.2 GERMS AND DISEASE: FROM DISCOVERY TO
    CULTIVATION
Counting microbes is an exercise that has been taking place since the advent of
the microscope. Through his simple single-lens microscope, Antoni van
Leeuwenhoek in 1673 was probably the first to see microbes. Others followed,
but the poor resolution of their lenses did not offer a very precise view of the
bacterial world. By the 1830s, quality achromatic objectives had been developed
and microscopes were being made that opened a new world to the eyes of the
bacteriologists.
   In England, John Snow demonstrated that water played a significant role in
cholera outbreaks. In 1854, another severe epidemic of cholera occurred in
London. Through painstaking documentation of cholera cases and correlation of
the comparative incidence of cholera among subscribers to the city’s two water
companies, Snow showed that cholera occurred much more frequently in
customers of the water company that drew its water from the lower Thames,
which was contaminated with London sewage, than in customers of the other
company, which obtained its water from the upper Thames.
   By 1861, Louis Pasteur had disproved the spontaneous generation theory,
and he later demonstrated the link between germs and disease. Robert Koch
described a mechanism whereby a disease such as cholera was spread: it was
22                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

excreted in faeces, was transported to water and then infected those who
subsequently drank the water. A similar mode of transmission was later
described for typhoid fever, and subsequent interest in the role of water in the
transmission of disease was thus initially focused on these two infections.
   In 1872, Ferdinand Cohn developed a bacterial culture medium containing
ammonium salts and yeast ash complemented with various sugars; this medium
provided the bacteriologist with a tool to test the growth requirements of
bacteria. In 1881, Koch published a paper in which he described the gelatin
plate method — a revolution in bacteriology — for growing pure cultures of
bacteria. Obtaining pure cultures was now easier, and the enumeration of germs
was possible. In 1882, the use of agar instead of gelatin was introduced, and in
1887, Richard Julius Petri invented the petri dish.
   The birth of microbiology in 19th-century Europe was the basis for water and
food microbiology and the first step in understanding the role of water and food
as vehicles for the transmission of disease (Beck 2000). Growing germs was not
an easy task, but bacteriologists were discovering the basic nutrients that these
germs needed to grow. They now had the tools to study water and food. These
methods were rapidly adopted by sanitarians from all countries on both sides of
the Atlantic.


3.3 KOCH: ASSESSING FILTER EFFICIENCY AND
    SETTING LIMITS
Water filtration had been introduced in 1804 in Scotland as a means of
producing better quality water for a clothes-washing industry. Water from the
River Cart was passed through trenches filled with stones before being passed
through a ring-shaped settling chamber. The water was clear and contained less
suspended solids, thereby not soiling the clothes. Because the process produced
more water than needed, the surplus was sold to the town inhabitants. The
product was of good quality, and others rapidly followed this lead. The first
sand filters were developed by James Simpson in England in the 1820s.
    By the end of the century, it was common to have filtered water, and the
protective effect of this filtration was dramatically demonstrated in 1892 in
Germany. The Elbe River, near Hamburg, was contaminated by sewage from a
cholera-stricken refugee camp. Hamburg experienced an outbreak that killed
over 7000 people, while the city of Altona, using the same water but filtered,
experienced only a few cases unrelated to the water. Koch investigated this
outbreak and exchanged information with water analysts all over Europe. He
suggested that filtering was better than not filtering, that careful management of
filters was better than poor management, that even careful management could
                             History and use of HPC                              23

not protect the public absolutely, and finally that “when all was said and done,
he, personally, would rather not drink this filtered water at all. Yet one had to
live with uncertainty, to trust something less than rigorous demonstration, and
be satisfied with estimates of risk.”
   Overall, the rudimentary bacteriological analysis of all types of water during
these catastrophic outbreaks led the early sanitarians to better quality source
water and water treatment and thereby a reduction in waterborne outbreaks. It
also pointed out the value of water treatment to protect public health. Koch
proposed a limit of 100 cfu/ml as the objective to protect public health. This
value was proposed to assess the “purity” of source water and, hence, its
usability as a source of drinking-water. It was also proposed as a means to
assess water filtration efficiency in order to produce safe drinking-water from
“impure” sources. It was only later that the same value was also used to evaluate
the efficiency of the disinfection of drinking-water by chlorine and other means.
For several years, Koch had also been analysing waters and counting colonies
that grew in agar at “blood heat,” thinking that these organisms would likely
include pathogens.
   The value proposed by Koch has remained unchanged until today and has
apparently remained aimed at the protection of public health by a more or less
direct evaluation of source water and treatment. Since the discovery of water
bacteria and their relation to disease, the United Kingdom and the USA
approached the plate count with two different philosophies, as described in
sections 3.4 and 3.5 below.


3.4 WATER MICROBIOLOGY: THE UNITED KINGDOM
    EXAMPLE
3.4.1 Early water microbiology
Although Robert Koch had demonstrated the use of solid media for culturing
bacteria in London in 1881, it was only in 1884 that British water analysts and
sanitarians began to take interest in it and The Lancet published a lengthy
description of the plate culturing method, noting that “the numbers and nature of
the organisms present in a sample of water may be estimated and ascertained”
using this technique. The book of Hamlyn (1990) presents an account of British
efforts to understand water quality and control waterborne diseases; it has been
an inspiration for this section.
   The simplicity of the technique was its greatest problem, as it tempted those
with little or no bacteriological training to try the process. Many recognized that
the method required skills in order to obtain accurate results, but the British
24                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

sanitarians realized that bacteriological examination ought to be carried out on a
widespread basis for the examination of water supplies and for ascertaining the
relative value of domestic filters.
   One of the early advocates of bacteriology was Percy Frankland (1858–
1946), who worked with his father at the School of Mines, where he was an
assistant in the water laboratory. After learning of the plate culturing method at
an exhibition in London, he visited Koch’s laboratory to master this new
method. Frankland used the method from 1885 onward to measure the numbers
of bacteria in water and evaluate the efficiency of filtration. He observed what is
now well established: filters are effective for the removal of bacteria, they lose
their efficiency with time, and smaller filters become clogged and support
bacterial growth. In his words, this was an “exceedingly beautiful and ingenious
test for ascertaining the number of individual organisms present in a given
water,” with “little value” for distinguishing bacterial types (quoted in Hamlyn
1990). Overall, more and more people agreed that plate cultures showed the
value of filtration in removing microorganisms.
   Many questions on these methods were also raised at the time; surprisingly,
they are still familiar even to modern water bacteriologists.
   Was gelatin-peptone the best medium? What was the sensitivity of the
medium for waterborne pathogens? Comparison of media and their ability to
support pathogens became a familiar exercise. Lower counts on nutrient-rich
media and upon incubation at “blood temperature” were observed, as was the
poor growth of pathogens on nutrient-poor media. By the late 1890s, most
analysts would insist that use of several media was necessary if one was to
speak confidently on the bacterial content of a water.
   What was the relationship between the bacteria in the water and the
bacterial counts and species growing on the plates? Having observed the
bacteria under the microscope and recorded different counts of bacteria on
different culture media, scientists realized that the number of colonies that grew
on the plate could not be regarded as the true total number of bacteria in the
water.
   What do the bacterial counts indicate? To the British, it became rapidly
evident that these determinations indicated what would be the probable fate of
pathogens gaining access to the water supply and their potential to reach the
consumers. A method of treatment reducing the largest proportion of organisms
of all kinds would also be the most likely to reduce pathogens should they be
present.
   Interpretation of the data was becoming controversial: some questioned the
bacterial counts, since microbial populations would rapidly increase in suitable
conditions. Koch had suggested a standard of 100 colonies/ml as the limit of
acceptability, but what would be the risk of drinking that “acceptable” water if
                             History and use of HPC                             25

after a week in a container it contained 10 000 colonies/ml? The same question
is raised today.
    The use of plate counts became widespread, and an incubation temperature of
18–22 °C became the norm, with daily examination of plates for up to five days
(Horrocks 1901). Additional counts of bacteria after incubating a second set of
plates for 40–48 h at 36–38 °C were recommended in 1904 (Royal Institute of
Public Health 1904), as these bacteria were considered more likely to represent
those that could grow in the human body and, therefore, could be indicative of
faecal contamination, although it was recognized that many other naturally
occurring bacteria were also capable of growing at this temperature (Savage
1906). During this time, counts at 18–22 °C or 20–22 °C were typically
conducted using nutrient gelatin plates, and those at 37 °C were conducted using
nutrient agar plates (Royal Institute of Public Health 1904; Savage 1906).

3.4.2 Early use of heterotrophic plate counts (HPC)
Formal guidance on the bacteriological examination of water supplies and the
interpretation of results was first published by the United Kingdom Ministry of
Health in 1934 (Anonymous 1934) as what was to become universally known as
“Report 71.” The recommended method involved dispensing 1-ml aliquots of
water, mixing with nutrient agar and incubation of one set of plates at 20–22 °C
for three days and another set at 37 °C for two days, which, apart from a change
of medium, has continued to today and is widely used throughout the world. The
number of bacteria enumerated at 20–22 °C was said to give “some indication of
(1) the amount of food substance available for bacterial nutrition and (2) the
amount of soil, dust and other extraneous material that had gained access to the
water,” whereas the count at 37 °C “affords more information as to dangerous
pollution,” as “the organisms developing at this temperature are chiefly those of
soil, sewage, or intestinal origin, and their number, therefore, may be used as an
index of the degree of purity of the water” (Anonymous 1934). The report also
stated that the colony count of a single sample had comparatively little
significance and that “it is difficult to state limits which, if exceeded, involve
unfavourable comment on the hygienic quality of the water.” The ratio of the
count at 22 °C to that at 37 °C was said to be helpful in explaining sudden
fluctuations, with high ratios being associated with bacteria of clean soil or
water saprophyte origin and, therefore, of “small significance” (Anonymous
1934). This approach was reaffirmed in the second edition of Report 71,
published five years later (Anonymous 1939).
26                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

3.4.3 Guidance on the use of HPC
Experience gained over the next 17 years, however, led to a change of emphasis
in the third edition of Report 71 (Anonymous 1956; Society for Water
Treatment and Examination 1956), which stated that “although plate counts at
22 °C and 37 °C reflect by an increase in the numbers, particularly at the higher
temperature, the access of faecal pollution, they are not now usually employed
for this purpose.” Their principal use was now one of a more general detection
of “any form of contamination,” maintaining their role as indicators and not a
health parameter in their own right. The report presented a review of the agar
plate count (written by E. Windle Taylor, then Director of Water Examination of
the Metropolitan Water Board, London), which discussed the wide variability of
numbers of bacteria from differing water types and sources and technical
aspects of the method, concluding that “high plate counts at either temperature,
even if confirmed, do not necessarily indicate that a water is a danger to health.”
They were, however, “undesirable since the presence of large numbers of
bacteria in water may cause food spoilage.” The key value of plate counts was
their use in assessing the efficacy of water treatment processes, providing an
“estimate of the general hygienic quality of a water” (particularly with regard to
food production), and “a rising plate count may give the earliest sign of
pollution” (e.g., in wells) (Anonymous 1956). This interpretation of the value of
plate counts was reiterated in the fourth and fifth editions of Report 71
(Anonymous 1969, 1982), which also stated that “colony counts are not
essential for assessing the safety of domestic water supplies.” The fourth edition
also introduced yeast extract agar as the medium of choice for the enumeration
of colony counts and confirmed an incubation time of only 24 h for counts at
37 °C, introduced in the 1956 third edition. The 1982 fifth edition also noted
that “organisms which grow best at 37 °C usually grow less readily in water and
are more likely to have gained access from external sources” and that “a sudden
increase ... would call for immediate investigation since it might be an early sign
of more specific or serious pollution” (Anonymous 1982). All reference to the
use of HPC to potentially indicate faecal contamination had been dropped.

3.4.4 Interpretation of HPC levels
Significant strides in the understanding of microbial behaviour, particularly with
regard to heterotrophic bacterial populations, in water supplies during the 1980s
and 1990s were reflected in the sixth edition of Report 71, published in 1994
(Standing Committee of Analysts 1994). The three key areas where plate counts
were of value, outlined in the 1956 third edition, remained, but multiplication of
bacteria within distribution systems due to available nutrients (assimilable
                             History and use of HPC                             27

organic carbon) in the water or fixtures and fittings and the growth of biofilms
and their potential role in taste and odour problems were also recognized
(interestingly, a relationship between available nutrients and bacterial growth
had been alluded to in the 1934 and 1939 editions of Report 71, but not since).
The report stated that “in practice, changes in the pattern of colony counts of
samples from a given water supply are usually more significant than the actual
numerical count of any particular sample” and that “the counts themselves have
little direct health significance.” The report recognized that some potentially
opportunistic pathogens (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas sp.)
may be part of the colony count population, and “their appearance in large
numbers in water indicates that conditions in the distribution system have
become suitable for growth as opposed to survival of these organisms.”
However, it concluded that without evidence of faecal contamination, “elevated
colony counts should not be viewed with concern in terms of the health of the
population as a whole.” Regular enumeration of colony counts from a
distribution system did, however, provide useful data with which to assess any
long-term trends in the general microbial quality of drinking-water.
    This interpretation of the use of colony counts is retained in the seventh
edition of the guidance (Standing Committee of Analysts 2002a, 2002b),
prepared with regard to the new United Kingdom legislation (Anonymous 2000)
arising from the 1998 European Union (EU) Directive (European Union 1998).
The guidance re-emphasizes that “it is not the absolute numbers of colony count
bacteria enumerated from a supply that are of importance, but whether there are
significant changes or long-term trends in those numbers.” Although the
requirement to enumerate colony counts at 37 °C is no longer stipulated in the
EU Directive, it has been retained in the United Kingdom legislation and is still
considered to be of some value, “in that it can provide an early indication of a
significant deterioration in quality before coliform bacteria or other indicator
bacteria are detected (for example, due to ingress into a distribution system)”
(Standing Committee of Analysts 2002a).
    This edition also reintroduced the option of incubating 37 °C plates for up to
48 h (Standing Committee of Analysts 2002b), as had been the norm prior to
1956, and is also in agreement with the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) standard ISO 6222:1999 (ISO 1999), stipulated by the
1998 EU Directive (European Union 1998) as the method to be used. The lower
incubation range in the ISO standard is 22 °C ± 2 °C, which is a wider range
than the 20–22 °C historically used in the United Kingdom and recommended
by the United Kingdom guidance (Standing Committee of Analysts 2002b).
    When the United Kingdom adopted the first EU Directive on drinking-water
(European Union 1980), the guideline values for plate counts (10/ml at 37 °C
28                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

and 100/ml at 22 °C) were not formally included. Instead, the regulations stated
that there should be “no significant increase over that normally observed”
(Anonymous 1989a). Guidance from the regulators (Anonymous 1989b) stated
that “continuous review is needed of colony counts” and that further
investigation should be taken if “there is a sudden and unexpected increase in a
colony count, particularly the 37 °C count, compared with that normally found”
or “there is a significant trend of increasing colony counts in the supply over a
period of a few years.” Both the current EU Directive (European Union 1998)
and United Kingdom regulations (Anonymous 2000) do not set numerical
standards or guideline values for colony counts, which are defined as indicator
parameters, but state that there should be “no abnormal change.” This is in
keeping with the approach that colony counts are an operational tool for the
management of water quality in distribution systems. It does, however, beg the
question as to what an “abnormal change” is. There is currently no official
guidance on this in the United Kingdom (or Europe), and, consequently, there
are several approaches that have been adopted by water suppliers.
    Many suppliers employ simple numerical values for an indication of an
abnormal change in counts from regulatory samples; some have based these
values on the guideline values of the first EU Directive (European Union 1980),
whereas others have adopted higher values (e.g., >10, >20, >50, >100, >200,
>300, >500, >1000 cfu/ml at 22 °C or 37 °C). These values generally serve as
triggers to review previous data and make an assessment of any significance of
the increase. Some have established arbitrary levels of increase ranging from 0.5
log to >2.3 log increases over previous results. This has the advantage that it
automatically takes into account the natural rise and fall in heterotrophic
bacterial populations that occur during the seasons. A few suppliers have
adopted a statistical approach (several others indicated that they were also
investigating a statistical approach), based upon a comparison with mean counts.
The time base of the data for which mean counts are calculated can vary,
depending upon the seasonal variation in the counts and the frequency of
analysis, with some covering the previous few weeks and others a period of a
year or more (e.g., 20 times a three-year mean, >3 standard deviations from
previous six results, >1.5 times a 12-month rolling mean or the >98th percentile
of rolling annual mean).

3.4.5 Current use of HPC in the United Kingdom
The principal use of the data gathered from regulatory monitoring is to monitor
trends or deterioration (in terms of rising counts) in quality, and some suppliers
have targeted trend monitoring with data from service reservoirs. Other uses of
the data are chlorine management, modelling of microbial populations,
                             History and use of HPC                             29

performance assessment of treatment works, assessment for planned
maintenance of infrastructure (e.g., cleaning of service reservoirs) and
secondary indicators of quality following isolation of coliforms or other primary
indicators. Most suppliers have regular review periods, typically monthly, half-
yearly or annually, some undertaking reviews on both a regular basis and by an
unusual result. Most of these reviews are undertaken on an informal basis, but
several have a formal programme, some linked in with their quality assurance
procedures (e.g., ISO 9002 — ISO 1994).
   Undertaking plate counts as part of a suite of analyses when responding to
claims of ill health is the most widespread use, with most suppliers doing counts
at both 37 °C and 22 °C, but a few only at 37 °C. The rationale is that plate
counts may indicate a significant event within the distribution system, not that
HPC bacteria may be related to ill health. Plate counts are also widely used
when investigating complaints of off-tastes or odours, as changes in HPC
populations may indicate proliferation of biofilms, which can be associated with
microbially mediated generation of some organoleptic compounds (Standing
Committee of Analysts 1998). Operational plate counts are also commonly used
as part of acceptance criteria for new mains prior to being put into supply and in
assessing water quality following mains rehabilitation work.
   The use of counts of heterotrophic bacteria has, therefore, a long history in
the United Kingdom. The count at 22 °C has been used as a general indicator of
water quality since 1885. The count at 37 °C was originally introduced with the
belief that it could indicate potential faecal contamination, but this was soon
disregarded, although it is still used for operational management in the United
Kingdom, despite being dropped in the EU Directive.
   Coliform bacteria are also no longer regarded as indicators of faecal
contamination, but are of use as indicators of general microbial quality. This
acknowledges that some coliform bacteria may be part of the natural bacterial
flora in water and proliferate in biofilms. Coliforms are also considered useful
for monitoring treatment processes and assessing the disinfection of new or
repaired mains (Standing Committee of Analysts 2002a).


3.5 THE AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE ON THE PLATE
    COUNT
3.5.1 Early water bacteriology in the USA
It did not take long for these “new methods” to cross the Atlantic, and by 1904,
the first edition of Elements of Bacteriology with Special Reference to Sanitary
Water Analysis (Prescott and Winslow 1904) contained most of what is today
30                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

considered modern bacteriology. The principles of this book, re-edited until
1946 (sixth edition), are still pertinent to the discussions that we have today. A
similar book, written by William G. Savage, entitled The Bacteriological
Examination of Water-Supplies and published in 1906 in London, presents the
British story and the state of knowledge in England at that time.
   In the preface to the first edition of their book, Prescott and Winslow (1904)
summarize the context:

        Bacteriology has long since ceased to be a subject of interest and importance to
     the medical profession merely, but has become intimately connected with the work of
     the chemist, the biologist, and the engineer. To the sanitary engineer and the public
     hygienist a knowledge of bacteriology is indispensable.
        In the swift development of this science during the last ten years perhaps no
     branch of bacteriology has made more notable progress than that which relates to the
     sanitary examination of water. After a brief period of extravagant anticipation, and an
     equally unreasonable era of neglect and suspicion, the methods of the practical water
     bacteriologist have gradually made their way, until it is recognized that, on account of
     their delicacy, their directness, and their certainty, these methods now furnish the
     final criterion of the sanitary condition of a potable water.
        The treatment of the subject in the many treatises on General Bacteriology and
     Medical Bacteriology is neither special enough nor full enough for modern needs.
     The classic work of Grace and Percy Frankland is now ten years old; and even
     Horrocks’ valuable “Bacteriological Examination of Water” requires to be
     supplemented by an account of the developments in quantitative analysis which have
     taken place on this side of the Atlantic.

   The plate count had been applied to a variety of waters, and what were
considered “normal values” were being confirmed. Prescott and Winslow (1904:
pp. 8, 9, 10) wrote:

         With regard to what may be considered normal values for rain we have no very
     satisfactory figures. Those obtained by Miquel (Miquel, 1886) during the period
     1883-1886, showing that rain contains on the average 4.3 bacteria per c.c. in the
     country (Montsouris) and 19 per c.c. in Paris, are probably lower than would be
     yielded by the present methods of examination ... In the larger streams several
     conditions combine to make the bacterial number lower ... A good river-water under
     favorable conditions should thus contain only a few hundred bacteria ... The student
     will find numerous analyses of natural waters in Frankland’s classic work (Frankland,
     1894). He notes, for example, that the Lake of Lucerne contained 8 to 51 bacteria per
     c.c., Loch Katrine 74, and the Loch of Lintralthen an average of 170. The water of
                               History and use of HPC                                   31

   Lake Champlain examined by one of us (S.C.P.) in 1896 contained on an average 82
   bacteria per c.c. at a point more than two miles out from the city of Burlington ...

   Many observers had believed that groundwaters were nearly free from
bacteria, because often no colonies appeared on plates counted after the usual
incubation period of two days. Longer periods of incubation yielded higher
counts, occasionally in very large numbers, and the multiplication of bacteria in
the samples after collection or bottling had been observed. The conclusion was
that all water types contained bacteria and that one needed to find the correct
medium to grow these organisms. However, for the sanitary bacteriologist, the
limits were different (Prescott and Winslow 1904: pp. 19–20):

       That the customary methods for determining the number of bacteria do not reveal
   the total bacterial content, but only a very small fraction of it, becomes apparent
   when we consider the large number of organisms, nitrifying bacteria, cellulose-
   fermenting bacteria, strict anaerobes, etc., which refuse to grow, or grow only very
   slowly in ordinary culture media, and which, therefore, escape our notice.
       ... the numbers obtained by the ordinary procedure were only from 5 to 50 per
   cent of those obtained by the use of Heyden’s Niahrstoff agar. For practical sanitary
   purposes, however, our methods are fairly satisfactory. Within limits, it is of no great
   importance that one method allows the growth of more bacteria than another.
       When we are using the quantitative analysis as a measure of sewage pollution
   only two things are essential. First, media should be of standard composition, so that
   results obtained at different times and by different observers may be comparable ...
   Secondly, it is desirable that the section of the total bacterial flora which we obtain
   should be thoroughly representative of that portion of it in which we are most
   interested — the group of the quickly growing, rich-food-loving sewage forms. In
   this respect our meat gelatin-peptone appears to be unrivalled ... To emphasize this
   difference with constancy is all that we require of a method for practical work.

   The conditions of sample conservation had also been investigated and had
shown that there “is first a slight reduction in the number present, lasting
perhaps for six hours, followed by the great increase noted by earlier observers.
It is probable that there is a constant increase of the typical water bacilli,
overbalanced at first by a reduction in other forms, for which this is an
unsuitable environment.” These results made it obvious that samples must be
examined shortly after collection and that they must be kept cool during their
storage. At this time, the recommendation was that “It is, therefore, necessary to
adhere strictly to the recommendations of the A.P.H.A. Committee that the
interval between sampling and examination should not exceed twelve hours in
32                           HPC and Drinking-water Safety

the case of relatively pure waters, six hours in the case of relatively impure
waters, and one hour in the case of sewage.”
   The incubation period was, as it is still today, the subject of much discussion.
American and German bacteriologists counted the number of colonies after
48 h, while the French were using longer incubation periods and obtaining
higher counts. The Americans considered that the longer incubation period was
in fact obscuring the difference between good and bad waters, because the fast-
growing bacteria were associated with sewage originating from the human
intestine. Whatever the conditions of the test, Prescott and Winslow (1904: p.
35) considered the interpretation of this simple test as a complex process:

         The information furnished by quantitative bacteriology as to the antecedents of a
     water is in the nature of circumstantial evidence and requires judicial interpretation.
     No absolute standards of purity can be established which shall rigidly separate the
     good from the bad. In this respect the terms “test” and “analysis” so universally used
     are in a sense inappropriate. Some scientific problems are so simple that they can be
     definitely settled by a test. The tensile strength of a given steel bar, for example, is a
     property which can be absolutely determined. In sanitary water analysis, however, the
     factors involved are so complex and the evidence necessarily so indirect that the
     process of reasoning much more resembles a doctor’s diagnosis than an engineering
     test.

   On either side of the Atlantic, classes of water were being defined. In France,
as early as 1891, Miquel classified waters as follows: “water with less than 10
bacteria per c.c. was ‘excessively pure,’ with 10 to 100 bacteria, ‘very pure,’
with 100 to 1000 bacteria, ‘pure,’ with 1000 to 10 000 bacteria, ‘mediocre,’ with
10 000 to 100 000 bacteria, ‘impure,’ and with over 100 000 bacteria, ‘very
impure.’” In Germany, water containing fewer than 100 bacteria was
presumably from a deep source and uncontaminated by surface drainage; one
with 500 bacteria was open to suspicion; and one with over 1000 bacteria was
presumably contaminated by sewage or surface drainage (Sternberg 1892).
   By 1904, it was also clear that organisms growing at body temperature and
those fermenting lactose were not numerous in normal waters, with total counts
rarely exceeding 50/ml. However, when polluted waters were examined, counts
of acid producers on “litmus-lactose-agar” plates were likely to run into
hundreds. The method, therefore, was considered “one of the most useful at the
disposal of the bacteriologist. It yields results within twenty-four hours, and the
conclusions to be drawn from it are definite and clear” (Prescott and Winslow
1904).
   The Americans did not consider the plate count as part of their water
regulations until recently.
                            History and use of HPC                             33

3.5.2 Measuring HPC microorganisms in the USA
In the USA, bacteriological methods for the analysis of water were proposed by
the American Public Health Association in collaboration with the American
Water Works Association in the first edition of what was to become known as
“Standard Methods” (APHA 1905). From its first edition in 1905 until its 20th
edition in 1998 (APHA et al. 1998), the methods have been modified on several
occasions. The basic plate count on nutrient gelatin at 20 °C for 48 h was used
for several years and was later modified to include agar as the solidifying agent
and a shorter incubation period of 24 h, which remained the main method until
the 1980s. Because food microbiologists using the plate count had standardized
the method at 35 °C for water, food and dairy products, this became the
recommended temperature of incubation in the 10th edition (APHA et al. 1955).
By 1985, several variations were in use (i.e., pour plate, spread plate and
membrane filtration), and the plate count was referred to as the “heterotrophic
plate count” or HPC.
    By the end of the 1980s, American bacteriologists had developed culture
media that could detect a higher proportion of heterotrophic bacteria (Reasoner
and Geldreich 1985). The media were developed to maximize bacterial
recoveries; they yielded higher counts when incubated for 5–7 days at 20 °C or
28 °C and permitted the examination of larger sample volumes by membrane
filtration methods. Because of the limited inclusion of fewer nutrients at higher
concentration, these media detect higher numbers of fewer different species of
the diverse heterotrophic bacterial population.
    By the mid-1980s, the Americans, who had no standard for the plate count at
the time, had several groups review the “plate count” and its implications. The
bacterial plate count for analysing water had been used in combination with the
coliform test for a number of years and appeared in 1914 as a US drinking-water
standard with a limit of 100 cfu/ml. As experience accumulated with the total
coliform test and plate count test, the fact emerged that the latter provided
unreliable information on the presence of bacterial pathogens in drinking-water.
For this reason, the test was not included in the succeeding US Public Health
Standards of 1925 and thereafter. While there was no requirement for plate
counts as a drinking-water standard even in the 1970s, the US Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) stated its belief that “the standard plate count is a
valid indicator of bacteriological quantity of drinking water, and recommends
that it be used in appropriate cases in conjunction with the coliform tests as an
operational tool” (US EPA 1975). At the same time, the National Academy of
Sciences (1977) stated that “the Standard Plate Count is a valuable procedure for
evaluating the bacterial quality of drinking water.”
34                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   Numerical values were more difficult to define. In 1989, the US EPA
addressed the issue in one of its rules and set the level to 500 cfu/ml at 35 °C, as
a non-health-related secondary standard, mainly for considerations relating to
interference with the coliform test. Both the “Surface Water Treatment Rule”
(US EPA 1989a) and the “Coliform Rule” (US EPA 1989b) contained
requirements for monitoring the HPC, as a high HPC is associated with false-
negative coliform tests when lactose-based media are employed and as HPC is a
surrogate indicator for chlorine residuals in distribution systems. The method
chosen for measuring HPC was left to the water utility, but the numerical
objective was the same.
   According to Reasoner (1990), HPC is a useful tool for 1) monitoring the
efficiency of the water treatment process, including disinfection; 2) obtaining
supplemental information on HPC levels that may interfere with coliform
detection in water samples collected for regulatory compliance monitoring; 3)
assessing changes in finished water quality during distribution and storage and
in distribution system cleanliness; 4) assessing microbial growth on materials
used in the construction of potable water treatment and distribution systems; 5)
measuring bacterial regrowth or aftergrowth potential in treated drinking-water;
and 6) monitoring bacterial population changes following treatment
modifications, such as a change in the type of disinfectant used.

3.5.3 Interference with the total coliform assay
Documents prepared by the US EPA by the mid-1980s show that the Americans
were mainly focusing on the interference of high plate counts with the coliform
assay and the presence of opportunistic pathogens in the bacterial population
defined by the plate count (US EPA 1984).
   Reasoner and Geldreich (1985), who were the developers of the new culture
media for HPC, presented the various uses of the HPC: evaluation of the
treatment process(es), primarily disinfection; evaluation of the levels of HPC
that may interfere with coliform compliance; evaluation of the quality of
finished treated drinking-water and of distribution system cleanliness; and
evaluation of the potential for biofilm formation.
   The Americans relied mainly on total coliform and thermotolerant (faecal)
coliform assays to assess their water quality, and the preferred methodology was
membrane filtration. Setting total coliforms as the key method to all water
analysis, they integrated the HPC, not for its operational value, but mainly to
limit the interference with total coliform enumeration. Investigations had
suggested that high HPC densities (i.e., over 500/ml as enumerated on standard
plate count [SPC] media) could substantially interfere with membrane filtration
tests that were lactose-based, but that this phenomenon may not occur
                             History and use of HPC                              35

consistently. Overcrowding on membrane filter plates appeared to be a major
reason for atypical coliform colonies. In addition to interference with coliform
analysis methodology, large numbers of SPC bacteria were also suggested to
reduce coliform levels during sample transit and storage. Geldreich et al. (1978)
collected 613 samples from flushes of dead-end water mains in Cincinnati,
Ohio. Data analysis demonstrated a correlation between excess SPC densities
and desensitization of the membrane filtration method. They concluded that the
method was less efficient when SPC densities exceed 500–1000 cfu/ml.
    As these studies indicate, American water bacteriologists were essentially
working with data suggesting the presence of interfering factors in some waters;
whether these were intrinsic factors of a physicochemical nature (organic and
inorganic precipitates) or related to a predominance of certain bacteria types has
not been fully explained.
    However, general guidelines were formulated. Values of less than 100 cfu/ml
were considered achievable for all systems. Values from 100 to 500 cfu/ml,
anticipated during seasonal increases or at certain locations in the system (dead
end, low residual), would suggest a need for flushing. Values greater than 500
cfu/ml would suggest poor microbial quality. The last category was not defined
in terms of action to be taken. In other cases, 5- to 10-fold increases over normal
levels were set as a guideline to prompt an investigation (US EPA 1984).


3.6 OPPORTUNISTIC PATHOGENS AND HEALTH
    EFFECTS
On this theme appear the most controversial discussions of the last part of the
20th century. Using various media designed specifically for this task, it is
possible to grow various pathogens, such as Legionella, Mycobacterium,
Escherichia coli, Campylobacter and many other species, from water samples.
While none would dispute the fact that most, if not all, bacterial pathogens are
“heterotrophic bacteria,” many equated the plate count with these pathogens.
The following citation is a typical mixed-message example of what can be found
in texts of the period: “Many members of the SPC population have longer
survival times than fecal contaminants in water, and many (e.g.,
Mycobacterium, Bacillus, and Clostridium) are more resistant to disinfectant
than fecal pathogens.”
   Some bacteria counted in the HPC are certainly more resistant to
disinfection; Bacillus spores have been described as a good indicator of
treatment efficiency. Mycobacteria are very slow growers, are very difficult to
grow and would not be counted on an HPC plate. Clostridia are strict anaerobes
36                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

and therefore would not be found in the population growing on the plate count
media and would not be “members of the SPC.”
   The list of colony-forming bacteria on HPC media and identified in water is
long and illustrates the diversity of the environment: Acinetobacter,
Actinomycetes, Alcaligenes, Arthrobacter, Corynebacterium, Micrococcus,
Moraxella, Pseudomonas, Aeromonas, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Yersinia,
Hafnia, Klebsiella, Serratia, etc. (Payment 1999). The same bacteria are found
often in large numbers in food products.
   While there have been several studies of the bacterial species found in water,
the identification of bacterial isolates from the environment has always been
impaired by a poor database. It is highly probable that many of the isolate
identifications reported in the literature over the years are incorrect.
Comparisons of various available identification systems have shown that the
same isolate will be identified differently according to the database used. In the
1980s, many identifications were made employing clinical systems for which
the database was not appropriate for environmental strains. Molecular methods
have changed our views of the “species,” and we should at least question many
of the bacterial identifications in the literature. Some may be correct to the
genus level and a few to the species level, but none can define the pathogenicity
of these bacteria, as we will see further.
   From the 1980s until now, many researchers in the water industry have
equated the genus or species names of the bacterial isolates found in the plate
count to those of isolates implicated in clinical disease. Few water
bacteriologists were involved in clinical microbiology, and the isolates named
were equated to pathogens and disease. Few pondered the true complexity of
pathogenicity: among the myriad of E. coli strains that can be found in water,
only a few are pathogenic. In a clinical setting, it is only through the
identification process down the serological pattern that clinicians can identify
the true pathogen and the relationship to disease in a particular environment.
Finding E. coli in urine has a different significance than finding it in stools.
Isolating a strain of Campylobacter or Salmonella in stools does not necessarily
mean that it is the cause of disease (de Wit et al. 2000).
   For some true pathogenic strains (i.e., strains that had been isolated from
diseased individuals and shown to cause disease according to Koch’s
principles), oral infective dose data were available. As many of the isolates from
water samples had the same identification (genus, species), most water
microbiologists took the quantum leap: their isolates could also be pathogens,
and even bacteria implicated very rarely in clinical disease became foes.
   An EPA-supported study compared influent and effluent SPC densities for 25
point-of-use devices and generally found about a log or more increase in the
effluent. It was concluded that there was a risk to immunocompromised
                              History and use of HPC                                37

individuals: “Among the opportunistic pathogens which grow on these filters
are Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Flavobacterium species. The proliferation of
these pathogens may pose a health risk to compromised individuals consuming
the effluent water” (Calderon and Mood 1988, 1991).
   Many scientists went further, and statements such as the following were
common: “A positive relationship between SPC densities and waterborne
disease outbreaks has been reported in a few cases, but published data are
sparse” (US EPA 1984: p. 33) or

      There are cases on record where a change in the SPC density has signaled the
   imminence of a waterborne outbreak. In 1926, for example, Hanover, Germany,
   experienced flooding of wells by highly contaminated river water. A substantial
   increase in SPC numbers was not initially accompanied by positive coliform counts.
   Hanover experienced 40,000 cases of gastroenteritis followed by an outbreak of
   typhoid fever (Muller, 1977). Muller (1977) also reported that similar observations
   occurred at Pforzheim in 1919 and at Gelsenkirchen in 1889. [US EPA 1984: pp. 48–
   49]

   Those were sufficient reasons to jump to the conclusion that the correlation
was universal. It failed to acknowledge that HPC numbers were often high in the
absence of any overt disease and that one could not demonstrate a correlation.
The epidemiological value of the anecdotal evidence is poor, but the statement
influenced a large number of water specialists. In fact, it fell in the same
category as coliforms and E. coli: both are used as indicators of treatment of
faecal contamination, but, to many plant operators, they are disease-causing
organisms.
   The conclusion to most of the debates and of committees formed to study the
risk is summarized by this statement: “While there is no conclusive evidence to
date that opportunistic pathogens have caused disease via the waterborne route,
there is strong supportive evidence this is true. Since virtually everyone in the
U.S. is exposed to SPC bacteria whenever they consume or otherwise use
potable water, including the compromised population, this is an area of concern”
(US EPA 1984: pp. 59–60).
   This statement, in its simplicity, fails to acknowledge the major source of
exposure to HPC bacteria: food. As is shown in section 3.8 below, the HPC
rapidly found its way in the food industry, where it has become a tool to study
food degradation. The food industry faced the same problem and came up with a
very different solution. Many food products could contain more than 1 000 000
cfu/ml before they began to deteriorate to a point where they were spoiled. This
38                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

was defined by the food industry not in terms of public health but in terms of
food quality.
   Several studies were also concerned with the presence of virulence factors in
HPC bacteria (Lye and Dufour 1991; Payment et al. 1994; Edberg et al. 1997;
Drinking Water Inspectorate 1998). They recognized that there were bacteria in
drinking-water that contained recognized virulence factors, but that they were in
small numbers and that only animal studies or epidemiological evidence could
demonstrate the significance of these bacterial strains. Recent studies in
immunocompromised animal models determined the true meaning of these
virulence factors detected in vitro, and these studies have shown that none of the
HPC bacteria isolated from drinking-water and expressing various virulence
factors were pathogenic for immunocompromised mice (Stelma et al. 2002).


3.7 HEALTH EFFECTS: EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDY
Epidemiology again became a tool to answer the questions raised and the
potential risks. The immunocompromised population had been growing rapidly
with the spread of HIV/AIDS, and, with the advances in medicine, there was
now an increasing number of transplant patients artificially immunosuppressed
by drugs.
   Because of lack of faith in tap water quality, a large number of households
were using various point-of-use devices based on activated charcoal to remove
chemical contaminants from water. It did not take long to show that these filters
supported bacterial growth and that the effluent often contained more bacteria
than the incoming water (Geldreich et al. 1985). Heterotrophic bacteria were
using the accumulated organics in the activated charcoal filter matrix to
proliferate. These could be the source of opportunistic pathogens, or the filters
themselves might support the growth of incoming bacterial pathogens.
   The first epidemiological studies on possible health effects were conducted in
the USA by Calderon and Mood (1988, 1991) on a large number of households
using various point-of-use or point-of-entry devices based on granular activated
charcoal. High HPC levels were observed, but there were no apparent health
effects demonstrated.
   A prospective epidemiological study on the health effects of tap water was
conducted in Canada. It included 600 families, 300 of which had been provided
with reverse osmosis units to remove contaminants from their tap water
(Payment et al. 1991a). The installation of the device had a protective effect for
gastrointestinal disease transmitted by tap water: the individuals in the filter
group experienced 35% fewer gastrointestinal episodes that those in the
unprotected group. HPC counts at 20 °C and 35 °C had been obtained from the
reverse osmosis units on several occasions, and it was thus possible to correlate
                             History and use of HPC                              39

the level of disease in the family with the HPC counts at 37 °C (Payment et al.
1991b). The apparent association was driven by a few outliers in the data set and
probably gave this result apparent, but unlikely, statistical significance.
   In a second study, the same group (Payment et al. 1997) used bottled water
as a means of testing the health effects of drinking-water. Highly purified
bottled water and tap water (from a water filtration plant) were given to two
groups of families; a third group consumed tap water, and a fourth group
consumed water from a tap equipped with a bleeder valve that continuously
purged the system, thereby preventing stagnation and regrowth of heterotrophic
organisms. The results confirmed that tap water was a significant source of
gastrointestinal disease in the population (17–40%). While the bottled purified
(reverse osmosis filtered and ozonated) water remained relatively free of
bacteria, the water collected at the water treatment plant supported an active
HPC growth within a few days, as would be observed in the distribution system
upon stagnation. The HPC population grew from 2 to 30 000 cfu/ml (25 °C) and
from 0 to 985 cfu/ml (37 °C) in a week, with extremes at 1 400 000 cfu/ml
(25 °C) and 895 000 cfu/ml (37 °C). The individuals who had consumed water
with high bacterial counts had reported less illnesses than those consuming tap
water. They had the same level of illness as those consuming pure bottled water
with very few bacteria. The group of families consuming water from a tap
equipped with bleeder valves had a level of gastrointestinal illnesses slightly
higher than those in the tap water group. This indicated that regrowth of bacteria
in drinking-water was not the source of the observed illnesses.
   These studies all suggested that high bacterial counts from bacteria
developing in tap water or bottled water were not contributing to an increase of
gastrointestinal illnesses in a normal population (i.e., a population composed of
individuals of all ages and normally healthy).


3.8 HPC BACTERIA IN FOOD
Historically, the bacterial plate count occupies a strong position as an analytical
tool for determining the microbial quality of a variety of raw and processed food
products, such as meats, dairy products and canned foods. It was among the first
of the definitive scientific methods employed for quality control in such
products, and its use continues today as the major tool for their bacteriological
examination.
   The European Economic Community (EEC) directives for various food
products would appear totally unacceptable to most water bacteriologists;
however, this is what we eat everyday. A few examples from various EEC
directives or the United Kingdom guidelines (PHLS Advisory Committee for
40                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Food and Dairy Products 2000) are presented in Table 3.1 and illustrate the
order-of-magnitude difference between the two worlds.
Table 3.1. EEC directives and United Kingdom guidelines for the microbial quality of
food products
 Product                           Microorganisms                Maximum value
 1) EEC directives
 Egg products                      Aerobic mesophilic bacteria   100 000 cfu/g or ml
 (Directive 89/437/EEC)            Enterobacteriaceae            100 cfu/g or ml
 Pasteurized drinking milk         Plate count at 21 °C          50 000 cfu/g
 (Directive 92/46/EEC)
 Minced meat                       Aerobic mesophilic bacteria   5 000 000 cfu/g
 (Directive 94/65/EEC)             E. coli (non-pathogenic)      500 cfu/g
 Frozen milk-based products        Coliforms                     100 cfu/g
 (Directive 92/46/EEC)             Plate count                   50 000 cfu/g
 2) United Kingdom guidelines
 Pork pies, sausage roll, raw      Aerobic colony count          <10 000 cfu/g
 pickled fish, mousse              30 °C, 48 h
 Ice cream, pizza, cakes and       Aerobic colony count          <100 000 cfu/g
 pastries (without dairy cream),   30 °C, 48 h
 mayonnaise, cooked vegetables
 Sliced beef and poultry,          Aerobic colony count          <1 000 000 cfu/g
 seafood meals, cakes and          30 °C, 48 h
 pastries (with dairy cream),
 dried fruit, coleslaw
 Sliced ham, smoked fish,          Aerobic colony count          <10 000 000 cfu/g
 prepared mixed salads,            30 °C, 48 h
 sandwiches and filled rolls

   A survey conducted in 1999 in Australia provides an interesting perspective
on self-serve salad bars (West Australia State Health Laboratory Service 1999):

         The median SPC value was 185,000 cfu/g. Forty-six (63.9%) samples had an SPC
     less than 1,000,000 cfu/g, nineteen (26.4%) had an SPC between 1,000,000 and
     10,000,000 cfu/g, seven samples had an SPC greater than 10,000,000 cfu/g. There
     were no samples with an SPC greater than 100,000,000 cfu/g.

   The same is true in the USA, as the following citation from a Massachusetts
requirement for frozen desserts illustrates (Massachusetts Department of Public
Health 1999):
                               History and use of HPC                                 41

       The bacteriological limits for frozen desserts set forth in 105 CMR 561.009 are 10
   coliform colonies per gram and 50,000 standard plate count (SPC) per gram. It is the
   responsibility of local boards of health to enforce monthly testing and reporting
   requirements for frozen dessert establishments, as well as to take appropriate actions
   when bacteriological violations have been found ...
       Q. Does a standard plate count (SPC) slightly above the standard of 50,000
   colonies per gram present a public health concern?
       A. The limit of 50,000 SPC is intended as a guideline. Usually the SPC represents
   harmless organisms, especially if there are no coliforms associated with the sample.
   Spoilage organisms usually begin to affect the frozen dessert product in numbers
   much greater than 50,000. It usually takes counts of 1,000,000 or greater to create
   spoilage. According to 105 CMR 561.009, exceeding 50,000 once is not considered a
   violation. When a SPC is only slightly high, i.e., 150,000, consider the company’s
   track record.


3.9 MANDATORY OR GUIDELINE HPC VALUES IN THE
    1970S AND 1980S
After the initial impetus, bacteriological tests became a simple routine measure-
ment for the control of water treatment; in many countries, the plate count was
not defined by mandatory values. Most regulatory texts simply stated that the
absence of pathogens was expected and that control was to be achieved using
coliform bacteria.
   Apart from semantics and terminology, what was meant by the “total count
of bacteria” in water did not change much, the basic definition being “the
number of bacterial colonies produced on an agar plate under defined medium
and incubation conditions.” Heterotrophic bacteria include all those bacteria that
can use organic nutrients for growth. The aquatic environment contains an
extremely diverse flora of these organisms. All known primary and secondary
bacterial pathogens, whether transient or indigenous, that are spread by the
water route are heterotrophic. No single analytical tool can satisfactorily detect
and enumerate all heterotrophic bacteria or measure their full range of metabolic
activities.
   In addition to the term “standard plate count,” many designations have been
used: “heterotrophic plate count,” “total viable count,” “total count,” “plate
count,” “total bacterial count,” “bacterial count,” “water plate count” and
“colony count,” as well as “aerobic, mesophilic viable bacteria.” Some are used
in the water industry, some in the food industry, others in biology. The
“standard plate count” term was used in the USA until the 15th edition of
42                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Standard Methods (APHA et al. 1980) and was changed in the 16th edition
(APHA et al. 1985). The nomenclature currently refers to the “heterotrophic
plate count” as defined in the 20th edition of Standard Methods (APHA et al.
1998).
   Several countries adopted mandatory values for the colony counts of water
(Table 3.2). They are still used in most of these countries (see chapter 12), and
they are very similar to the values suggested by Koch at the end of the 19th
century. The European Union (1980) did recommend guideline values for total
bacterial counts in drinking-water of 10 cfu/ml at 37 °C and 100 cfu/ml at
22 °C. Even if this appears convenient in its simplicity, there are differences in
the defined conditions of medium and incubation, as well as other analytical
parameters, from one country to another, as illustrated in Table 3.3. These
guideline values, however, were dropped in the 1998 directive (European Union
1998).
   Even if setting guideline values appears convenient, the impact of these
differences on results is not really known. When setting an international level
for any type of water (especially in point-of-use devices or bottled waters), these
differences could significantly affect any decision made on the basis of the
numerical results obtained. Furthermore, the rationale for using a particular
value is rarely apparent in the texts supporting the regulations. WHO Guidelines
for Drinking-water Quality still provide such information (WHO 1996).


3.10 STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES IN THE 1990S
The current standards or guidelines for HPC bacteria in tap water vary slightly
between different nations. In general, HPC monitoring is used as a tool to gain
information on the water treatment process and the general bacteriological
quality of the water leaving the water treatment plant and within the distribution
system. Examples of specific guidelines for drinking-water (tap or bottled) from
several countries and agencies have been reviewed in chapter 12.


3.11 CONCLUSIONS
The HPC was the basic test that led public health officials and water treatment
engineers to improve the quality of drinking-water. The plate count was rapidly
replaced in most regulations by coliform testing, which provided a better
indication of the sanitary quality of the water. In the early 1900s, the HPC was
being used only as a secondary test to further assess treatment efficiency. While
several technological developments led to media capable of detecting higher
numbers of bacteria, very little was done to assess the variations in the bacterial
subpopulations isolated on these different media at different temperatures.
                              History and use of HPC                                43

Table 3.2. Some mandatory colony count values in Europe in 1977 (adapted from Muller
1977)
                                                 Mandatory value      Temperature
                    Application                   (counts/ml)            (°C)
 Poland             Public supply                     100                 20
                                                       25                 37
                    Well water                        100                 37
                                                      500                 20
 Yugoslavia         Treated water                      10                 37
                    Underground (raw)                 100                 37
                    Surface (raw)                     300                 37
 Romania            Public water supply                20                 ??
                    (>70 000 consumers)
                    Other water supplies             100–300              ??
 Switzerland        Raw water                          100                ??
                    Raw water (distributed)            300                ??
                    Immediately after                  20                 ??
                    treatment
                    Distribution system               300                 ??
 Netherlands        Tap water                         100                 20
 Sweden             Tap water                         100                 20
 Germany (GDR)      Tap water                         100                 20
 Spain              Good quality water               50–65                37
                    Tolerable water                   100                 37
 France                                             No guide
 United Kingdom                                     No guide
 USA                                                No guide

   The guideline values proposed by Koch at the end of the 19th century are
very similar to those set by today’s regulations in many countries. Various
rationales have been proposed to justify the choice of specific guideline values:
a few considered possible health effects, some considered attainable values,
others found that HPC interfered with other tests, some found it useful for
various tasks, many simply followed suggested guidelines.
   The concerns relating to the presence of opportunistic pathogens within the
bacterial population detected in the plate count have essentially been put to rest
by several studies. Recent literature suggests that direct health effects are
improbable, especially when compared with the extremely high plate counts that
have been considered acceptable in food products. The historical background in
the food industry provides ample evidence that these bacteria are mostly
Table 3.3. Example of the diversity of methods for the determination of plate count in drinking-water as set by water regulations in various
countries during the 1980s (modified from NATO 1984)
                             Canada          Netherlands     Norway         FRG              Sweden         France            UK
 Procedure                   Pour plate      Pour plate      Pour plate     Pour plate       Pour plate     Pour plate        Pour plate
 Samples      ml/plate       As required     1               1              1                1              1                 1
              Replicate      2               2               2              2                2              2/dilution        1–2/dilution
              Dilution       As required     As required     As required    As required      As required    As required       As required
              Diluent        Phosphate-      0.1%            0.9% NaCl      Sterile tap      Phosphate-     Distilled water   Ringer’s
                             buffered        peptone                        water            buffered       or Ringer’s       solution ¼×
                             distilled       water                                           distilled      solution ¼×
                             water                                                           water
 Media        Medium         Tryptone        Tryptone        Tryptone       Meat extract     Meat           Yeast extract     Yeast extract
                             glucose         glucose         glucose        peptone agar     extract        agar              agar
                             yeast extract   yeast extract   yeast                           peptone
                             agar            agar            extract agar                    agar
              Sterilize      15 min,         15 min,         15 min,        20 min,          20 min,        20 min,           20 min,
                             121 °C          121 °C          121 °C         120 °C           120 °C         118 °C            115 °C
              Incubation     48 h            48 h, 37 °C     72 h, 20 °C    44 h, 20 °C      48 h, 22 °C    24 h, 37 °C       24 h, 37 °C
                             35°C            72 h, 22 °C                                                    72 h, 20–         72 h, 20–
                                                                                                            22 °C             22 °C
 Counting     Aids used      Quebec          Automatic       Hand lens      Hand lens        Hand lens      Hand lens         Hand lens
                             colony          colony                         (8×)
                             History and use of HPC                               45

harmless, non-pathogenic organisms. That they can cause disease in extreme
conditions remains possible (e.g., cuts, surgery, immunosuppression, etc.): many
microorganisms given an opportunity to enter the human body can cause great
harm. This is not the case when they are ingested.
   In 2002, after more than 125 years, the case for setting HPC levels in
drinking-water still remains an open question in the minds of many. This brief
review of the HPC in history suggests that the main cause for concern has been
the focus of water bacteriologists on the sanitary consequences of the HPC.
Early bacteriologists had rapidly determined that in the absence of faecal
contamination, the role of the HPC was not as an indicator of public health risk.
Food bacteriologists, faced with the same problem, also accepted that HPC
bacteria were mainly nuisance organisms, and they set guidelines that are orders
of magnitude higher than those for drinking-water. Therefore, the future use of
HPC in water testing appears to be mainly as a validation and verification test,
with no direct relationship to public health.


3.12 REFERENCES
Anonymous (1934) The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 1st edn. Reports
    on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1939) The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 2nd edn.
    Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1956) The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 3rd edn. Reports
    on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1969) The Bacteriological Examination of Water Supplies, 4th edn. Reports
    on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1982) The Bacteriological Examination of Drinking Water Supplies 1982.
    Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, Methods for the
    Examination of Waters and Associated Materials, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1989a) The Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989. Statutory
    Instrument 1989 No. 1147, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (1989b) Guidance on Safeguarding the Quality of Public Water Supplies.
    Department of the Environment and the Welsh Office, HMSO, London.
Anonymous (2000) The Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 2000. Statutory
    Instrument No. 3184, Stationery Office Ltd., London.
Anonymous (2001) Staatsblad van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden. Jaargang
    (www.vrom.nl/docs/milieu/waterleidingbesluit.pdf).
APHA (1905) Standard Methods of Water Analysis, 1st edn. American Public Health
    Association, Lancaster Press, Lancaster, PA.
APHA-AWWA-FSIWA (1955) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water,
    Sewage, and Industrial Wastes. American Public Health Association, American
    Water Works Association and Federation of Sewage and Industrial Waste
    Associations, New York, NY.
46                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

APHA-AWWA-WPCF (1980) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
    Wastewater, 15th edn. American Public Health Association, American Water Works
    Association and Water Pollution Control Federation, Washington, DC.
APHA-AWWA-WPCF (1985) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
    Wastewater, 16th edn. American Public Health Association, American Water Works
    Association and Water Pollution Control Federation, Washington, DC.
APHA-AWWA-WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
    Wastewater, 20th edn. American Public Health Association, American Water Works
    Association and Water Environment Federation, New York, NY.
Beck, R.W. (2000) A Chronology of Microbiology in Historical Context. ASM Press,
    Washington, DC.
Calderon, R.L. and Mood, E.W. (1988) Bacterial Colonizing Point-of-Use, Granular
    Activated Carbon Filters and Their Relationship to Human Health. CR-811904-01-
    0, US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Calderon, R.L. and Mood, E.W. (1991) Bacterial Colonizing Point-of-Entry, Granular
    Activated Carbon Filters and Their Relationship to Human Health. CR-813978-01-
    0, US Environmental Protection Agency.
de Wit, M.A., Hoogenboom-Verdegaal, A.M., Goosen, E.S., Sprenger, M.J. and
    Borgdorff, M.W. (2000) A population-based longitudinal study on the incidence and
    disease burden of gastroenteritis and Campylobacter and Salmonella infection in
    four regions of the Netherlands. Eur. J. Epidemiol. 16, 713–718.
Drinking Water Inspectorate (1998) Health Significance of Heterotrophic Bacteria in
    Drinking Water. Report FR/DW 0003, Foundation for Water Research, Marlow.
Edberg, S.C., Kops, S., Kontnick, C. and Escarzaga, M. (1997) Analysis of cytotoxicity
    and invasiveness of heterotrophic plate count bacteria (HPC) isolated from drinking
    water on blood media. J. Appl. Microbiol. 82, 455–461.
European Union (1980) Council Directive 80/778/EEC of 15 July 1980 relating to the
    quality of water intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L229, 11–
    19.
European Union (1998) Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality
    of water intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L330, 32–53.
Geldreich, E.E., Allen, M.J. and Taylor, R.H. (1978) Interferences to Coliform Detection
    in Potable Water Supplies. EPA570/9-78-00C, US Environmental Protection
    Agency, Washington, DC.
Geldreich, E.E., Taylor, R.H., Blannon, J.C. and Reasoner, D.J. (1985) Bacterial
    colonization of point-of-use water treatment devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 77,
    72–80.
Hamlyn, C. (1990) A Science of Impurity. Water Analysis in Nineteenth Century Britain.
    University of California Press, Berkeley, CA.
Horrocks, W.H. (1901) An Introduction to the Bacteriological Examination of Water. J &
    A Churchill, London.
ISO (1994) Quality Systems — Model for Quality Assurance in Production, Installation
    and Servicing. International Standard ISO 9002: 1994, International Organization
    for Standardization, Geneva.
ISO (1999) Water Quality — Enumeration of Culturable Micro-organisms — Colony
    Count by Inoculation in a Nutrient Agar Culture Medium. International Standard
    ISO 6222:1999, International Organization for Standardization, Geneva.
                                History and use of HPC                                  47

Lye, D.J. and Dufour, A.P. (1991) A membrane filter procedure for assaying cytotoxic
     activity in heterotrophic bacteria isolated from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol.
     70, 89–94.
Massachusetts Department of Public Health (1999) Issue: Licensing and Testing
     Requirements for Frozen Desserts No: DU-01. Division of Food and Drugs, Jamaica
     Plain, MA.
Miquel, P. (1891) Manuel de pratique d’analyse bactériologique des eaux. Paris [cited in
     Prescott and Winslow 1904].
Muller, G. (1977) Bacterial indicators and standards for water quality in the Federal
     Republic of Germany. In Bacterial Indicators/Health Hazards Associated with
     Water (ed. A.W. Hoadley and B.J. Dutka), ASTM STP 635, pp. 159–167, American
     Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA.
National Academy of Sciences (1977) Drinking Water and Health. Washington, DC.
National Institute of Health Sciences (2002) Waterworks Law (21 December 1992).
     Water Quality Standard of Drinking Water (www.nihs.go.jp/law/suido/esuido.html).
NATO (1984) Drinking Water Microbiology. North Atlantic Treaty Organization
     Committee on Challenges of Modern Society. EPA/570/9-84-006, US
     Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Payment, P. (1999) Heterotrophic bacteria. In AWWA Manual of Water Practices, AWWA
     M48, Waterborne Pathogens, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Payment, P., Coffin, E. and Paquette, G. (1994) Blood agar to detect virulence factors in
     tap water heterotrophic bacteria. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60, 1179–1183.
Payment, P., Richardson, L., Siemiatycki, J., Dewar, R., Edwardes, M. and Franco, E.
     (1991a) A randomized trial to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal disease due to the
     consumption of drinking water meeting currently accepted microbiological
     standards. Am. J. Public Health 81, 703–708.
Payment, P., Franco, E., Richardson, L. and Siemiatycki, J. (1991b) Gastrointestinal
     health effects associated with the consumption of drinking water produced by point-
     of-use domestic reverse-osmosis filtration units. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57, 945–
     948.
Payment, P., Siemiatycki, J., Richardson, L., Renaud, G., Franco, E. and Prévost, M.
     (1997) A prospective epidemiological study of gastrointestinal health effects due to
     the consumption of drinking water. Int. J. Environ. Health Res. 7, 5–31.
PHLS Advisory Committee for Food and Dairy Products (2000) Guidelines for the
     microbiological quality of some ready-to-eat foods sampled at the point of sale.
     Commun. Dis. Public Health 3, 163–167.
Prescott, S.C. and Winslow, C.-E.A. (1904) Elements of Bacteriology with Special
     Reference to Sanitary Water Analysis, 1st edn. John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY,
     and Chapman & Hall, London.
Reasoner, D.J. (1990) Monitoring heterotrophic bacteria in potable water. In Drinking
     Water Microbiology — Progress and Recent Developments (ed. G.A. McFeters), pp.
     452–477, Springer-Verlag, New York, NY.
Reasoner, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1985) A new medium for the enumeration and
     subculture of bacteria from potable water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49, 1–7.
Royal Institute of Public Health (1904) Report of the Committee Appointed to Consider
     the Standardization of Methods for the Bacterioscopic Examination of Water. J.
     State Med. 12, 471–476.
48                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Savage, W.G. (1906) The Bacteriological Examination of Water-Supplies. H.K. Lewis,
     London.
Society for Water Treatment and Examination (1956) The bacteriological examination of
     water supplies — A discussion on the third edition of Report No. 71. Proc. Soc.
     Water Treat. Exam. 5, 186–208.
Standing Committee of Analysts (1994) The Microbiology of Water 1994 — Part 1 —
     Drinking Water. Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, Methods
     for the Examination of Waters and Associated Materials, Environment Agency,
     London.
Standing Committee of Analysts (1998) The Assessment of Taste, Odour and Related
     Aesthetic Problems in Drinking Waters 1998. Methods for the Examination of
     Waters and Associated Materials, Environment Agency, London.
Standing Committee of Analysts (2002a) The Microbiology of Drinking Water 2002 —
     Part 1 — Water Quality and Public Health. Methods for the Examination of Waters
     and Associated Materials, Environment Agency, London.
Standing Committee of Analysts (2002b) The Microbiology of Drinking Water 2002 —
     Part 7 — The Enumeration of Heterotrophic Bacteria by Pour and Spread Plate
     Techniques. Methods for the Examination of Waters and Associated Materials,
     Environment Agency, London.
Stelma, G., Lye, D., Payment, P., Smith, B. and Messer, J. (2002) Rare occurrence of
     heterotrophic bacteria with pathogenic potential in drinking water. In Proceedings of
     the NSF International/WHO Symposium on HPC Bacteria in Drinking Water —
     Public Health Implications?, 22–24 April 2002, pp. 247–256, Geneva.
Sternberg, G.M. (1892) Manual of Bacteriology. New York, NY [cited in Prescott and
     Winslow 1904].
US EPA (1975) Safe Drinking Water Act. US Environmental Protection Agency. Fed.
     Regist. 40, 59567.
US EPA (1984) Drinking Water Criteria Document on Heterotrophic Bacteria.
     Unpublished draft document, 25 May 1984, US Environmental Protection Agency,
     Washington, DC.
US EPA (1989a) 40 CFR Parts 141 and 142 Drinking Water; National Primary Drinking
     Water Rules and Regulations; filtration, disinfection; turbidity, Giardia lamblia,
     viruses, Legionella, and heterotrophic bacteria; final rule. US Environmental
     Protection Agency. Fed. Regist. 54(124), 27486–27541.
US EPA (1989b) National Primary Drinking Water Rules and Regulations, total
     coliforms (including fecal coliforms and E. coli), final rule. US Environmental
     Protection Agency. Fed. Regist. 54, 27544–27568.
West Australia State Health Laboratory Service (1999) Microbiological Quality of Ready
     to Eat Foods. April 1999.
WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn., vol. 2, Health Criteria
     and Other Supporting Information. World Health Organization, Geneva.
4
The presence of bacteria in water
after regrowth
C.R. Fricker




4.1 INTRODUCTION
The processes used for producing potable water are not intended to produce
bacteria-free water; rather, they are concerned with removing microorganisms
that are a potential health threat and making water aesthetically pleasing. The
types of processes used to treat water appear to have relatively little effect on the
types of bacteria that can pass through the treatment process, although
disinfection with oxidizing disinfectants will tend to remove vegetative bacteria,
whereas bacterial spores may well be unaffected. It is well understood that there
are many factors that affect an organism’s susceptibility to chlorine disinfection,
and one of the major factors appears to be the degree of metabolic activity.
Organisms that have grown in low-nutrient systems or have been “starved” tend
to be considerably more resistant to disinfection than those grown under
laboratory conditions in nutrient-rich media. Thus, caution must be applied in

 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
50                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

interpreting studies of the growth and survival of bacteria in drinking-water,
particularly where disinfection has been employed.


4.2 DETECTION OF BACTERIA IN WATER
Natural waters contain a myriad of different bacterial species, many of which
have not been cultured, much less identified. The number of organisms present
varies considerably between different water types, and it is generally accepted
that sewage-polluted surface waters contain greater numbers of bacteria than do
unpolluted waters. However, this may not in fact be the case. The methods used
widely in water microbiology tend to favour the detection of mesophilic bacteria
that are able to grow on nutrient-rich media. This severely limits the number and
range of bacteria detected. Thus, sewage-polluted water contains large numbers
of Enterobacteriaceae, which are readily cultured using the techniques normally
used in water microbiology laboratories. However, other waters may contain
bacteria that do not grow readily on nutrient-rich media and thus may not be
detected. The introduction of a new medium (R2A) by Reasoner and Geldreich
(1985) that had a lower nutrient content than most media employed in water
microbiology demonstrated that many new bacteria could be detected in some
water types, especially when the incubation period was extended. Furthermore,
using a fluorescein diacetate as a marker of bacterial viability, Reynolds and
Fricker (1999) demonstrated that in some water samples, only a tiny proportion
of bacteria were detected using culture techniques that included the use of yeast
extract agar and R2A medium. While in some samples only 1% of bacteria were
detected by culture, in other samples in excess of 50% of bacteria were detected.
Thus, it is extremely difficult to predict the true microbiological load of any
water sample using culture alone.
    Many other viability markers have also been used to demonstrate the
presence of bacteria in water, with varying degrees of success. Different groups
of these markers work on different principles, including the presence of certain
enzymes, an intact respiratory chain or membrane permeability. While there
have been a small number of studies comparing the performance of these
different markers, they have been extremely difficult to interpret. The reason is
that there is currently no “gold standard” to determine whether a cell is viable,
other than demonstrating cell division. Other studies have used molecular
techniques to detect bacteria in water. Studies initially used nucleic acid probes
to the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) present in bacterial cells. Such probes can be
designed to be extremely specific for a given bacterial species (Prescott and
Fricker 1999) or much broader groups of bacteria. Probes can even be
constructed to detect all prokaryotic organisms (Amann and Ludwig 2000).
However, while the number of rRNA molecules decreases after cell death, use
                  Presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                   51

of 16S rRNA probes may still detect cells that are no longer capable of
reproduction. An alternative approach has been to utilize nucleic acid probes to
messenger RNA (mRNA) (Fricker 2000) for detection of “viable” organisms,
utilizing the premise that mRNA has an extremely short half-life and will
disappear to non-detectable levels shortly after cell death. However, studies with
Escherichia coli demonstrated that E. coli-specific mRNA could be detected 20
days after cells had been “killed” by chlorine disinfection. Thus, the
determination of the number of viable cells present within a particular sample is
dependent on the definition of “viability” that is used. Again, there are many
definitions of “viability,” but, with the exception of demonstrable cell division,
none is universally accepted. Because of the extreme variation in the numbers of
bacteria present in any given water sample, depending on the test procedure
used, it is difficult and often impossible to compare findings from different
studies. In general, most workers use some culture procedure to describe the
numbers of bacteria present, but with the caveat that any culture procedure will
detect only a (small) fraction of the total bacteria present.


4.3 THE “VIABLE BUT NON-CULTURABLE” STATE
There has been much discussion about the existence of the viable but non-
culturable (VBNC) state in bacteria, but it is generally accepted that some
bacteria may respond to adverse conditions by entering a phase whereby they
are able to metabolize and survive but are unable to produce colonies on
artificial media on which they would normally grow. While starvation or low-
nutrient conditions may trigger this response, other factors, such as pH, salinity
and other unknown conditions, may also be involved. The existence of VBNC
cells has been described for a wide variety of organisms, including vibrios,
campylobacters,     aeromonads,      legionellas    and    members      of     the
Enterobacteriaceae. In some experiments, it has been demonstrated that these
VBNC cells are able to infect suitable animals when introduced experimentally.
However, at present, without resorting to in vivo experiments, it is impossible to
determine if cells that are present in a sample but unable to grow on culture
media are able to reproduce and thus be of concern to human health.


4.4 MICROBIOLOGICAL REGROWTH
The growth of bacteria in water distribution systems and water treatment
devices has been recognized for many years. Such growth is affected by many
different factors, including the types of bacteria present in water released from a
water treatment plant, the temperature, disinfectant concentration, the presence
52                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

of sediment in the pipe work, the types and amount of nutrients present and the
rate of flow of the water. Many of these factors cannot be controlled, and thus
microbial regrowth will continue to be investigated. The organisms involved in
microbial regrowth are those that have been released from the water treatment
plant or that have been introduced into the distribution system at some point
downstream of the water treatment plant. If it is assumed that the water
treatment plant is performing adequately, then the numbers of bacterial
pathogens released into the water distribution system will be low, and those that
are present are likely to be killed during transport in systems where residual
disinfectant is present. However, a break in the integrity of the distribution
system (e.g., burst water main) can lead to the ingress of contaminated water.
Such water may contain organisms that are potentially pathogenic for humans.
   Many bacteria that enter the water distribution system are unable to survive
or indeed colonize the distribution system (Reasoner et al. 1989), but many
bacteria, including indicator bacteria such as Enterobacter, Citrobacter and
Klebsiella, as well as potentially opportunistic pathogens such as Aeromonas,
Pseudomonas, Flavobacterium and Acinetobacter, are often found in colonized
water distribution systems.


4.5 MICROBIAL PATHOGENS IN WATER
As our knowledge of clinical microbiology increases and epidemiological
surveillance improves, the range of microorganisms that have been shown to
cause waterborne outbreaks of disease has grown. No longer are the classical
waterborne pathogens Vibrio cholerae and Salmonella typhi the most frequently
detected cause of waterborne outbreaks of disease (although they still account
for substantial illness in many developing countries). Newly described
infections, such as those caused by Cryptosporidium, now account for many of
the disease outbreaks linked to water. However, the number of “sporadic”
infections attributable to water is unknown. Many of the pathogens associated
with water are also transmitted by food, and thus it is difficult to determine the
source of most sporadic infections. The number of different types of bacteria
that have the potential to cause disease in human beings and have been isolated
from water is large, and yet the incidence of infection in human beings is often
extremely low, even in areas where the water distribution system is continually
colonized.
   Unless there has been a breakdown in the water treatment process (usually a
failure of disinfection) or a large ingress of contaminated water, then the
occurrence of “traditional” bacterial enteric pathogens, such as Salmonella,
Shigella, Vibrio and Campylobacter, is rarely, if ever, seen. However, a wide
variety of “opportunistic pathogens,” such as Aeromonas, Pseudomonas and
                   Presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                  53

some species of Mycobacterium, are commonly found. The significance of their
presence in water supplies in the etiology of human disease, however, is not well
defined.

4.5.1 Aeromonas spp.
The significance of these environmentally ubiquitous organisms in the etiology
of human gastrointestinal disease remains unclear, despite intensive
investigation (WHO 2002). While certain species, mainly A. caviae, A.
hydrophila and A. veronii subspecies sobria, have been isolated from patients
(particularly infants) with diarrhoea (Sow et al. 1977; Chatterjee et al. 1989;
Krovacek et al. 1989; Ashiru et al. 1993), these organisms are also found
frequently in the faeces of subjects who are asymptomatic (C.R. Fricker and
R.W.A. Park, unpublished observations).
    There is no doubt that Aeromonas can frequently be detected in a variety of
waters, and several investigators have described its detection in potable water
(LeChevallier et al. 1980, 1982; Clark et al. 1982; Millership and
Chattopadhyay 1985; Havelaar et al. 1990) at levels of up to 1900 cfu/ml.
However, even with modern tools for discrimination between bacterial isolates,
it is difficult to determine if the types of organisms present in drinking-water are
the same as those found in patients with diarrhoea. Havelaar and colleagues
(Havelaar et al. 1992) used serotyping and cell wall fatty acid analysis to
attempt to correlate the presence of Aeromonas in drinking-water and in patients
with diarrhoea. The differences they encountered between the strains from the
two sources led them to conclude that the strains isolated from water were
essentially different from those isolated from human faeces. Similar studies
(Moyer et al. 1992; Hanninen 1994; Kirov et al. 1994) also failed to confirm a
link between the strains found in drinking-water and those isolated from human
faeces.
    Aeromonas is also frequently found in foods, and many studies have been
carried out to determine its incidence. In all published studies, Aeromonas was
found in a variety of foodstuffs with isolation rates of up to 84% and
concentrations of up to 105/g, with ready-to-eat foods being frequently
contaminated (Fricker and Tompsett 1989; Palumbo et al. 1989; Knochel and
Jeppesen 1990; Hanninen 1993). In human volunteer experiments, doses of 1010
failed to produce diarrhoea, and many subjects did not excrete the organism.
However, the pathogenic traits of the inoculum were not clearly defined. The
frequent occurrence of these organisms in both food and water, together with the
apparent high infectious dose and the lack of any clearly identified foodborne or
waterborne outbreaks, suggests that the role of Aeromonas in diarrhoeal disease
is minimal.
54                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

4.5.2 Pseudomonas
There have been no reported studies demonstrating a link between consumption
of potable water and enteric disease. P. aeruginosa is frequently found in
drinking-water, where it is considered to be a nuisance organism rather than a
pathogen. It has been reported in up to 3% of drinking-water samples at a
concentration of up to 2300 cfu/ml (Allen and Geldreich 1975). In human
volunteer studies, an oral dose of 106 cfu/ml was required to colonize the gut,
but none of the volunteers experienced any disease symptoms (Buck and Cooke
1969). In view of the widespread incidence of P. aeruginosa in water and foods
and the apparent lack of gastrointestinal disease linked to the organism, it would
appear that the presence of this organism in potable water does not pose a threat
to human health in the population at large through the causation of diarrhoeal
disease.

4.5.3 Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC)
While the most clinically prevalent member of the genus Mycobacterium, M.
tuberculosis, is not thought to be transmitted by water, M. avium complex
(MAC) has been shown to be found growing in water systems. MAC has been
isolated from many natural water systems (Kazda 1973; George et al. 1980;
Biondi et al. 1982), together with many other species. However, the incidence of
MAC in treated drinking-water is much lower, although it can be found more
commonly in water systems in large buildings such as hospitals. In a study in
Los Angeles, California, USA (Glover et al. 1994), MAC was found in 9% of
samples taken from private dwellings but in 70% of samples taken from
hospitals. Another study (du Moulin et al. 1988) suggested that the increased
temperature of hospital water supplies favoured the proliferation of MAC.
    There is no doubt that MAC causes serious disease in immunocompromised
patients and that there is an association between the presence of MAC in
hospital water supplies and human disease. However, the role of MAC in
causing disease in the general community is much more tenuous. Further work
is required to determine the link between MAC and Crohn’s disease, although it
seems unlikely that infection with MAC is the only predisposing factor.
[Editors’ note: Because of the wide interest in the potential public health
significance of some non-tuberculous mycobacteria in water, including MAC,
this is the theme of a separate book in the same series as this volume.]

4.5.4 Other microorganisms
There are many other opportunistic pathogens that can be found in water
supplies and that may cause disease in the community. However, the incidence
                  Presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                 55

of infection with these organisms is generally low, certainly with regard to
gastrointestinal disease. One other organism perhaps merits mention, Legionella
pneumoniae. This organism causes a specific type of pneumonia known as
Legionnaires’ disease. While sporadic cases do occur, the majority of cases are
linked to large buildings such as hospitals and hotels and to the presence of the
organism in cooling towers. The organism can be found in potable water
supplies but predominates within poorly maintained hot water systems, where it
is able to out-compete other organisms because of its ability to grow at elevated
temperatures. It is not thought to cause gastrointestinal disease. A WHO
publication on Legionella and the prevention of legionellosis will be published
next year (WHO, in revision).


4.6 REGROWTH OF BACTERIA IN POINT-OF-USE AND
    POINT-OF-ENTRY DEVICES
As mentioned previously, there are many factors that can influence the growth
of bacteria in aquatic environments. The use of point-of-use (POU) devices such
as carbon filters and water softeners has increased substantially, and there has
been considerable debate over the growth of bacteria in such devices and the
potential health hazard that such growth presents. There is no doubt that the
installation of a POU device presents an opportunity for regrowth of the bacteria
present in the influent water. This has been demonstrated in many studies
(Brewer and Carmichael 1979; Camper et al. 1985; Reasoner et al. 1987;
Rollinger and Dott 1987). The important question with regard to this regrowth is
with respect to the potential role of the bacteria in human disease.
    Not surprisingly, the range of bacteria found in POU devices is as extensive
as the range of organisms found in potable water, although when the
microbiological flora from these devices is examined, the numbers of different
species is often small, with one or two organisms predominating (Geldreich et
al. 1985; Rollinger and Dott 1987). The predominant organism within a given
POU device changes with time and reflects the flora of the incoming water as
well as the characteristics of the water. When POU devices are used on
microbially safe drinking-water supplies, then the growth of organisms should
not result in the presence of frank pathogens, although the number of
opportunistic pathogens may increase. There remains debate as to whether the
growth of these organisms represents a potential threat to human health.
Organisms that have been recovered from POU devices include Aeromonas,
Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, Flavobacterium and many others. All of these
organisms have been suggested as being opportunistic pathogens when present
56                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

in drinking-water. However, there is no credible evidence that consumption of
water containing these organisms has resulted in human gastrointestinal disease.
   Many studies have been conducted on the growth of bacteria on POU
devices; in general, all studies have shown that the number of bacteria in the
effluent water increases over that found in the influent water. However, the
organisms that predominate are those organisms that are adapted to growing in
an aquatic environment with low temperatures and low nutrient concentrations.
In a study of the colonization of POU devices, Geldreich et al. (1985) concluded
that “Although some opportunistic pathogens grew in the carbon filters, the
concentration of such organisms released in the product water did not approach
the 106 to 1010 cells per dose considered to be infective for an
immunocompromised consumer. However, opportunistic organisms not tested in
this study may be able to colonize point of use devices and attain concentrations
that could be infective.” In a later study of the health effects of bacterial
regrowth in POU granular activated carbon (GAC) filters, Calderon and Mood
(1988) concluded that “Considering the ubiquitous nature of the organisms that
colonized the POU-GAC filters, it may well be that these organisms just do not
cause infections or disease in man.” Despite these studies being completed over
a decade ago, no new evidence has been presented that can demonstrate that
regrowth of bacteria in municipal water supplies or in POU devices has led to
human disease.


4.7 POTENTIAL BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF REGROWTH
In order to colonize a POU device effectively, bacteria must be able to out-
compete other organisms both spatially and with respect to the effective use of
available nutrients. Organisms commonly found growing in water systems,
either natural or human-made, tend to be those that have a low optimal growth
temperature and are adapted to growing in low-nutrient environments. Frank
human pathogens do not fulfil these criteria, as their optimum growth
temperature is usually around 37 °C and they generally require complex nutrient
sources for rapid growth. In studies of the growth of organisms on GAC filters,
Camper et al. (1985) demonstrated that sterile filters could rapidly become
colonized with pathogens such as Salmonella typhimurium, Yersinia
enterocolitica and enterotoxigenic E. coli. However, when high levels of these
pathogens were introduced into filters that had an established microflora
originating from pathogen-free water, the organisms attached at a lower rate and
persisted for much shorter periods of time, despite the fact that the levels of
pathogens used were much higher than would normally be encountered in
potable water, even if a failure of disinfection had occurred. This “protective”
                  Presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                  57

effect was due to the competition of other bacteria that were more adapted to
growth in such conditions.


4.8 THE EFFECT OF AUTO-DISINFECTION OF POU
    DEVICES
Some POU devices (mainly water softeners) have been designed to disinfect the
ion exchange resin automatically, typically after a period of 96 h. The concept is
that such disinfection will reduce the microbial load on the resin and the
consequent release of organisms into the effluent. In studies performed on the
microbial colonization of different water softeners (C.R. Fricker, unpublished
observations), a water softener with automatic disinfection was compared with a
more traditional softener that did not have the facility to disinfect. Initially,
municipal tap water was allowed to run through the softeners at a rate similar to
that which would be used in a domestic household. Water samples of the
effluent were taken at regular intervals over periods of several weeks. Samples
were examined for the presence of coliforms and E. coli and heterotrophic plate
count (HPC). No coliforms or E. coli were detected in the influent or effluent
water. HPC levels increased over time, and this increase was most noticeable
when there was no flow (i.e., overnight); however, when the flow commenced in
the morning, the numbers of bacteria fell. Regeneration of the traditional
softener caused a further reduction in the levels of HPC detected. Disinfection
of the other softener resulted in a steep decline in the numbers of bacteria
detected in the effluent to levels similar to those in the incoming water.
However, the levels detected climbed quickly after disinfection, reaching levels
similar to those seen with the traditional softener.
   Both softeners were disinfected and fed with influent water contaminated
with 10% sewage (a level of bacteria that would be extremely unlikely to be
encountered in a potable supply) and allowed to stand overnight. The softeners
were then allowed to function normally, and the levels of E. coli present were
monitored. Because the traditional softeners regenerate more frequently than the
softener with auto-disinfection, the rate of decline in E. coli was no different in
the two types of softener. The physical action of the flowing water and the more
rigorous “washing” of the resin during regeneration removed the contaminating
bacteria, such that removal of the E. coli occurred within four days. Thus, while
disinfection of the resin reduced the bacterial load significantly, overall there
was no significant difference in the numbers of bacteria released by the two
types of softener.
58                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

4.9 CONCLUSIONS
Bacterial regrowth, whether in a municipal distribution system, POU device or
bottle of water, reflects the initial flora, the temperature, available nutrients and
water characteristics. Regrowth can be managed under some circumstances, but
it is almost impossible to prevent the growth of microorganisms that are adapted
to the aquatic environment. In all studies published to date, the levels of bacteria
that are present in the effluent water of POU devices or municipal distribution
systems where regrowth is occurring are far smaller than the levels of bacteria
seen in many foodstuffs. The types of bacteria present may be somewhat
different, but many of the species present in water are also present in foods, and
the levels of bacteria that are permissible in foods are considerably higher than
those attained in water, even after passage through a POU device. The essential
issue that requires clarification is whether the bacteria that are able to regrow in
an aquatic environment represent a significant health threat. Despite extensive
studies performed over a considerable period of time, there has not been a single
reputable publication that has demonstrated that regrowth in a properly
maintained water distribution system, bottle of water or POU device has
resulted in human infection.


4.10 REFERENCES
Allen, M.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1975) Bacteriological criteria for groundwater quality.
     Ground Water 13, 45–52.
Amann, R. and Ludwig, W. (2000) Ribosomal RNA-targeted nucleic acid probes for
     studies in microbial ecology. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 24, 555–565.
Ashiru, J.O., Salau, T. and Rotilu, I.O. (1993) Incidence of Aeromonas species in
     diarrhoeic stool, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria. Comp. Immunol.
     Microbiol. Infect. Dis. 16, 51–54.
Biondi, M., Marranzano, M., Allegra, A., Di Fazio, G., Faro, G. and Ferrante, M. (1982)
     Micobatteri aticipi isolate dal suolo e dale acque. Annali Sclavo 24, 496–502.
Brewer, W.S. and Carmichael, W.W. (1979) Microbiological characterization of granular
     activated carbon. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 71, 738–740.
Buck, A.C. and Cooke, E.M. (1969) The fate of ingested Pseudomonas aeruginosa in
     normal persons. J. Med. Microbiol. 2, 521–525.
Calderon, R.L. and Mood, E.W. (1988) Bacteria Colonizing Point-of-Use, Granular
     Activated Carbon Filters and Their Relationship to Human Health. CR-811904-01-
     0, US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Camper, A.K., LeChevallier, M.W., Broadway, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1985) Growth
     and persistence of pathogens on granular activated carbon. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 50, 1178–1382.
Chatterjee, B.D., Thawani, G. and Sanyal, S.N. (1989) Etiology of acute childhood
     diarrhoea in Calcutta. Trop. Gastrenterol. 10, 158–166.
                   Presence of bacteria in water after regrowth                      59

Clark, J.A., Burger, C.A. and Sabanatinos, L.E. (1982) Characterization of indicator
     bacteria in municipal raw water, drinking water and new main water supplies. Can.
     J. Microbiol. 28, 1002–1013.
du Moulin, G.C., Stottmeier, K.D., Pelletier, P.A., Tsang, A.Y. and Hedley-Whyte, J.
     (1988) Concentration of Mycobacterium avium by hospital water systems. J. Am.
     Med. Assoc. 260, 1599–1601.
Fricker, C.R. (2000) From media to molecules: New approaches to the detection of
     micro-organisms in water. J. Water Soil Pollut. 123, 35–41.
Fricker, C.R. and Tompsett, S. (1989) Aeromonas spp. in foods: a significant cause of
     food poisoning? Int. J. Food Microbiol. 9, 17–23.
Geldreich, E.E., Taylor, R.H., Blannon, J.C. and Reasoner, D.J. (1985) Bacterial
     colonization of point-of-use water treatment devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 77,
     72–75.
George, K.L., Parker, B.C., Gruft, G. and Jenkins, D.E. (1980) Epidemiology of infection
     with non-tuberculous mycobacteria. II. Growth and survival in natural waters. Am.
     Rev. Infect. Dis. 122, 89–94.
Glover, N., Holtzman, A., Aronson, T., Froman, S., Berlin, O.G.W., Dominguez, P.,
     Kunkel, K.A., Overturf, G., Stelma, G., Smith, C. and Yakrus, M. (1994) The
     isolation and identification of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) recovered
     from Los Angeles potable water, a possible source of infection in AIDS patients.
     Int. J. Environ. Health Res. 4, 63–72.
Hanninen, M.L. (1993) Occurrence of Aeromonas spp. in samples of ground meat and
     chicken. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 18, 339–342.
Hanninen, M.L. (1994) Phenotypic characteristics of the three hybridisation groups of
     Aeromonas hydrophila isolated from different sources. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 76, 455–
     462.
Havelaar, A.H., Versteegh, J.F. and During, M. (1990) The presence of Aeromonas in
     drinking water supplies in The Netherlands. Zentralbl. Hyg. Unweltmed. 190, 236–
     256.
Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., van Silfout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van der
     Kooij, D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with diarrhoea and
     from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 72, 435–444.
Kazda, J.F. (1973) The principles of the ecology of mycobacteria. In The Biology of the
     Mycobacteria (ed. C. Ratledge and J. Stanford), vol. 2, pp. 323–415, Academic
     Press, San Diego, CA.
Kirov, S.M., Hudson, J.A., Hayward, L.J. and Mott, S.J. (1994) Distribution of
     Aeromonas hydrophila hybridisation groups and their virulence properties in
     Australian clinical and environmental strains. Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 18, 71–73.
Knochel, S. and Jeppesen, C. (1990) Distribution and characteristics of Aeromonas in
     food and drinking water in Denmark. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 10, 317–322.
Krovacek, K., Peterz, M., Faris, A. and Mansson, I. (1989) Enterotoxigenicity and drug
     sensitivity of Aeromonas hydrophila isolated from well water in Sweden: a case
     study. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 8, 149–154.
LeChevallier, M.W., Seider, R.J. and Evans, T.M. (1980) Enumeration and
     characterization of standard plate count bacteria in chlorinated and raw water
     supplies. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 40, 922–930.
60                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

LeChevallier, M.W., Evans, T.M., Seider, R.J., Daily, O.P, Merrell, B.R., Rollins, D.M.
     and Joseph, S.W. (1982) Aeromonas sobria in chlorinated drinking water supplies.
     Microb. Ecol. 8, 325–333.
Millership, S.E. and Chattopadhyay, B. (1985) Aeromonas hydrophila in chlorinated
     water supplies. J. Hosp. Infect. 6, 75–80.
Moyer, N.P., Luccini, G.M., Holcomb, L.A., Hall, N.H. and Altwegg, M. (1992)
     Application of ribotyping for diffentiating aeromonads isolated from clinical and
     environmental sources. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58, 1940–1944.
Palumbo, S.A., Bencivengo, M.M., Del Corral, F., Williams, A.C. and Buchanan, R.L.
     (1989) Characterization of the Aeromonas hydrophila group isolated from retail
     foods of animal origin. J. Clin. Microbiol. 27, 854–859.
Prescott, A.M. and Fricker, C.R. (1999) Use of PNA oligonucleotides for the in situ
     detection of Escherichia coli in water. Mol. Cell. Probes 13, 261–268.
Reasoner, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1985) A new medium for the enumeration and
     subculture of bacteria from potable water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49, 1–7.
Reasoner, D.J., Blannon, J.C. and Geldreich, E.E. (1987) Microbiological characteristics
     of third-faucet point-of-use devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 79(10), 60–66.
Reasoner, D.J., Blannon, J.C., Geldreich, E.E. and Barnick, J. (1989) Nonphotosynthetic
     pigmented bacteria in a potable water treatment and distribution system. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 55, 912–921.
Reynolds, D.R. and Fricker, C.R. (1999) Application of laser scanning for the rapid and
     automated detection of bacteria in water samples. J. Appl. Microbiol. 86, 785–795.
Rollinger, Y. and Dott, W. (1987) Survival of selected bacterial species in sterilized
     activated carbon filters and biological activated carbon filters. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 53, 777–781.
Sow, A., Samb, A., Chiron, J.P., Denis, F., Diop, E.H. and Diop, I. (1977) Two
     choleriform syndromes caused by Aeromonas hydrophila observed in Western
     Africa. Bull. Soc. Med. Afr. Noire Lang. Fr. 22, 140–145.
WHO (2002) Aeromonas. In Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn,
     Addendum: Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water, pp. 1–13, World Health
     Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
     Organization, Geneva.
5
Bacteria of potential health concern
N.F. Lightfoot




5.1 INTRODUCTION
Organisms detected by the heterotrophic plate count (HPC) are ubiquitous in
drinking-water. In order to assess the basis of confidence in existing
measurements, particularly of the HPC, we have to re-examine the current role
of potential waterborne bacteria in human disease. In this chapter, we therefore
consider the following groups of bacteria of concern:

      •     commensal bacteria;
      •     recognized pathogens;
      •     emerging bacteria; and
      •     bioterrorist threat agents.

The key factor in assessing the utility of the HPC will be whether it will provide
a trigger for the successful investigation for these agents.

 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
62                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   This chapter addresses only the bacteria of concern; there are, of course,
viruses and protozoa that fall into the same categories. Furthermore,
Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts and virus particles are not
incorporated into biofilms permanently and of course do not go through growth
cycles.


5.2 COMMENSAL BACTERIA
Many bacteria live within our gastrointestinal tract, on our bodies or in the
environment with which we come into daily contact without there being any
resulting disease. In these situations, the bacteria are non-pathogenic and are
called commensal bacteria, which means “eating at the same table.” It is
recognized, however, that many of these organisms can cause infections such as
wound infections or septicaemia if they are introduced into body tissues,
particularly if the person is immunocompromised.
   Although many genera and species of heterotrophic bacteria have been
isolated from water and have been found to colonize distribution systems, no
outbreaks of associated human disease have been conclusively reported.
Suspicions have been raised about several organisms, such as Klebsiella spp.
and Citrobacter spp., but their frequent isolation and lack of involvement in
human gastrointestinal disease make them very unlikely candidates. There are
concerns about the potential for Aeromonas spp. and Yersinia enterocolitica to
cause diarrhoeal disease.

5.2.1 Aeromonas
Species of Aeromonas are ubiquitous in the environment and commonly occur
in soil, marine (Kaper et al. 1981) and freshwater habitats (Rhodes and Kator
1994). Marine recreational waters pose a potential source of human infection. In
a study in southern Italy, many of the isolated strains produced several virulence
factors, and all isolates produced cytotoxin and haemolysin. Three isolates
produced enterotoxin, and all isolates bound to human intestinal cells in varying
degrees (Krovacek et al. 1994). A survey of chlorinated water in which 286
samples were taken from taps and storage tanks in nine London and Essex
boroughs and nine local hospitals revealed the presence of Aeromonas
hydrophila in 25% of samples during the summer months and in 7% during the
winter months (Millership and Chattopadhyay 1985).
   Aeromonas spp. have been isolated from supplies of drinking-water
throughout the world and are able to grow in drinking-water. Their growth is
associated with the accumulation of biofilm on internal surfaces and is
influenced by temperature, the availability of organic carbon and the degree of
                      Bacteria of potential health concern                     63

stagnation. Biofilm can accumulate in the presence of chlorine at a
concentration of 0.8 mg/litre.
    In Swedish water distribution systems, sampling demonstrated counts of up
to 300 cfu/100 ml in raw water and up to 750 cfu/100 ml in tap water samples
(Kuhn et al. 1997). The significance of Aeromonas in drinking-water is not fully
understood. It is recognized that, on occasions, the ingestion of Aeromonas spp.
may lead to diarrhoeal disease, and this is associated with an enterotoxin (Janda
and Duffey 1988). There are numerous reports of Aeromonas isolates from
patients with diarrhoea, but also reports of Aeromonas strains that produce a
heat-labile cytotoxin, have enterotoxin activity (Ljungh et al. 1977; Turnbull et
al. 1984) and possess other pathogenic characteristics. It is suggested that when
all are present in a strain, enteric infection may result. Human volunteer
challenge trials using five enteropathogenic strains of Aeromonas hydrophila
demonstrated diarrhoea in only 2 of 57 persons with administered doses ranging
from 104 to 105 cfu (Morgan et al. 1985). A number of factors, such as age,
immunocompetence, previously developed immunity, exposure and infective
doses of the organisms, as well as the possession of virulence factors, could
affect the ability of Aeromonas to establish overt infection.
    In the United Kingdom study of infectious intestinal disease in England, the
percentage isolation rates were the same in diarrhoeal cases and in matched
controls (Food Standards Agency 2000).
    The absence of defined outbreaks and the low levels of infectivity in human
volunteer experiments suggest that people have a relatively high degree of
resistance to infection with Aeromonas.
    The significance of Aeromonas in drinking-water in the Netherlands has been
reviewed (van der Kooij 1988), and the health authorities in the Netherlands
have defined maximum values for Aeromonas present in drinking-water: i.e.,
200 cfu/100 ml in water distribution systems and 20 cfu/100 ml in water leaving
the production plant. However, there have not been any outbreaks of disease in
the United Kingdom, even though blooms of Aeromonas occur in some
distribution systems during the summer months.
    There have been reports suggesting associations between the presence of
heterotrophs in water in the distribution system and illness in the consumers of
that water. In a study reported from Egypt, 9 out of 10 samples analysed from
the district of Cairo were positive for Aeromonas strains, of which 56% were
reported to be enterotoxigenic (Ghanen et al. 1993). Aeromonas was isolated
from diarrhoeic and non-diarrhoeic faeces of children. Typing of the isolates
was not performed. There have been two other reports of Aeromonas
colonization of distribution systems (Havelaar et al. 1992; Moyer et al. 1992).
64                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

In the latter, sophisticated typing systems did not reveal any correlation between
isolates made from drinking-water and those made from patients.
   Additional information on Aeromonas may be found in WHO (2002).

5.2.2 Yersinia
Yersinia is a genus of heterotrophic bacteria with 11 recognized species, some
of which cause disease in humans, and both pathogenic and non-pathogenic
strains of Yersinia have been found in surface water and unchlorinated drinking-
water (Lassen 1972; Caprioli et al. 1978; Cafferkey et al. 1993). The source of
the organism is the environment or non-human hosts, such as wild animals and
birds. However, only certain serotypes of Yersinia enterocolitica that occur in
the environment are considered to be pathogenic for humans. This depends on
the possession of virulence factors associated with pathogenesis of infection.
Serotypes O:3, O:4,32, O:5,27, O:6,30, O:6,31, O:8, O:9 and O:21 are thought
to be pathogenic for humans and cause diarrhoea or mesenteric adenitis, a
disease that often mimics appendicitis. Other serotypes have been isolated from
patients with infection, but their role is uncertain. The most common serotype of
Yersinia enterocolitica associated with human infection is serotype O:3. The
significance of Yersinia in patients with diarrhoea is uncertain, however; on
occasion, it can cause mesenteric adenitis and reactive arthritis with an antibody
response and is clearly pathogenic. On other occasions, most isolates from
patients with mild diarrhoea do not contain the full set of virulence markers
found in isolates from systemic infections.

5.2.3 Klebsiella
A study of Klebsiella species isolated from water in Germany identified so-
called virulence factors such as pili, serum resistance and siderophore
production in isolates from surface waters and compared them with clinical
isolates (Padschun et al. 2001). Fifty-three per cent of surface water samples
were positive for Klebsiella pneumoniae. The surface water isolates resembled
the clinical isolates in the expression of these virulence factors, and it was
suggested that further studies should be carried out to determine the public
health implications. Klebsiella is ubiquitous in nature and is a commensal
organism of the gastrointestinal tract, where it does not cause disease. It may be
involved in urinary tract infection, particularly in females, where it is transferred
across the perineum to the urethra, and it may be involved in wound infections,
particularly following bowel surgery.
                       Bacteria of potential health concern                         65

5.2.4 Pseudomonas
There are many species of Pseudomonas that are widespread in the environment
and commonly occurring in soil and water. They are capable of growth in low-
nutrient situations and can grow in water in distribution systems if they gain
access and on materials used in domestic plumbing situations. They may
colonize taps and grow on surfaces, such as plastic pipes in drink vending
machines. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most important species for public
health considerations, although it does not cause any effects if it is ingested. It is
resistant to many antibiotics and can produce serious nosocomial infections if it
gains access to the body through wounds or intravenous lines. Hospital control
of infection procedures that limit the use of tap water is an effective measure to
prevent disease. In the community, P. aeruginosa may readily colonize spa
pools and lead to wound infections if persons with open wounds or sores use
them. Care must also be taken in the care of contact lenses and contact lens
solutions to prevent contamination by P. aeruginosa on taps, leading to eye
infections from water contact.

5.2.5 Virulence factors
Pathogenic bacteria produce a variety of virulence factors — e.g., adherence
factors, so that the organisms can attach to intestinal cells; enzymes, including
haemolysin, that facilitate cell invasion; exotoxins; and several other factors that
produce immunomodulation. The successful pathogen will possess a whole
range of these factors, but some are critical; an example is Vibrio cholerae with
and without cholera toxin gene, the former producing cholera and the latter
being avirulent. It is important to appreciate that the possession of a single
virulence factor by an organism not normally considered to be pathogenic may
not be significant. The assessment of virulence should therefore include
detection systems for a whole range of virulence factors. There are no simple
tests available; although haemolysis on blood agar by heterotrophs (Payment et
al. 1993) and cytopathic effects on Y1 and renal cell overlays (Lye and Dufour
1991) have been put forward as assessment methods, they will not indicate
which organisms are potential human pathogens.
    Virulence factors enable bacteria to survive in hostile environments. The
approach to a better understanding of them should be to identify disease states
where the organisms are involved through epidemiological studies, investigate
the pathogenic mechanisms in detail, examine the host responses and then look
at possible transmission routes, appropriate interventions and protection of the
public.
66                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

5.2.6 Hospital-acquired infection
Many different types of heterotrophic bacteria occur in hospital distribution
systems, and counts may increase because of stagnation caused by the many
“dead ends” that result from previously modified systems. All wet areas in
wards, such as sluices, showers and baths, become colonized with Gram-
negative bacteria such as Pseudomonas, Klebsiella, Citrobacter and
Acinetobacter. These areas also provide ecological niches for highly resistant
organisms, which can be transmitted to patients and cause infection problems.
The heterotrophic bacteria in the water distribution systems have not caused
infection in patients by ingestion; however, in clinical areas or in special
situations such as home care, where water is used to provide humidification in
incubators, nebulizers and ventilators, the use of tap water has led to respiratory
tract colonization and infections. These problems have been largely eliminated
by policies for infection control. It has been recognized that tap water is not
sterile and should not be used in situations where organisms from tap water or
taps may initiate infection. Instead, the policies recommend the use of sterilized
or boiled water in all situations that could pose a risk to patients. Any harmful
effects of heterotrophic bacteria are therefore eliminated. Patients are, however,
encouraged to drink tap water, as the heterotrophic bacteria present pose no risk
unless the patient is significantly immunocompromised, in which case boiled
water is recommended.


5.3 RECOGNIZED WATERBORNE PATHOGENS
Many of the organisms that cause gastroenteritis can be transmitted by the
waterborne route when there is faecal contamination from humans or other
animals. The human pathogens that can be transmitted orally via drinking-water
are listed in Table 5.1 (compiled from data provided by the Communicable
Disease Surveillance Centre), together with a summary of their health
significance and main properties.
Table 5.1. Orally transmitted waterborne pathogens and their significance in water
supplies
                                  Persistence   Resistance   Relative    Important
                   Health         in water      to           infective   animal
Pathogen           significance   supplies1     chlorine2    dose3       reservoir
Bacteria
Campylobacter      High           Moderate      Low          Moderate    Yes
jejuni, C. coli
Pathogenic
                   High           Moderate      Low          High        Yes
Escherichia coli
                         Bacteria of potential health concern                          67

                                     Persistence    Resistance    Relative     Important
                     Health          in water       to            infective    animal
Pathogen             significance    supplies1      chlorine2     dose3        reservoir
Salmonella           High            Moderate       Low           High4        No
typhi
Other                High            Long           Low           High         Yes
salmonellae
Shigella spp.        High            Short          Low           Moderate     No
Vibrio cholerae      High            Short          Low           High         No
Yersinia             High            Long           Low           High (?)     No
enterocolitica
Pseudomonas          Moderate        May            Moderate      High (?)     No
aeruginosa5                          multiply
Aeromonas spp.       Moderate        May            Low           High (?)     No
                                     multiply
 Viruses
 Adenoviruses         High            ?               Moderate      Low         No
 Enteroviruses        High            Long            Moderate      Low         No
 Hepatitis A          High            ?               Moderate      Low         No
 Enterically          High            ?               ?             Low         No
 transmitted non-
 A non-B
 hepatitis,
 hepatitis E
 Norwalk virus        High            ?               ?             Low         No
 Rotavirus            High            ?               ?             Moderate No (?)
 Small round          Moderate        ?               ?             Low (?)     No
 viruses
 Protozoa
 Entamoeba            High            Moderate        High          Low         No
 histolytica
 Giardia              High            Moderate        High          Low         Yes
 intestinalis
 Cryptosporidium High                 Long            High          Low         Yes
 parvum
 Helminths
 Dracunculus          High            Moderate        Moderate      Low         Yes
 medinensis
? - not known or uncertain
1
  Detection period for infective stage in water at 20 °C: short, up to one week; moderate,
one week to one month; long, over one month.
2
  When the infective stage is freely suspended in water treated at conventional doses and
contact times. Resistance moderate, agent may not be completely destroyed.
3
  Dose required to cause infection in 50% of health adult volunteers: may be as little as
one infective unit for some viruses.
4
  From experiments with human volunteers.
5
  Main route of infections is by skin contact, but can infect immunosuppressed or cancer
patients orally.
68                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety


   The number of recognized outbreaks is low compared with reports of
outbreaks due to other routes of transmission. Details of outbreaks of these
potential waterborne pathogens in the United Kingdom are given in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2. Outbreaks of bacterial pathogens associated with infectious intestinal disease
in the United Kingdom
                                                                          Waterborne
                                                          Laboratory      outbreaks,
                        Incubation     Duration of       reports, UK,     UK, 1991–
  Causative agent         period        symptoms             2001           2000
  Campylobacter spp.     2–5 days        4–6 days           56 420            20
  E. coli                12–72 h        <2 weeks              n.a.
  (enteropathogenic)
  E. coli                12–72 h         3–5 days         n.a.
  (enterotoxigenic)
  E. coli                1–6 days        4–6 days         768                  6
  (verocytotoxigenic)
  Salmonellas            12–72 h        <3 weeks        16 465                 1
  (non-enteric fever)
  Salmonellas           1–3 weeks      10–14 days         17*                  0
  (typhi, paratyphi)
  Shigella spp.          1–7 days       <2 weeks         966*                  0
  Vibrio cholerae        2–3 days        <7 days          30*                  0
  (O1, O139)
  Vibrio spp.            12–18 h         <7 days          n.a.                 0
  (not V. cholerae O1,
  O139)
* Provisional figures.
 Source: Communicable Disease Reports, Public Health Laboratory Service.


5.3.1 Campylobacter
Campylobacter are the most common cause of human bacterial gastroenteritis in
the United Kingdom, with Campylobacter jejuni being the predominantly
isolated species. They are widespread in the environment and occur very
commonly in the intestinal tracts of animals, including birds. Ninety-five per
cent of ready-prepared chickens are contaminated with Campylobacter, and
poultry meat is thought to be an important source of infection. Wild birds also
have a high intestinal colonization rate. Campylobacter can easily be isolated
from surface waters, and a number of outbreaks in the United Kingdom have
been associated with private water supplies. An outbreak of gastroenteritis
                       Bacteria of potential health concern                      69

associated with contamination of a public water supply occurred in Wales in
September 2000. Two hundred and eighty-one people out of a population of
1215 served by the supply developed gastroenteritis following an incident of
influx of surface water into a holding tank for treated water. Fifteen of the cases
were positive for Campylobacter, but it was not isolated from the water;
indicator organisms were detected.

5.3.2 Escherichia coli
Most E. coli are not pathogenic and are part of the normal human bowel flora.
Some types possess virulence factors and cause gastroenteritis in humans by
several different mechanisms. Seven such groups have been defined, of which
three may be waterborne (Food Standards Agency 2000):

   •   Enteropathogenic E. coli have been associated with outbreaks in children
       in nurseries and hospital wards. These strains belong to particular “O”
       serotypes.
   •   Enterotoxigenic E. coli are a common cause of diarrhoea in travellers.
       They are identified by the production of a heat-stable toxin and a heat-
       labile toxin.
   •   Verocytotoxigenic E. coli (VTEC) cause serious diarrhoeal disease, with
       bloody diarrhoea and painful abdominal cramps. In 10–15% of cases,
       haemolytic uraemic syndrome develops as a complication, which can
       result in kidney failure or even death. The most frequent serotype
       isolated is O157, but other serotypes, such as O139, have been reported.
       The organism is common in cattle and sheep and other farm animals, in
       which it behaves as a commensal organism and does not cause any
       recognized disease. The infectious dose for VTEC is very low, about 10–
       100 organisms, which explains their potential to cause waterborne
       outbreaks when animal faeces-contaminated material gains access to
       water supplies past treatment or where treatment is inadequate.

   In North America, there have been two outbreaks of waterborne VTEC
gastroenteritis. In August 1999 at the Washington County Fair in New York
State, USA, contaminated well water infected over 1000 people and resulted in
two deaths (Anonymous 1999). In May 2000, a waterborne outbreak occurred in
Ontario, Canada, where 1286 people were infected. Six people died, and 65
patients were admitted to hospital. The source of the contamination was manure
70                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

runoff accelerated by high-density farming and flooding, which probably had
occurred over two months (Anonymous 2000).
   Indicator organism tests will indicate the potential for the presence and
survival of pathogenic E. coli in water, but it should be remembered that
conventional analytical methods may not detect VTEC, as they do not all grow
at 44 °C. Limitations in indicator organism detection systems highlight the need
for water safety management. Fortunately, these organisms are highly
susceptible to water disinfection techniques.

5.3.3 Salmonella
The salmonellas cause two distinct types of disease. One group of two species,
Salmonella typhi and Salmonella paratyphi, is the cause of the enteric fevers,
typhoid and paratyphoid. The other group, consisting of over 2000 serotypes of
what is now considered to be one species, Salmonella enterica, causes
gastroenteritis. These serovars were previously considered to be separate species
and were named after the city or animal from which the organism was initially
isolated. Transmission of salmonellas is by the faecal oral route and often
involves food and sometimes water. The enteric fever salmonellas are associated
only with humans and human disease and remain important causes of
waterborne disease worldwide, but nowadays very rarely in developed
countries. The gastroenteritis salmonellas are widespread in animals and are
often found in poultry, eggs and meat products. Food is the major vehicle of
infection, but transmission via water does occur, even though the bacteria
survive for only a few hours or days in surface water. Normal water treatment
processes are adequate to remove the organism from drinking-water. The
organisms are susceptible to chlorine disinfection. The infectious dose for
humans for the enteric fever salmonellas is about 102–103 organisms, whereas
the infectious dose for humans for the gastroenteritis salmonellas is about 106–
108 organisms, mainly because of their susceptibility to gastric acid.
   The enteric fevers are systemic infections presenting with high fever (40–
41 °C), headache, malaise and rigors. Diarrhoea does not usually occur, and
patients often experience constipation in early enteric fever.
   A massive epidemic of typhoid fever occurred in Tajikistan in 1997, resulting
in 8901 cases and 95 deaths (Mermin et al. 1999). Investigations revealed
inadequate treatment of faecally contaminated water, and tap water samples
showed a mean faecal coliform level of 175 cfu/100 ml. The outbreak was
controlled after installing coagulation and chlorination at the water treatment
plants. Tank water contaminated with Salmonella enterica serovar Saintpaul
caused an outbreak of 28 cases among 200 workers on a construction site in
1999 (Taylor et al. 2000). The contamination was believed to have been caused
                      Bacteria of potential health concern                     71

by frogs or mice. The HPC would have indicated a developing problem and
could have triggered further investigation.

5.3.4 Shigella
Species of Shigella are the causative organisms of dysentery and are almost
entirely human pathogens; no other animal species play a role in maintenance or
spread of infection in the community. Occasionally, higher primates become
infected by human-to-animal transmission. Shigellas are transmitted by the
faecal–oral route and sometimes, because the infectious dose is low, around 102
organisms, by person-to-person spread. Patients excrete large numbers of
organisms, between 105 and 108 per gram of faeces. Point source outbreaks
associated with infected food handlers are reported from time to time (Jewell et
al. 1993). Occasionally, waterborne outbreaks occur, although the organism
does not survive for more than a few hours or days in surface water, and normal
water treatment processes are adequate to remove it from drinking-water.
   Shigella sonnei caused a waterborne outbreak of gastroenteritis in Ioannina in
Greece in 2000, affecting 288 persons in a community of 2213. The organism
was isolated from tap water as well as patients (Alamanos et al. 2000).

5.3.5 Vibrio
The Vibrio genus is composed of over 30 species, of which the most important
is V. cholerae, the cause of epidemic cholera, a predominantly waterborne
infection. The species V. cholerae is subdivided into 140 O-serovars, of which
the toxin-producing strains are O1 and O139. The epidemiological picture of
cholera has changed and now has a wide distribution. The seventh pandemic
that began in 1961 was caused by El Tor strains; it appeared in Peru in 1991,
having been absent from South America for some considerable time. Within a
year, it had spread to all other countries of South and Central America. The
O139 strain appeared in Bangladesh in 1992, where it still persists. In 1998, it
was isolated from 3.4% of patients with acute secretory diarrhoea admitted to
hospital in Calcutta.
   The O1 strain continues to occur in about 19.7% of patients (Basu et al.
2000). Cholera is a disease of humans, and approximately 5% of patients
become carriers. The organism survives well in the environment, and viable but
non-culturable organisms have been described (Colwell and Huq 1994). There is
quite clearly potential for further epidemic spread.
   Other Vibrio species, particularly Vibrio parahaemolyticus, have been
associated with diarrhoea, often through the consumption of raw, contaminated
72                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

seafood. Vibrios are removed from raw waters by chlorination and normal water
treatment processes.


5.4 EMERGING PATHOGENS
Although many of the established waterborne pathogens have been controlled
by sanitation measures and water treatment processes, new diseases continue to
be identified, and new discoveries present a better understanding of existing
chronic diseases. Many of these discoveries raise questions about possible
waterborne transmission. The bacteria that now need to be considered in this
developing area are Helicobacter pylori, Mycobacterium species, Burkholderia
pseudomallei and Francisella tularensis.

5.4.1 Helicobacter pylori
Although spiral-shaped organisms have been observed in the stomachs of
humans for many years, it was not until 1982 that a Campylobacter-like
organism was isolated from patients with gastritis and a causative relationship
between a new species, Helicobacter pylori, and gastric disease realized
(Warren and Marshall 1983). H. pylori is a pathogen of global proportions and
is generally accepted as the cause of most gastric and peptic ulcers. These
diseases may lead to gastric adenocarcinoma.
   H. pylori occurs worldwide in developing and developed countries. Where
low degrees of hygiene and socioeconomic problems exist, infection rates may
approach 100%. In developed countries, infection rates are probably between 30
and 60%.
   Transmission from person to person is not fully understood, mainly because
of the difficulty in culturing the organism and identifying it outside the body.
Epidemiological studies show the cluster phenomenon of H. pylori infection in
families. It is suggested that infected mothers may play a key role in
transmission within families (Rothenbacher et al. 1999).
   H. pylori has been identified in faeces, and it is assumed that transmission is
therefore oral–oral or faecal–oral.
   The organism has not been isolated from the environment or from drinking-
water, and waterborne transmission remains a possibility that should be
investigated. The epidemiology, however, points to person-to-person
transmission in early life.
                       Bacteria of potential health concern                       73

5.4.2 Mycobacterium
The mycobacteria are a group of slow-growing organisms. The most important
is Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative organism of tuberculosis, which
takes about 4–6 weeks to grow in the diagnostic laboratory. M. tuberculosis is
not a waterborne pathogen; there are, however, a number of Mycobacterium
species that occur in the environment and can cause disease in humans.
Mycobacterium avium and its related species cause an infection of cervical
lymph nodes; it occurs in the environment and is most probably accompanied by
ingestion or inhalation. M. avium can grow in water to which no additional
nutrients have been added; although water treatment processes of coagulation
and filtration appear to reduce the numbers, it is not affected by chlorine levels
of 1 mg/ml. It is therefore not surprising that these organisms can regrow and
colonize domestic water systems. Once ingested, M. avium can colonize the
pharynx without causing any disease. The number of cases reported was very
low, but patients with HIV/AIDS are very susceptible. [Editors’ note: Because
of the wide interest in the potential public health significance of some non-
tuberculous mycobacteria in water, including Mycobacterium avium complex
(MAC), this is the theme of a separate book in the same series as this volume.]
   Another species, Mycobacterium xenopi, has been reported as the waterborne
cause of spinal infections following a look-back exercise on over 3000 patients
who had undergone discectomy operations some years beforehand (Astagneau
et al. 2001).
   Mycobacterium paratuberculosis causes Johne’s disease in cattle. It is a
chronic wasting disease with considerable economic consequences. The
organism is extremely difficult to culture; when it does grow, it is very slow and
dependent on an exogenous source of mycobactin, which is an iron chelating
agent produced by all other mycobacteria. Transmission is by either direct or
indirect contact with infected animals and occurs mainly through the faecal–oral
route. Organisms are ingested in large numbers by young animals when they
feed in troughs that have been contaminated by faeces of shedding animals
(Chiodini et al. 1984).
   M. paratuberculosis has recently been suggested as a cause of Crohn’s
disease, a non-specific chronic transmural inflammatory disease of humans that
affects the intestinal tract, commonly the ileum. The disease is chronic,
debilitating and of a relapsing nature; the symptoms experienced include
diarrhoea with blood in the stools and abdominal pain. Complications include
obstruction, fistulation and abscesses. There have been many bacteria implicated
over the years, but no definite etiological agent has been found. It is thought that
immunological mechanisms may play an important role.
74                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

    Molecular techniques have been developed for the diagnosis of M.
paratuberculosis infections and applied to human surgically resected tissues. M.
paratuberculosis was detected in approximately 30% of samples, but the sets of
results from different laboratories have been conflicting. Some studies were
unable to detect the organism; in other studies, the organism was detected in a
smaller percentage of healthy subjects.
    In addition, a few Crohn’s disease patients have shown clinical remission
when treated with anti-tuberculosis drugs.
    There is therefore much more work to be done to acquire a better
understanding. M. paratuberculosis may be present in surface water
contaminated by cattle faeces. Routine testing for indicator organisms would
detect faecal pollution, and normal water treatment processes of coagulation and
filtration are likely to remove mycobacteria. It is unlikely that drinking-water is
a major source of M. paratuberculosis, and its association with Crohn’s disease
is still under investigation.

5.4.3 Burkholderia pseudomallei
Burkholderia pseudomallei is the cause of melioidosis, an acute pneumonia
often followed by systemic infection with later presentations of abscesses. The
organism is widespread in the environment and was originally described in
Rangoon in patients compromised by severe poverty who had presumably
inhaled the organism in dust when sleeping on the ground. It occurs commonly
in southeast Asia and has been detected in service personnel repatriated from
those areas in the past. It was also investigated as a biological weapon by
several nations, to be released as an aerosol and cause pneumonia infection in
those exposed. A recent study in Bologna, Italy, detected B. pseudomallei in 7%
of 85 samples of drinking-water collected from public and private buildings.
The mean count was 578 cfu/100 ml. The occurrence of the organism was found
to correlate with the HPC at 22 and 36 °C (Zanetti et al. 2000).

5.4.4 Francisella tularensis
Tularaemia is a zoonosis caused by a highly infective and virulent organism
Francisella tularensis, which occurs throughout the northern hemisphere but
has never been isolated within the United Kingdom. It occurs in a wide range of
animal reservoir posts and can be isolated from the environment in water and
mud. It is transmitted to humans who come in close contact with the animal
reservoir, arthropods that feed on them or debris and dust associated with them.
It can also be transmitted through the ingestion of contaminated water. Human
epidemics sometimes occur and are associated with epizootics in the animal
                       Bacteria of potential health concern                       75

populations, evidenced by die-offs. There are several presentations of tularaemia
in humans, depending on the route of exposure. Ingestion usually results in
oropharyngeal tularaemia, with fever, pharyngitis and cervical lymphadenitis.
Other forms include ulcero-glandular, pleuropneumonic and typhoidal.
   Following the recent war in Kosovo, over 900 suspected cases of tularaemia
were identified and 327 cases confirmed serologically. The epidemiological
investigation pointed to rodent-contaminated wells, and rodent carcasses found
in some wells tested positive for F. tularensis (Reintjes et al. 2002).
   In a waterborne outbreak reported from Spain, 19 cases who had contact with
river-caught crayfish were identified (Anda et al. 2001). Attempts to isolate F.
tularensis from water were unsuccessful. Drinking-water was not involved. F.
tularensis is notoriously difficult to culture, requiring a source of cysteine.
   F. tularensis was investigated and developed as a biological weapon; the
infectious dose was found to be extremely low — 10 organisms.


5.5 BIOTERRORISM THREAT AGENTS
The classical biological warfare agents that were investigated and sometimes
developed by certain countries in the past (Table 5.3) were intended for aerosol
dissemination to cause infection in those exposed. Since the events of 11
September 2001 in the USA and the anthrax letters, awareness of the threat of
bioterrorism has been raised considerably. As the consequences could be
disastrous, much planning and international cooperation have occurred to
prevent any future deliberate releases or to limit their effects, should they occur.
One of the concerns is the deliberate contamination of drinking-water, where
many people could be exposed. Drinking-water treatment processes would
likely remove some contamination of the raw waters, but deliberate
contamination post-treatment could pose a greater problem. There are, of
course, the problems of dilution, the effects of chlorine and the survivability of
the agent in a hostile environment to take into account.
   The recognized waterborne pathogens described above are potential
deliberate release agents in water, and each nation’s planning will have to take
into account the laboratory capability required to minimize the impact and even
to signal that an incident is occurring. The role of water testing will need to be
re-evaluated.


5.6 CONCLUSIONS
These are the bacteria of concern, and they need to be taken into account when
re-evaluating the role of the HPC for monitoring the hygienic quality of water.
76                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

The list is quite considerable. Although the recognized waterborne pathogens,
which are all faecal in origin, will be potentially present if the faecal indicator
organisms are detected, pathogens that are non-faecal in origin will of course
not be similarly signalled. The sensitivity of the faecal indicator organisms test
is quite high and has stood the test of time; low numbers of faecal indicator
organisms have often been detected without there being any public health
consequences. There is, therefore, a margin of safety, and this probably applies
to gastroenteritis-causing viruses that are also faecal in origin. It does not,
however, apply to the intestinal parasites Cryptosporidium and Giardia.
Table 5.3. Examples of classical biological warfare agents
 Agent                                        Disease
 Bacillus anthracis                           Anthrax
 Brucella species                             Brucellosis
 Burkholderia mallei                          Glanders
 Burkholderia pseudomallei                    Melioidosis
 Francisella tularensis                       Tularaemia
 Yersinia pestis                              Plague
 Rickettsia species                           Typhus
 Coxiella burnetii                            Q fever
 Clostridium botulinum toxin                  Botulism
 Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin B          Staphylococcal food poisoning
 Smallpox virus                               Smallpox

   The remaining bacteria of concern are either heterotrophs that might have a
role in disease or emerging pathogens that do have a role in disease and could
possibly be waterborne. It is important that these organisms and diseases are
kept under surveillance in order to confirm or refute the suggested associations.
Many of the organisms are difficult to grow, and there is no validated trigger of
when to look for them.
   The HPC does not measure all organisms present, of which many will be
non-culturable but viable, and indeed several of the organisms of concern
described above would not grow on HPC media. The HPC, however, does give
an indication of change in the flora of drinking-water, and the HPC should be
evaluated as a trigger for further investigation. Many new molecular techniques
for the detection of pathogens and putative pathogens in water are being
described (Waage et al. 1999a,b,c; Lightfoot et al. 2001). DNA chips that have
the capacity to detect up to 44 pathogens on one single chip are being
developed.
   These tests are very expensive when compared with the routine monitoring
tests carried out in the water industry and in public health monitoring. The HPC
                         Bacteria of potential health concern                             77

should be evaluated as the signal of changing events in a drinking-water supply
to trigger the utilization of these new molecular tests to detect the new bacteria
of concern and any associated virulence genes.


5.7 REFERENCES
Alamanos, Y., Maipa, V., Levidiotou, S. and Gessouli, E. (2000) A community
     waterborne outbreak of gastroenteritis attributed to Shigella sonnei. Epidemiol.
     Infect. 125(3), 499–503.
Anda, P., Segura del Pozo, J., Diaz Garcia, J.M., Escudero, R., Garcia Pena, F.J., Lopez
     Velasco, M.C., Sellek, R.E., Jimenez Chillaron, M.R., Sanchez Serrano, L.P. and
     Martinez Navarro, J.F. (2001) Waterborne outbreak of tularemia associated with
     crayfish fishing. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 7(3 Suppl.), 575–582.
Anonymous (1999) Outbreak of Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Campylobacter among
     attendees of the Washington County Fair, New York State, 1999. Morbid. Mortal.
     Wkly. Rep. 48, 803–805.
Anonymous (2000) Waterborne outbreak of gastroenteritis associated with a
     contaminated municipal water supply, Walkerton, Ontario, May–June 2000. Can.
     Commun. Dis. Rep. 26(20), 170–173.
Astagneau, P., Desplaces, N., Vincent, V., Chicheportiche, V., Botherel, A., Maugat, S.,
     Lebascle, K., Leonard, P., Desenclos, J., Grosset, J., Ziza, J. and Brucker, G. (2001)
     Mycobacterium xenopi spinal infections after discovertebral surgery: investigation
     and screening of a large outbreak. Lancet 358(9283), 747–751.
Basu, A., Garg, P., Datta, S., Chakraborty, S., Bhattacharya, T., Khan, A., Ramamurthy,
     S., Bhattacharya, S.K., Yamasaki, S., Takeda, Y. and Nair, G.B. (2000) Vibrio
     cholerae O139 in Calcutta, 1992–1998: incidence, antibiograms, and genotypes.
     Emerg. Infect. Dis. 6, 139–147.
Cafferkey, M.T., Sloane, A., McCrae, S. and O’Morain, C.A. (1993) Yersinia
     fredeniksenii infection and colonisation in hospital staff. J. Hosp. Infect. 24(2), 109–
     115.
Caprioli, T., Drapeau, A.J. and Kasatiya, S. (1978) Yersinia enterocolitica: serotypes and
     biotypes isolated from humans and the environment in Quebec, Canada. J. Clin.
     Microbiol. 8(1), 7–11.
Chiodini, R.J., Van Kruiningen, H.J. and Mekal, R.S. (1984) Ruminant paratuberculosis
     (Johne’s disease): the current status and future prospects. Cornell Vet. 74, 218–262.
Colwell, R. and Huq, A. (1994) Vibrios in the environment: viable but non culturable
     Vibrio cholerae. In Vibrio cholerae and Cholera: Molecular to Global Perspectives
     (ed. I.K. Wachsmuth, P.A. Blake and Ø. Olsvik), pp. 117–133, ASM Press,
     Washington, DC.
Food Standards Agency (2000) A Report of the Study of Infectious Intestinal Disease in
     England (ISBN 0 11 322308 0).
Ghanen, E.H., Mussa, M.E. and Eraki, H.M. (1993) Aeromonas associated gastroenteritis
     in Egypt. Zentralbl. Mikrobiol. 148, 441–447.
Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., van Silfhout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van der
     Kooij, D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with diarrhoea and
     from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 72, 435–444.
78                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Janda, J.M. and Duffey, P.S. (1988) Mesophilic aeromonads in human disease: current
     taxonomy, laboratory identification and infectious disease spectrum. Rev. Infect.
     Dis. 10(5), 980–997.
Jewell, J.A., Warren, R.E. and Buttery, R.B (1993) Foodborne shigellosis. Commun. Dis.
     Rep. 3, R42–R44.
Kaper, J.B., Lockman, H., Colwell, R.R. and Joseph, S.W. (1981) Aeromonas
     hydrophila: ecology and toxigenicity of isolates from an estuary. J. Appl. Bacteriol.
     50(2), 359–377.
Krovacek, K., Pasquale, V., Balcola, S.B., Sopraro, V., Conte, M. and Dumontet, S.
     (1994) Comparison of putative virulence factors in Aeromonas hydrophila strains
     isolated from the marine environment and human diarrhoeal cases in southern Italy.
     Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60(4), 1379–1382.
Kuhn, I., Allestam, G., Huys, G., Janssen, P., Kersters, K., Krovacek, K. and Stenstrom,
     T.A. (1997) Diversity, persistence, and virulence of Aeromonas strains isolated from
     drinking water distribution systems in Sweden. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63(7),
     2708–2715.
Lassen, J. (1972) Yersinia enterocolitica in drinking water. Scand. J. Infect. Dis. 4, 125–
     127.
Lightfoot, N., Pearce, M., Place, B. and Salgado, C. (2001) Molecular techniques for the
     detection of bacterial pathogens in drinking water. In Rapid Detection Assays for
     Food and Water, pp. 59–65, Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.
Ljungh, A., Popoff, M. and Wadstrom, T. (1977) Aeromonas hydrophila in acute
     diarrhoeal disease: detection of enterotoxin and biotyping of strains. J. Clin.
     Microbiol. 6(2), 96–100.
Lye, D.J. and Dufour, A.P. (1991) A membrane filter procedure for assaying cytotoxic
     activity in heterotrophic bacteria isolated from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol.
     70, 89–94.
Mermin, J.H., Villar, R., Carpenter, J., Roverts, L., Samaridden, A., Gasanova, L.,
     Lomakina, S., Bapp, C., Hutwagner, L., Mead, P., Ross, B. and Mintz, E.D. (1999)
     A massive epidemic of multi drug-resistant typhoid fever in Tajikistan associated
     with consumption of municipal water. J. Infect. Dis. 179(6), 1416–1422.
Millership, S.E. and Chattopadhyay, B. (1985) Aeromonas hydrophila in chlorinated
     water supplies. J. Hosp. Infect. 6, 75–80.
Morgan, D.R., Johnson, P.C., DuPont, H.L., Satterwhite, T.K. and Wood, L.V. (1985)
     Lack of correlation between known virulence properties of Aeromonas hydrophila
     and enteropathogenicity for humans. Infect. Immun. 50, 62–65.
Moyer, N.P., Luccini, G.M., Holcomb, L.A., Hall, N.H. and Altwegg, M. (1992)
     Application of ribotyping for differentiating aeromonads isolated from clinical and
     environmental sources. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58, 1940–1944.
Padschun, R., Pietsch, S., Höller, C. and Ullmann, U. (2001) Incidence of Klebsiella
     species in surface waters and their expression of virulence factors. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 67(7), 3325–3327.
Payment, P., Coffin, E. and Paquette, G. (1993) Total plate count on blood agar medium
     to detect and enumerate bacteria in drinking water; a potential indicator of public
     health significance. In Proceedings of AWWA Water Quality Technology
     Conference, Miami, FL, pp. 1695–1699, American Water Works Association,
     Denver, CO.
Reintjes, R., Dedushaj, I., Gjini, A., Jorgensen, T.R., Cotter, B., Lieftucht, A., D’Ancona,
     F., Dennis, D.T., Kosoy, M.A., Mulliqi-Osmani, G., Grunow, R., Kalaveshi, A.,
                         Bacteria of potential health concern                          79

    Gashi, L. and Humolli, I. (2002) Tularemia outbreak investigation in Kosovo: Case
    control and environmental studies. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 8(1), 69–73.
Rhodes, M.W. and Kator, H. (1994) Seasonal occurrence of Aeromonas spp. as a
    function of biotype and water quality in temperate freshwater lakes. Water Res.
    28(11), 2241–2251.
Rothenbacher, D., Bode, G., Berg, G., Knayer, U., Gonser, T., Adler, G. and Brenner, H.
    (1999) Helicobacter pylori among preschool children and their parents: Evidence of
    parent–child transmission. J. Infect. Dis. 179, 398–402.
Taylor, R., Sloan, D., Cooper, T., Morton, B. and Hunter, I. (2000) A waterborne
    outbreak of Salmonella Saintpaul. Commun. Dis. Intell. 24(11), 336–400.
Turnbull, P.C., Lee, J.V., Miliotis, M.D., Van de Walle, S., Koornhopff, M.J., Jeffrey, L.
    and Byrant, T.N. (1984) Enterotoxin production in relation to taxonomic grouping
    and source of isolation of Aeromonas species. J. Clin. Microbiol. 19(2), 175–180.
van der Kooij, D. (1988) Properties of aeromonads and their occurrence and hygienic
    significance in drinking water. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Mikrobiol. Hyg. B 187(1), 1–17.
Waage, A.S., Vardund, T., Lund, V. and Kapperud, G. (1999a) Detection of small
    numbers of Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli cells in environmental
    water, sewage, and food samples by a seminested PCR assay. Appl. Environ.
    Microbiol. 65(4), 1636–1643.
Waage, A.S., Vardund, T., Lund, V. and Kapperud, G. (1999b) Detection of low
    numbers of Salmonella in environmental water, sewage, and food samples by a
    nested polymerase chain reaction assay. J. Appl. Microbiol. 87(3), 418–428.
Waage, A.S., Vardund, T., Lund, V. and Kapperud, G. (1999c) Detection of low numbers
    of pathogenic Yersinia enterocolitica in environmental water and sewage samples
    by a nested polymerase chain reaction assay. J. Appl. Microbiol. 87(6), 814–821.
Warren, J.R. and Marshall, B. (1983) Unidentified curved bacilli on gastric epithelium in
    active chronic gastritis. Lancet ii, 1273–1275.
WHO (2002) Aeromonas. In Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn,
    Addendum: Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water, pp. 1–13, World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
Zanetti, F., De Luca, G. and Stampi, S. (2000) Recovery of Burkholderia pseudomallei
    and B. cepacia from drinking water. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 59(1–2), 67–72.
6
Relationships between common
water bacteria and pathogens in
drinking-water
H. Leclerc




6.1 INTRODUCTION
To perform a risk analysis for pathogens in drinking-water, it is necessary, on
the one hand, to promote epidemiological studies, such as prospective cohort
and case–control studies. It is also appropriate, on the other hand, to better
understand the ecology of these microorganisms, especially in analysing in
detail the interactions between common water bacteria and pathogens in such
diverse habitats as free water and biofilms.
   It appears essential to distinguish two categories of drinking-water sources:
surface water and groundwater under the direct influence of surface water


 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                     81

(vulnerable), which require treatment, including disinfection; and groundwater,
such as natural mineral water, that is not vulnerable and so does not need to be
subjected to any type of disinfection to modify or eliminate its biological
components, so the water always contains the bacteria that are one of its primary
natural components.
   The purpose of this chapter is to analyse the relationships between water
bacteria and pathogens, taking in account these two categories of drinking-water
sources.


6.2 HETEROTROPHIC BACTERIA AS INHABITANTS OF
    A DRINKING-WATER ECOSYSTEM
Bacteria constitute the most successful form of life in environmental habitats.
The main reason for this success is phenotypic plasticity. It is the ability of a
bacterial genotype to respond phenotypically to environmental stimuli, rather
than the power of its genetic repertoire, that has produced the extensive
development of bacteria. A general phenotypic strategy has little by little
become apparent in many bacterial strains, as we have come to understand more
of the lifestyle that these organisms are able to adopt in response to changing
growth conditions.
    Direct observation of a wide variety of natural aquatic ecosystems as
drinking-water habitats has established that the cells of Pseudomonas spp.,
which are ubiquitous bacterial species, respond to favourable nutrient conditions
by adhering to available organic or inorganic surfaces and by binary fission and
exopolymer production to develop mature biofilms. These rod-shaped Gram-
negative cells grow predominantly in this matrix-enclosed sessile mode, in
which they are protected from adverse environmental conditions and chemical
antibacterial agents. Thus, the majority of microorganisms persist attached to a
surface with a structured biofilm ecosystem and not as free-floating cells. The
most striking studies with P. aeruginosa species (Costerton et al. 1995) have
shown that the planktonic biofilm transformation is controlled by a σ factor that
is similar to that which controls sporulation in Gram-positive bacteria. Biofilm
bacteria could be the product of a σ factor-directed phenotypic change in a large
cassette of genes. The reversal of this σ factor-directed change would generate
cells with the planktonic phenotype and would lead to the detachment of these
planktonic cells from the biofilm. The data suggest that the planktonic lifestyle
is favoured for dissemination and for persistence in a survival form, while the
biofilm sessile state is favoured for growth. The assumption of life cycles in the
development of bacteria in drinking-water, including alternating shifts between
82                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

planktonic and surface-attached stages, is particularly attractive for the
understanding of persistence and sometimes growth of pathogenic
microorganisms in drinking-water distribution systems (Szewzyk et al. 2000).
   Another factor that may promote the growth of bacteria in drinking-water
systems is the availability of organic carbon or other limiting compounds, such
as phosphate. Low-nutrient environments, termed oligotrophic environments,
primarily lack organic matter for the growth of heterotrophic bacteria.
Limitation or starvation with respect to one or more nutrients is common in
most bacteria in natural environments, such as surface water or groundwater
used as the raw water source for drinking-water. Therefore, it can be assumed
that the most important features to consider in the fate of drinking-water
ecosystems are bacteria growing in biofilm (fundamentally heterotrophic plate
count, or HPC, bacteria) and their starvation-survival lifestyle.

6.2.1 Biofilm
The application of confocal scanning laser microscopes, which allow the
examination of fully hydrated samples, has revealed the elaborate three-
dimensional structure of biofilms (Costerton et al. 1995; Davey and O’Toole
2000). Following adhesion to a surface, a bacterial cell undergoes a phenotypic
change that alters proteins in the cell envelope, cell membrane and cytoplasm
and derepresses exopolysaccharide synthesis. Cell growth and exopolysaccha-
ride production are related to microcolonies enclosed in slime layers and
attached to the colonized surface. Some simple cone-shaped microcolonies are
developed within forming biofilms. Other mushroom-shaped microcolonies
would be variously penetrated by channels and pores. A channelled structure
could be an obvious advantage, since it provides a means of circulating
nutrients, supplying substrates and removing products. In situ measurements of
dissolved oxygen using microelectrodes proved that oxygen is available in the
biofilm as far down as the substrata, indicating that the channels are transporting
oxygen into the biofilm. The water channels have been clearly shown to
comprise an anastomosing network, representing a primitive circulatory system
comparable to that of higher organisms. Thus, it is assumed that structural
organization is a hallmark of biofilm communities and their development that
clearly differentiates this mode of growth from planktonic growth.
   It has become widely recognized that bacteria as colonial organisms in
biofilms elaborate systems of intercellular communication to facilitate their
adaptation to changing environmental conditions (Wimpenny et al. 2000).
Numerous signalling molecule-mediated sensing and response pathways have
been recently uncovered, constituting a form of regulation commonly known as
quorum sensing. An extensive range of microorganisms is capable of perceiving
                    Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                      83

and responding to the presence of neighbouring microbial populations. The
process is related to the synthesis of low-molecular-mass signalling molecules,
the concentration of which results from the population density of the producing
organisms. The most common signalling molecules found in Gram-negative
bacteria are N-acyl derivatives of homoserine lactone, which control the
expression of various physiological functions. It has been shown that cell
density-dependent signalling plays an important role in the formation and
maintenance of biofilm structure.
    During the earliest stages of biofilm formation, sessile bacteria originate from
only one species or several species associate themselves in a stable juxtaposition
as single-species and mixed-species microcolonies are formed. It was shown
that the close spatial arrangement of different species of bacteria can be
advantageous to the community as a whole — for example, in the low rate of
degradation of the polymeric and high-molecular-weight substances. The
utilization of organic matter in the aquatic habitats depends on an interactive
community of bacterial biofilms, since there is a myriad of different organic
compounds, each requiring different enzymes. In fact, biofilms provide an ideal
environment for the establishment of syntrophic relationships in which two
metabolically distinct types of bacteria depend on each other to utilize specific
substrates, typically for energy production.
    The tendency of bacteria to grow in protected biofilms proved to be a greater
advantage as other life forms evolved. In environmental habitats, bacteria within
biofilms are notably resistant to bacteriophages, to amoeboid predators and to
free-living protozoa (Costerton et al. 1995). Thus, in their simplest planktonic
forms, environmental bacteria can reach a very wide variety of ecosystems with
truly phenomenal range. When nutrient conditions become favourable, their
phenotypic flexibility allows bacteria to form biofilm cells with specific
metabolic capabilities that allow them to form tissue-like cooperative consortia.
It is now widely admitted that the biofilm mode of growth is predominant in
aquatic ecosystems, as planktonic populations have been unequivocally shown
to constitute <0.1% of the total microbial community. Regardless of whether the
drinking-water habitat is oligotrophic surface water or groundwater, it is viewed
as part of a microbial food-chain, through the collective result of all microbial
processes (most of which involve oxidation–reduction reactions). The food-
chain in these habitats is primarily heterotrophic, reliant upon organic
compounds. Thus, the microbiological investigation of these habitats indicates
that HPC bacteria are the dominant microorganisms present.
84                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

6.2.2 Starvation-survival lifestyle
When nutrient conditions of aquatic habitats become unfavourable, both sessile
and planktonic bacterial cells are sharply reduced in size to form very small
(±0.3 µm), spherical ultramicrobacteria (also termed ultramicrocells) by a
process that is now well documented as starvation-survival (Kjelleberg 1993;
Morita 1997). As a consequence of forming ultramicrobacteria, the
surface/volume ratio becomes larger, which allows nutrients to be sequestered
more efficiently in low-nutrient environments.
   The concept of starvation-survival is fundamental to the evolutionary point of
view. In order to provide a pragmatic approach to this concept, a definition has
been provided by Morita (1997): “starvation-survival is a physiological state
resulting from an insufficient amount of nutrients, especially energy, to permit
growth (cell size increase) and/or reproduction.” To confront nutrient limitation,
bacteria may develop defence mechanisms to enhance their ability to survive
periods of starvation. Some differentiating bacteria respond to starvation by a
marked alteration in their ultrastructure, producing spores or cysts. Non-
differentiating bacteria respond more by an alteration of their physiology than
by developing resistant structural modifications. When bacteria are grown under
conditions of nutrient excess, they accumulate reserve carbon polymers, such as
polysaccharides, glycogen and poly-β-hydroxybutyric acid. The degradation of
cellular macromolecules might contribute to the endogenous metabolism that
occurs when cells no longer have an external source of energy (Morita 1997).
However, the question is debated, and in the exponential phase (nutrient excess),
only few microbes accumulate significant amounts of reserve materials (Egli
1995). Bacteria respond to specific nutrient limitation by two mechanisms: first,
they produce transport systems with increased affinities for the nutrient most
easily exploited; second, they express transport and metabolic systems for
alternative nutrients. Thus, these bacteria may be able to escape starvation by
more efficient scavenging of a preferred nutrient or by using another, relatively
more abundant, source. Studies of bacterial responses to stress have become a
major theme in the traditional field of bacterial physiology and genetics
(Nyström 1993; Jones 1997; Morita 1997). When Escherichia coli become
nutrient stressed or enter a stationary phase, a nucleotide, guanosine 3',5'-
bispyrophosphate, is induced. This is a signal for the stringent response, which
is coordinated with the shutting down of normal metabolic activities.
Transcriptional control of RNA polymerase is switched from sigma factor σ, the
product of the rpoS gene, to σs, an alternative starvation sigma factor. σs directs
the transcription of a series of overlapping networks of genes responsible for the
production of a large number of stress proteins (Cst proteins) in what is now
termed the general stress response of E. coli by Hengge-Aronis (2000).
                    Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                     85

Evidence has been accumulating for years that bacteria subjected to nutrient
starvation become more resistant to various environmental stresses. It is clear
that the stress responses discussed above, involving enhanced scavenging
capacity, are insufficient to ensure survival. It has been shown that, upon
exposure to nutrient limitation, bacteria synthesized new proteins that increased
their resistance to a number of stresses, including shifts in temperature and
oxidative and osmotic shock. This resistance failed to develop if synthesis of
starvation proteins was prevented and increased the longer the culture was
allowed to synthesize the starvation proteins (Matin 1991).
   For aquatic systems, the organic matter includes dissolved organic carbon
(DOC) and particulate organic carbon, which is much smaller than DOC. The
average DOC in surface water (e.g., in a river) is about 7 mg carbon/litre.
Groundwater systems are frequently among the most oligotrophic microbial
environments that have ever been described (mean concentration from 0.1 to 0.7
mg/litre). Chemical analysis of the organic carbon in any environmental sample
certainly does not determine what portion of the organic carbon is available for
use by the heterotrophic autochthonous bacteria. Most of the organic matter in
subsurface environments, other than the readily labile compounds such as free
amino acids, free carbohydrates and free fatty acids, is aggregated humic
polymeric material and refractory (i.e., resistant to breakdown). In the
subsurface environments, it can be supposed that the unavailable humic and
fulvic acids make up more than 50% of the total organic carbon. On the other
hand, biodegradable compounds in the laboratory may not be available in nature
due to their being complexed with humic substances.
   The utilization of organic matter in the environment depends on an
interactive community of bacteria, since there is a myriad of various organic
compounds, each requiring distinct enzymes; no one bacterium is capable of
synthesizing all these different enzymes (Morita 1997). Thus, biofilm’s
cooperative consortia that function in a relatively complex and coordinated
manner play an important part in the utilization of organic matter. In addition, in
the course of the last two decades, many experimental studies published by
different research groups provide evidence that carbon starvation or slow growth
in carbon-limited continuous culture induces the synthesis of many carbon
catabolic enzyme systems, in the absence of appropriate carbon sources. Under
these conditions, bacterial cells are able to immediately utilize these carbon
compounds if they become available in the environment (Egli 1995; Kovarova-
Kovar and Egli 1998). Thus, in addition to increased substrate affinity (see
above), the potential to utilize different carbon substrates simultaneously
(mixed-substrate growth) has to be taken into account in understanding
microbial competition in an oligotrophic environment.
86                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

6.2.3 The viable but non-culturable state
Under certain conditions of metabolic stress, such as starvation, bacterial cells
may enter into a viable but non-culturable (VBNC) state. It has been realized for
some time that plate counts can dramatically underestimate the total number of
bacteria, determined by acridine orange, present in samples taken from the
natural environment. In the late 1970s, several non-cultural methods were
developed for determining cell viability, which demonstrated that many of these
unculturable cells are indeed viable, being capable of active metabolism and
respiration (reducing iodonitrotetrazolium; INT+). A bacterium in this VBNC
state is defined by Oliver (1993) as “a cell which can be demonstrated to be
metabolically active, while being incapable of undergoing the sustained cellular
division required for growth in or on a medium normally supporting growth of
that cell.” The difference observed between viable and INT counts suggests the
existence within the starving population of a subpopulation of non-viable cells
(having INT activity) that is about 10-fold more numerous than the viable cells.
These respiring bacteria that did not have the ability to form colony-forming
units (cfu) on agar media might represent the predominant bacterial inhabitants
of subsurface habitats. Cells entering the VBNC state generally show a
reduction in size, as has been noted for cells undergoing starvation.
   The relationship between the starvation response and the VBNC response is
complex, but it has been suggested that the VBNC state may be distinct from the
starvation response for several reasons (Oliver 1993). A large number of
environmental factors other than starvation, such as temperature, pH, salinity
and osmotic pressure, may be involved in the induction of the VBNC state.
Cross-protection has not been demonstrated for bacteria entering the non-
culturable state. It is important to note that starved bacteria, after variable
periods of time, respond rapidly to nutrients, while VBNC cells cannot grow on
conventional bacterial culture plates. The existence of a VBNC state, in
response to natural environmental stress, has been observed more often than not
with Gram-negative bacteria representing members of the Enterobacteriaceae,
Vibrionaceae, including Aeromonas, and such genera as Campylobacter,
Helicobacter and Legionella. However, little is known about the VBNC state in
most representative bacteria living in aquatic habitats.


6.3 WHAT IS A PATHOGEN IN DRINKING-WATER?
More than 100 years have passed since Pasteur and Koch clearly demonstrated
the relationship between microbes and disease, stating that a pathogen is a
member of a microbial species and that virulence defines the specially harmful
propensities of strains within such a pathogenic species. Historic definitions of
                    Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                      87

pathogens were based on the strain’s ability to cause disease as an invariant trait.
It was assumed that pathogenicity and virulence were intrinsic properties of
microorganisms. The microbe-centred concept of pathogenesis reached its peak
with Koch’s postulate, which followed the dawn of the germ theory of disease,
placing the entire responsibility for pathogenesis on the microbe. More recently,
this view is supported by the fact that many genes required for virulence in
bacteria are in large DNA segments, referred to as pathogenicity islands (PAIs),
which implies that bacteria acquiring PAIs become virulent (Hacker and Kaper
2000). PAIs are present in the genomes of pathogenic organisms but absent
from the genomes of non-pathogenic organisms of the same species or of
closely related species. The finding that PAIs are often flanked by small directly
repeated sequences, often associated with transfer RNA genes, often carrying
genes encoding mobility factors and often being unstable DNA regions, argues
for the generation of PAIs by horizontal gene transfer, a process that is well
known to contribute to microbial evolution. Many members of the
Enterobacteriaceae, such as E. coli, Salmonella spp., Shigella spp. and Yersinia
spp., cause intestinal or extra-intestinal infection by virulence factors encoded
on PAIs. The most exciting example of mobilizable PAIs occurs in the strains of
Vibrio cholerae. Indeed, recent data suggest that the major pathogenic genes in
toxinogenic V. cholerae (serogroups O1 and O139) are clustered in several
chromosomic regions (CTX genetic element and TCP PAI) that are capable of
being propagated horizontally to environmental non-O1 and non-O139 strains
by lysogenic conversion (Faruque et al. 1998).
    However, since the germ theory of disease was accepted, it rapidly became
apparent that pathogenicity was neither an invariant nor a stable characteristic of
many microbes. For example, hospital-acquired infections are not the result of
established pathogens endowed with special virulence attributes. Instead, they
are caused by microorganisms widely distributed in the natural environment and
without any property signifying potential harm to patients. Nosocomial disease,
legionellosis and the infections that result from complications of HIV/AIDS
illustrate why the pathogenicity and virulence concepts are not sufficient to
explain fully the harmful interactions between the microbial world and the
human host. In opposition to the classic concept of pathogenicity and virulence,
a much broader view, first expressed by the pioneer microbiologist Theobald
Smith (1934), now leads to the prevailing opinion that the host plays an
undesirable role in the overt clinical manifestation of infection after exposure to
a specific microorganism at a given point in time (Isenberg 1988). Pathogenicity
reflects the host–parasite equilibrium, governed by very dynamic physiological
and immunological conditions. The degree of immunocompromise often has a
profound effect on the extent of infection complications. Infectious disease thus
88                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

becomes a developing series of events that requires the participation of both the
individual host and the microorganism.
   According to Casadevall and Pirofski (1999, 2000), host damage might be
the relevant outcome in host–microbe interactions: host damage is often a
requirement for the induction of a pathogen-specific immune response. Thus,
the constancy, type and magnitude of damage should form the basis of the new
lexicon of microbial pathogenesis (Figure 6.1). However, it remains appropriate
at this time, from a public health point of view, to talk about pathogens or
potential pathogens and opportunistic and saprophytic microorganisms. Interest
has turned to infections that arise with increasing frequency in “compromised
hosts”; such infections are called “opportunistic infections.” As defined by von
Graevenitz (1977), “an opportunistic microorganism is one that utilizes the
opportunity offered by weakened defense mechanisms to inflict damage to the
host.” An opportunist may cause infectious disease exclusively in compromised
hosts (infrequent outcome, e.g., Corynebacterium equi), or it may cause
infectious disease more frequently or more severely in compromised than in
normal hosts (e.g., Legionella pneumophila, Staphylococcus aureus).
Opportunists are not identical to saprophytes that live on decaying or dead
material (e.g., the majority of heterotrophic bacteria in aquatic environments)
and, as a rule, cannot compete with the normal flora of the human body.

                    Commensalism


                    Infection                                Disease

     Elimination

                    Colonization                             Persistence

Figure 6.1. Host–microbe interactions (adapted from Casadevall and Pirofski 2000).
Infection: acquisition of a microbe by host; commensalism: a state of infection that results
in either no damage or clinically inapparent damage to the host; colonization: a state of
infection that results in a continuum of damage from none to great; persistence: a state of
infection in which the host response does not eliminate the microbe, resulting in
continued damage over time; infectious disease: the clinical manifestation of damage that
results from a host–microbe interaction.

  Taking this in account, data are needed when the intent is to develop a
comprehensive list of what are considered the most important agents (or
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                    89

potential agents) of waterborne disease. A large variety of bacterial, viral and
protozoan pathogens are capable of initiating waterborne infections:

   (1) The enteric bacterial pathogens include early-recognized agents, such as
       Salmonella spp. and Shigella spp., and newly recognized pathogens
       from faecal sources, such as Campylobacter jejuni and
       enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli. The survival potential of these
       bacteria is increased in biofilms and through their stages as VBNC.
   (2) Several bacterial pathogens, such as Legionella spp., Aeromonas spp.,
       Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Mycobacterium avium, have a natural
       reservoir in the aquatic environment and soil. These organisms are
       introduced from surface water into the drinking-water system, usually in
       low numbers. They may survive and grow within distribution system
       biofilms.
   (3) More than 15 different groups of viruses, encompassing more than 140
       distinct types, can be found in the human gut. These enteric viruses are
       excreted by patients and find their way into sewage. Hepatitis A and E
       viruses cause illness (hepatitis) unrelated to gut epithelium. Another
       specific group of viruses has been incriminated as causes of acute
       gastroenteritis in humans, including rotavirus, calicivirus, Norwalk
       virus, astrovirus and some enteric adenoviruses. These viruses cannot
       grow in contaminated water and may only remain static in number or
       die off.
   (4) The most prevalent enteric protozoa associated with waterborne disease
       include Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium parvum. In addition,
       protozoa like Cyclospora, Isospora and many microsporidian species
       are emerging as opportunistic pathogens and may have waterborne
       routes of transmission. Like viruses, these protozoa cannot multiply in
       the contaminated waters.

   There are a number of reasons for the emergence of these pathogens, as
analysed in detail by Szewzyk et al. (2000), including the high resistance of
viruses and protozoa, lack of identification methods for viruses, change in water
use habits (Legionella) and subpopulations at risk. One other striking
epidemiological feature is the low number of bacteria that may trigger disease.
The infectious dose of Salmonella is in the range of 107–108 cells, while some
hundred cells only are required to cause clinical illness with Escherichia coli
O157:H7 and Campylobacter. The infectious dose of enteric viruses is low,
90                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

typically in the range of 1–10 infectious units; it is about 10–100 or fewer
oocysts for Cryptosporidium.
   It is important for some discussion to be developed on emerging pathogens to
determine if their regulation presents a meaningful opportunity for reducing
public health risks, especially with regard to putative bacterial pathogens
growing in water (Leclerc et al. 2002). Is the agent an enteric pathogen
(identification)? Is it capable of surviving or proliferating in the drinking-water
system (exposure assessment) at a concentration that causes unacceptable health
problems, such as outbreaks or a high number of sporadic cases (dose–response
assessment)?

6.3.1 Pseudomonas aeruginosa
In humans, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen or colonizer,
well known in the hospital environment; it seems likely to be the cause of 10–
20% of nosocomial infections. Its extreme resistance to antibiotics explains why
this ubiquitous bacterium has been selected to colonize the skin and mucous
membranes of patients. As some P. aeruginosa strains are capable of producing
enterotoxins, the enteropathogenicity of this species was sometimes surmised.
Many publications have recognized this bacterium as an enteric pathogen and
the causative agent of diarrhoea in infants and children (Leclerc et al. 2002).
However, each of these “infections” was diagnosed before there were adequate
means of precluding a viral or protozoan etiology. Community-acquired P.
aeruginosa gastrointestinal disease with sepsis rarely occurs in healthy infants
— i.e., those who do not have identified underlying immunological or
haematological problems (Lepow 1994). There have been no significant
outbreaks reported in recent decades, possibly as a result of better hygienic
control measures and diagnostic techniques (Lepow 1994). Moreover, a study of
Buck and Cooke in 1969 demonstrated that ingestion of up to 106 viable P.
aeruginosa did not lead to infection or colonization, but only to a very brief
period of recovery of the organism from the stool.
   P. aeruginosa is predominantly an environmental organism, and fresh surface
water is an ideal reservoir. It proliferates in water piping systems and even more
in hot water systems and spa pools. As a consequence of contemporary lifestyle,
P. aeruginosa reaches relatively high numbers in food and on moist surfaces.
Daily, substantial numbers of the species are ingested with our food, particularly
with raw vegetables, while our body surfaces also are in continuous contact with
the organism. On the other hand, this bacterium is primarily an opportunistic
pathogen.
   There is abundant evidence that specific hosts are at risk for an infection with
P. aeruginosa, including patients with deep neutropenia, cystic fibrosis and
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                     91

severe burns and those subject to foreign device installation. Therefore, there is
no evidence that the organism is a public health problem for the general
population. Hardalo and Edberg (1997) conclude that establishing a guideline
for P. aeruginosa in drinking-water would yield no public health protection
benefits. A similar conclusion was reached by WHO (1996), which does not
establish a guideline value for P. aeruginosa.

6.3.2 Aeromonas
Many experimental, clinical and epidemiological data tend to lend credence to
the assertion that Aeromonas may be etiologically involved in diarrhoeal illness
(Leclerc et al. 2002). Some authors are more cautious and consider that only
some strains are likely to be pathogenic, a situation similar to that with E. coli
and Y. enterocolitica (Farmer et al. 1992). Beyond any doubt, Aeromonas may
be isolated as often from the faeces of patients with diarrhoea as from persons
without diarrhoea, suggesting that Aeromonas would, as a rule, be a non-
pathogenic “fellow traveller.” The most striking argument against the role of
Aeromonas in human diarrhoea emerged from studies of Morgan et al. (1985)
with human volunteers. Despite the fact that high challenge doses were used,
this investigation failed to establish Aeromonas spp. as an enteropathogen.
However, the pathogenicity of aeromonads may be strain or even pathovar
related.
   Aeromonas spp. are widely associated with environmental waters. Since
1962, we have demonstrated that 30% of drinking-water samples found positive
for thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms contained strains of Aeromonas, which
would have falsely indicated that the sample was positive in the thermotolerant
(faecal) coliform test (Leclerc and Buttiaux 1962). Many teams have since
confirmed these observations. The frequent presence of Aeromonas in drinking-
water raised the question of its role as an enteric pathogen, because production
of enterotoxins and/or adhesins had been demonstrated. Some authors (Burke et
al. 1984) have observed that Aeromonas spp. associated with gastroenteritis
were correlated with the mean number of Aeromonas spp. in water samples
within the distribution system. However, the epidemiological investigation of
Havelaar et al. (1992) demonstrated conclusively that the aeromonads isolated
from the public water supply were unrelated to those isolated from patients with
gastroenteritis. With regard to the epidemiological relationship with drinking-
water, in contrast to other waterborne pathogens, no clearly defined outbreaks of
diarrhoeal illness due to Aeromonas have ever been reported, although this
bacterium is frequently isolated from water (Schubert 2000). Therefore,
although there is sufficient evidence that some isolates of Aeromonas found in
92                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

drinking-water have virulence factors related to gastroenteritis, there is not
epidemiological evidence, and it appears inappropriate at this time to consider
that this organism poses a health risk through the consumption of drinking-
water. Further information on Aeromonas may be found in WHO (2002).

6.3.3 Legionella
The genus Legionella has at least 42 named species, among which L.
pneumophila is the one most frequently related to human disease. People most
often become infected after inhaling aerosols of contaminated water droplets.
Aspiration following ingestion has also been incriminated in some cases as the
route of infection. There has been no proven person-to-person transmission.
   Legionella is a common inhabitant, usually in low numbers, of natural
aquatic habitats and of water supplies that meet drinking-water standards. A
number of abiotic factors, of which temperature is the most important,
significantly influence Legionella’s survival and growth. Therefore, hot water
tanks and cooling systems and towers, because of their heat-exchanging
function, serve as bacterial “amplifiers” (Atlas 1999). Evidence has also been
presented indicating that amoebae and other protozoa may be natural hosts and
“amplifiers” for Legionella in the environment (Swanson and Hammer 2000).
Growth within protozoa enhances the environmental survival capability and the
pathogenicity (virulence) of Legionella. Other factors, including the growth
requirements of Legionella, their ability to enter a VBNC state and their
occurrence within biofilms, also play a major role in their survival and
proliferation (Atlas 1999).
   L. pneumophila is a respiratory pathogen, and most outbreaks have been
traced to aerosols contaminated from cooling towers, evaporative condensers or
hot water components. However, it appears that it is not possible to prevent the
contamination of water supply systems and reservoirs with Legionella during
extended periods of time by thermal eradication or hyperchlorination (Fliermans
1996). The risk of infection following exposure to Legionella remains open to
speculation. Therefore, risk management strategies should be introduced to
control Legionella at locations where a health risk is recognized — i.e., in
domestic hot water, public spas, swimming pools and hot whirlpools. The risk
of legionellosis is a real public health problem related to drinking-water
systems, but particularly to potable hot water services that can amplify and
disseminate aerosols of Legionella bacteria. The risk should especially be
anticipated in hospital settings for high-risk persons such as neutropenic and
transplant patients.
   Additional information on Legionella and the prevention of legionellosis may
be found in a forthcoming WHO publication (WHO, in revision).
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                    93

6.3.4 Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC)
In a benchmark review (Wolinsky 1979), evidence was summarized that some
non-tuberculosis mycobacteria were able to cause disease. The most common
among these include the Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), comprising M.
avium and M. intracellulare, two clearly different species. The concern about
non-tuberculous mycobacterial disease has been radically changed by the
emergence of HIV/AIDS throughout the world. Before HIV/AIDS, and still
today in immunocompetent people, non-tuberculous mycobacterial disease was
primarily pulmonary, and the major pathogens were M. kansasii, M. avium and
M. intracellulare. In HIV/AIDS patients and other immunodeficient individuals,
non-tuberculous mycobacterial disease is usually systemic, with acid-fast
organisms being isolated more commonly from either blood or stool and caused
principally by M. avium. Therefore, infections possibly occur via the lungs or
gastrointestinal tract. An increase in the immunodeficient population and the
prevalence of non-tuberculous mycobacteria in water systems contribute to an
emerging problem of waterborne mycobacterial infections.
   Von Reyn et al. (1994) were among the first to document a relation between
infections in HIV/AIDS patients and water as a source of MAC, examination of
isolates from patients and from waters by pulsed field gel electrophoresis
showing identical patterns. Further studies from Ristola et al. (1999) also
support the possibility that drinking-water is a source of the nosocomial spread
of M. avium infections in HIV/AIDS patients. Recirculating hot water systems
are used in many institutions, such as hospitals, hotels and apartment and office
buildings, and may allow thermotrophic and chlorine-resistant mycobacteria to
persist and colonize, once they have been introduced from municipal systems.
Infection with MAC is thought to occur from colonization of the gastrointestinal
tract, although respiratory access has also been documented. Therefore, hot
water showers may be the source of infection; however, since hot and cold water
may be delivered by a common tap, it cannot be excluded that drinking-water
acts as a possible source. Although there have been reports of the presence of
MAC organisms in drinking-water, the problem of waterborne disease MAC
should be, at this time, limited to infections in HIV/AIDS patients. [Editors’
note: Because of the wide interest in the potential public health significance of
some non-tuberculous mycobacteria in water, including MAC, this is the theme
of a separate book in the same series as this volume.]
94                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

6.3.5 Helicobacter pylori
The assumption that Helicobacter pylori is waterborne needs to be
substantiated. Half of the world’s population is infected with H. pylori, making
it a pathogen of potentially great significance. Although infection is harmless in
the majority of cases, many infected people develop chronic gastritis, peptic
ulcer disease or gastric cancer (Ernst and Gold 2000). Many studies have
examined the possibility that H. pylori is waterborne (Engstrand 2001; Leclerc
et al. 2002). H. pylori-specific DNA was detected in water supplies, even
though the organisms should be readily inactivated by free chlorine. Actively
respiring bacteria were found by monoclonal antibody in the majority of surface
water and shallow groundwater samples tested in the USA. The survival
capacity of H. pylori is related to the non-cultivatable coccoid form, which may
persist up to 20–30 days in water (Hegarty et al. 1999).
    Studies of prevalence or seroprevalence suggested that drinking-water might
play some role in infection with H. pylori (McKeown et al. 1999). More and
more data show that H. pylori DNA can be detected by polymerase chain
reaction from faecal samples of infected individuals or patients with peptic
ulcer, which strongly suggests faecal–oral transmission. However, many
characteristics make H. pylori a special bacterium in the world of human
pathogens, and a long way remains for the epidemiology of transmission and the
environmental occurrence of this pathogen to be better defined.


6.4 HETEROTROPHIC BACTERIA IN DISTRIBUTION
    SYSTEMS AND PATHOGENS
The examination of a drinking-water distribution system reveals the complexity
and the heterogeneity of such a technical system. The fate of autochthonous
microbial populations and contaminant pathogens is related to this complex
system generating a variety of situations where microbial activity may develop.

6.4.1 Spatial and temporal heterogeneity in the pipe network
The public distribution system is an enormous heterogeneous reactor in which
the different zones behave almost independently, especially regarding the
density and diversity of bacterial populations (Block 1992). Heterogeneity is the
very nature of a distribution system, which is a network of mains, fire hydrants,
valves, auxiliary pumping or booster chlorination substations, storage reservoirs,
standpipes and service lines. Various materials, from bored logs, lead, ductile
iron and copper to plastic materials, have been used for water supply pipes over
the centuries. Performance of coatings, sealants, gaskets and other materials in
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                     95

the pipe networks must also be considered as possible sites for microbial
colonization. Added to these complications are the plumbing systems in some
public buildings such as hospitals, introducing many dead ends and a variety of
attachment devices for special water supply application.
   The optimum situation would be to use treated water within 24 h of
production. Unfortunately, the water residence time in the network would
appear to range on average from 2 to 30 days with large populations, leading to
a drastic evolution in the water quality. While groundwater temperatures are
relatively uniform throughout the year, surface waters used for raw source
waters will introduce seasonal changes in the treated water, with temperatures
that may range from 3 to 25 °C and sometimes more in warm countries. When
water temperatures rise above 15 °C, increased growth begins for most
heterotrophic bacteria, colonizing the pipe environment.

6.4.2 Biological heterogeneity and instability
Trace concentrations of nutrients are a major factor in the colonization of
heterotrophic bacteria in the distribution system. Surface waters, in particular,
contain an innumerable variety of organics from municipal or industrial
wastewater effluents, stormwater runoff, agricultural activities and natural
vegetation, producing humic substances. Thus, it is not surprising to find total
organic carbon concentrations ranging from 1 to 10 mg/litre at the water supply
intake (in most cases, biodegradable DOC less than 2 mg/litre). Strategies
developed for creating good microbial quality in drinking-water tend to involve
both chlorination and a treatment train involving filtration, resulting in part in
the removal of organic matter.
   Through the combined occurrence of biodegradable organic carbon and
electron acceptors such as dissolved oxygen or nitrates, a large number of
microorganisms are capable of multiplying and attaching to the surface of pipe
of distribution systems, creating a biofilm similar to the one described above
(see section 6.2.1). However, the biofilm developed in a water network is
constantly being broken down and reconstituted, the characteristics of this
biofilm thus being controlled by a myriad of factors, largely described by Block
(1992), including transport of chemical species in biofilms. The biofilm should
be regarded as an evolutionary system where deposition, attachment, growth,
mortality and detachment of bacteria are strongly interconnected. Therefore, it is
possible to distinguish different types of bacterial populations in drinking-water
distribution systems, comprising attached bacteria supporting biofilms or
forming aggregates (often called “particles” in reference to their occurrence in
the bulk phase) and non-attached bacteria in the free or planktonic form.
96                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

According to Morin et al. (1997), the maximum bacterial densities of biofilm
bacteria could range from 105 to 108 cells/cm2, whereas suspended bacteria,
including aggregates and planktonic forms, may be present in concentrations
ranging from 104 to 106 cells/ml. The public distribution system shows a high
degree of spatial and temporal heterogeneity, with zones of highest bacterial
number attributed to lower levels of chlorine residuals and prolonged retention
time of the water in the network and with notable changes in the distribution of
types of bacteria in the system (Maul et al. 1985a,b).
   In water distribution systems, three groups of living organisms can be
normally found in biofilms and circulating water. They are heterotrophic
bacteria; free-living protozoa, such as amoebae, ciliates and flagellates; and
macroinvertebrates, such as rotifers, nematodes and microcrustaceans (Block et
al. 1997). These organisms constitute a complex trophic chain in which the
bacteria can be the starting point leading to the proliferation of undesirable
higher organisms. The activity of free-living protozoa, consuming bacteria and
especially amoebae of common genera Acanthamoeba, Hartmanella and
Naegleria, can remove a large part of the microbial biomass produced in the
systems. Associated in greatest abundance with bacteria, yeast and microscopic
fungi may be present in concentrations as high as 104/litre.
   Distributed drinking-water is generally low in organic carbon, thus making it
an oligotrophic environment where only specially adapted or competitive
bacteria are considered to be able to grow. Some appendaged or stalked bacteria,
such as Caulobacter, Gallionella, Hyphomicrobium and Pedomicrobium, can
indeed be observed. However, they are largely dominated in number by aerobic
Gram-negative bacteria belonging to Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter and related
genera. In some sites, pigmented bacterial members of the Cytophaga–
Flavobacterium phylum appear to be a major component of the microbial
community. Many other bacterial species have been isolated in drinking-water
systems, generally in lower numbers. There are members of the genera Bacillus
and Clostridium, the common Gram-positive cocci, including the genera
Micrococcus, Staphylococcus and Streptococcus, and the environmental or
ubiquitous coliforms (Leclerc et al. 2001), among which the members of the
genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter and Citrobacter are the most successful
colonizers in distribution networks. The well known problem, greatly
emphasized by Szewzyk et al. (2000), is that the percentage of culturable cells
in these bacterial communities is always very low, only representing <0.1% of
the number of total cells determined by acridine orange direct count. Therefore,
the inferred question arose: “Are the 99.9% of total cell numbers that are not
detectable by plate counts equivalent to the VBNC of known bacteria, or do they
represent other, so-far-unknown, bacteria that are present in high numbers in
drinking water?” The application of molecular tools, especially in situ
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                    97

hybridization with oligonucleotide probes, was a starting point to make a
quantitative description of microbial community structures. The findings
achieved in this field by Kalmbach et al. (2000) and Szewzyk et al. (2000) were
quite unexpected. They revealed in fact that the β-Proteobacteria are largely
predominant in both chlorinated and unchlorinated drinking-water systems,
representing about 80% of the total cell number. Many new species have been
described within the new genus Aquabacterium. A. commune was a dominant
community member in all of the analysed biofilm samples. The organisms that
have usually been isolated by culture methods (e.g., Pseudomonas,
Acinetobacter and Bacillus spp.) were demonstrated by use of oligonucleotide
probes to occur only in low numbers in the biofilm and to be of no major
relevance for the biofilm ecosystem. Thus, the bacteria not culturable in plate
counts might be, in part, “uncultivated” bacteria on the culture medium used.

6.4.3 Diversity of bacterial stresses
During nutrient starvation (see section 6.2.2), drinking-water bacteria have
evolved a sophisticated programme of physiological and morphological changes
comparable with those arising in the stationary phase of the growth cycle. The
modified cells at this time have some of the characteristics of the endospores of
some Gram-positive bacteria (Jones 1997). Starvation stress induces the
stringent response, which is controlled by the σs regulation system. Many other
detrimental conditions, such as shifts in temperature, acid and oxidative stress
(including chlorination), are experienced by the bacteria throughout water
treatment and distribution. The question of oxidative stress following
chlorination has been dealt with in recent reviews by Saby et al. (1999) and
Stortz and Zheng (2000). It has been shown many times that a bacterial
ecosystem can develop and persist in the distribution system in spite of the
application of disinfectants. Exposure to one stress will often convey resistance
to another. Oxidative stress causes resistance to heat shock and damage to DNA;
starvation causes resistance to heat, oxidative and osmotic shocks. This can be
explained by overlap at the regulatory level — for example, the heat-shock
proteins (DnaK, GroEl, HtpG, regulated by σs) are induced by another stress,
such as peroxide, superoxide, heat shock or starvation (Jones 1997).

6.4.4 Interactions between heterotrophic bacteria and
      pathogens
Different classes of pathogens have been distinguished in drinking-water
systems (section 6.3). The enteric viruses are unable to multiply outside the
98                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

human body but are able to survive in water in an infectious state for humans,
several enteric viruses being relatively chlorine resistant. Like viruses, the
protozoan parasites Cryptosporidium and Giardia under form of cysts or
oocysts are unable to multiply in water, and they are very resistant to chlorine.
For those pathogenic agents that can arise and persist in drinking-water systems,
the problem is their dispersion in the water supply. Gale (1996) concluded that
the available evidence suggests that pathogens are not randomly dispersed but
clustered to some degree. Drinking-water treatment, while diminishing pathogen
densities by several log orders, may also promote further clustering.
Breakthrough of floc particles is likely to release pathogens as concentrated
clusters into the supply, exposing some drinking-water consumers to much
higher doses than others.
   On the other hand, there are recognized enteric bacterial pathogens and some
environmental bacteria growing in drinking-water systems that are only recently
recognized as possible relevant pathogens.

6.4.4.1 E. coli as a model of enteric bacteria
Coliform bacteria, thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms and E. coli have, for almost
a century, been used as indicators of the bacterial safety of drinking-water
(Leclerc et al. 2001). However, their use in isolation to predict the viral and
protozoal safety of drinking-water has been questioned since the 1970s. The
failure of these indicators in isolation has been demonstrated by recent
outbreaks of waterborne cryptosporidiosis. As pattern indicator of bacterial
enteric pathogens, it appears essential to assess the behaviour of these organisms
in the freshwater environment and particularly in water distribution system
biofilms.
    Most health scientists tend to believe that all strains of E. coli are incapable
of significant growth in the environment. For instance, Mancini (1978) reviewed
the results of more than 40 field and laboratory survival experiments and did not
report cases of coliform growth. In one extensive review on E. coli, Edberg et
al. (2000) discussed various variables that affect its life span in both natural and
laboratory conditions, which could range between 4 and 12 weeks in water
containing a moderate microflora at a temperature of 15–18 °C. Survival or
growth is determined especially by the nutrients present, temperature and
chlorination. When most conditions conducive to their growth have been met, E.
coli can multiply in experimental studies or in the natural aquatic environment.
This question was clarified substantially by Hendricks (1972) in a study in
which water from the North Oconee River, Georgia, USA, was used as a
nutrient source for selected pathogenic and non-pathogenic enteric bacteria. At a
defined dilution rate of river water in a chemostat, various strains, including E.
coli, Salmonella and Shigella spp., grew. The generation times ranged between
                     Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                         99

3.33 and 90.0 h at 30 °C. At temperatures below 30 °C, generation times for all
organisms tested increased, and die-off occurred in most cases at 5 °C.
   E. coli are not particularly fastidious in their growth requirements; therefore,
presumably the potential exists, as it does with other coliforms, for regrowth in
nutrient-rich waters. This potential was recorded in the wastewater body of a
pulp and cardboard mill, leading to the isolation of a large population of E. coli
well adapted to this ecological niche (Niemi et al. 1987). Another example of a
bloom of E. coli in a raw water reservoir has been described in Ashbolt et al.
(1997).
   Numerous studies (LeChevallier 1990; Geldreich 1996; Morin et al. 1997;
van der Kooij 1997) have documented that coliforms other than E. coli
frequently colonize water mains and storage tanks, growing in biofilms when
conditions are favourable — i.e., nutrients, water temperature, low disinfection
concentrations, long residence times, etc. For E. coli, the question is largely
debated. There has been some work on the fate of this microorganism artificially
introduced into laboratory experimental systems (Camper et al. 1991; Szewzyk
et al. 1994) or pilot pipe systems (Fass et al. 1996; McMath and Holt 2000)
under conditions to simulate the conditions at the far reaches of a distribution
system. In the studies of Fass et al. (1996), both E. coli strains separately
injected were able to grow at 20 °C in the absence of residual chlorine in a
distribution network system largely colonized with an autochthonous
population. However, colonization of the network by E. coli was only partial
and transient. This is in contrast to the results of the studies of McMath and Holt
(2000), carried out on a large-scale pilot distribution system (1.3 km), which
showed that E. coli can survive for several days in a dead-end section of the
distribution system, but does not multiply within a biofilm. However, most of
these studies are small scale, and, while valuable for increasing the
understanding of the factors governing the growth of coliform bacteria, they
cannot create all the conditions found in distribution systems or simulate the
various factors of natural contamination. Therefore, it is assumed that there is no
convincing published evidence that E. coli can grow within drinking-water
systems.

6.4.4.2 Pathogens growing in water
It has been discussed earlier (section 6.3.3) that among environmental
pathogens, Legionella pneumophila was the major problem. Legionella’s
ubiquity in aquatic natural habitats is related to its ability to survive in nature. Its
survival is exhanced by a variety of parameters, including, but not limited to,
warm temperatures, specific algal and protozoal associations and symbiotic
associations with certain aquatic plants (Fliermans 1996). A Legionella–
100                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

amoebae relationship may be a cardinal factor in the ecology of Legionella and
the epidemiology of legionellosis (Atlas 1999; Swanson and Hammer 2000).
Many investigators now believe that protozoa are the natural host of Legionella
in the environment and that humans are accidental secondary hosts. The
development of Legionella in the distribution system is most likely to occur in
biofilm locations where symbiotic relationships with other heterotrophic
bacteria can produce the critical nutritive requirements necessary for the long-
term persistence of this pathogen. Densities of Legionella may be only a few
cells per litre in water supplies, which do not pose a direct health threat. On the
other hand, there are opportunities for amplification (e.g., hot water tanks,
shower heads, cooling towers, evaporative coolers) that increase the number of
Legionella up to 1000 or 10 000/litre, levels that create a high risk. However,
the growth of Legionella spp. in biofilms is random and appears not to be
related to heterotrophic bacterial populations in biofilm. It is the same for the
relevant pathogens growing in water, P. aeruginosa and Aeromonas. Members
of MAC and other mycobacteria have frequently been recovered from natural
waters and drinking-waters (Leclerc et al. 2002). In the course of systematic
studies of distribution systems over long periods of time, Falkinham et al.
(2001) have shown that mycobacteria can grow, but there were no statistically
significant associations between biofilm colony counts for any of the
mycobacterial groups and distribution system characteristics.
   Heterotrophic growth in water supply systems may include development of
populations of amoebae. Acanthamoeba are of known concern to contact lens
wearers, but drinking-water is not considered a major route of contamination
and is not considered suitable for contact lens washing. Naegleria fowleri and
others that are known opportunistic pathogens may proliferate, but no evidence
supports their acquisition through normal domestic drinking-water use. Some
amoebae are known to accumulate Legionella and mycobacteria and thereby act
as a bolus for infection and increase their infectivity. It is unclear whether
actions to control growth would influence exposure, and other measures to
control Legionella are well established.


6.5 HETEROTROPHIC BACTERIA IN NATURAL
    MINERAL WATER AND PATHOGENS
Natural mineral water is a typical example of non-vulnerable groundwater —
i.e., not under the direct influence of surface water. In contrast with treated
drinking-water, natural mineral waters cannot be subjected to any type of
disinfection that modifies or eliminates their biological components, and they
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                 101

always contain the HPC bacteria that are primarily a natural component of these
waters.
   The approval process for a new natural mineral water is essential. In most
cases, it requires only a few years of evidence of stability in physical and
chemical characteristics and microbial wholesomeness. Once established,
however, the consistency must be demonstrated on a continuing basis. As a
minimum, this requires a regular analysis against a scheduled list within the
Council Directive of the European Union (1980). The Codex Alimentarius
Commission (1994) also develops standards for natural mineral waters. Criteria
for microbiological analysis at source must include demonstration of the
absence of parasites and pathogenic microorganisms, quantitative determination
of the revivable colony count indicative of faecal contamination and
determination of the revivable total colony count (HPC) per millilitre of water.

6.5.1 Bottle habitat
Microbiological analysis of natural mineral water at source has always revealed
the presence of some bacteria that are capable of growth and can form colonies
on appropriate culture media. After bottling, the number of viable counts
increases rapidly, attaining 104–105 cfu/ml within 3–7 days (Leclerc and Da
Costa 1998). During the following weeks, the bacterial counts decrease slowly
or remain fairly constant; at the end of two years of storage, colony counts are
still about 103 cfu/ml. These heterotrophic bacteria are also psychrotrophic,
because they can grow at temperatures as low as 5 °C, and their maximum
growth temperature is about 35 °C. Furthermore, they do not have growth factor
requirements such as vitamins, amino acids or nucleotides and are, therefore,
prototrophic, in contrast to auxotrophic bacteria, which require many of these
growth factors. The rapid multiplication of heterotrophic bacteria in flasks
containing natural mineral water has been documented by many investigators, as
described in our review (Leclerc and Da Costa 1998). However, a possible
explanation of growth is a debatable point.

6.5.1.1 The bottle effect
Placing samples into containers terminates the exchange of cells, nutrients and
metabolites with the in situ surrounding environment. Compressed air is used at
virtually all stages of the water bottling process. The microbial quality of the
process air must be of a very high standard. On the other hand, the complexed
organic matter present in low concentration can be dramatically modified
through bottling, under the influence of increasing temperature and oxygenation.
Zobell and Anderson (1936) described the bottle effect (originally named the
102                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

volume effect), observing that both the number of bacteria and their metabolic
activity were proportional to the surface area to volume ratio of the flask in
which the seawater was stored. The explanation for this observation is that
nutrients present in low concentrations are adsorbed and concentrated onto the
surface and, thus, can be more available to the bacteria. This same increase in
bacteria numbers occurs when underground or surface waters are placed in a
container.

6.5.1.2 Attached versus unattached bacteria
Since a volume effect has been reported, the major portion of the microbial
activity should lie with the attached bacteria. To date, little experimental
evidence has been presented to demonstrate an attachment of bacteria on the
inner surfaces of bottles of mineral water. Low levels of adhesion have been
shown by Jones et al. (1999). Viable counts on the surfaces (polyethylene
terephthalate [PET] bottles and high-density polyethylene caps) ranged from 11
cfu/cm2 to 632 cfu/cm2, representing only 0.03–1.79% of the total viable counts
in the 1.5-litre bottles, depending on the brand examined. In the studies of
Jayasekara et al. (1999), the maximum population of attached bacteria,
recovered after rinsing bottles, ranged between 106 and 107 cfu/bottle, giving a
cell density of 103–104 cfu/cm2. Scanning electron micrographs of the inner
walls of the bottles did not show a confluent film of biomass over the surface,
but rather isolated sections of microbial attachments, with a distribution up to
107 cells/cm2.

6.5.1.3 Growth or resuscitation
It remains unclear whether the ultimate large population of culturable bacteria in
mineral water is due to resuscitation of a large number of non-culturable
dormant (VBNC) cells present in the water source or in the bottling system or is
the result of cell division and growth of a few culturable cells initially present
(Oger et al. 1987; Ferreira et al. 1993). Whereas the non-culturable state may, in
some manner, protect the cell against one or more environmental stresses,
resuscitation of the cell would allow it to compete actively in the environment.
However, according to Bogosian et al. (1998), recovery of culturable cells from
a population of non-culturable cells, via the process of resuscitation, can be
confounded by the presence of low levels of culturable cells, which can grow in
response to the addition of nutrients and give the illusion of resuscitation.
    Compared with cultivation-based methods, nucleic acid probes currently
allow the taxonomically most precise and quantitative description of microbial
community structures. Over the last decade, ribosomal RNA (rRNA)-targeted
probes have become a handy tool for microbial ecologists (Amann and Ludwig
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                  103

2000). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with rRNA-targeted probes
leads to the detection and identification of bacteria even at a single cell level
without prior cultivation and purification. The development of a bacterial
community in PET bottled uncarbonated water samples was monitored during
nine days after bottling, using the FISH method and DNA staining with 4',6-
diamidino-2-phenylindole (W. Beisker, personal communication, 2002). As
measured by acridine orange direct count, the number of bacterial cells
increased from 1000/ml to 8 × 104/ml within seven days after PET bottling,
similar to the other studies (Leclerc and Da Costa 1998). As only 5% of total
counts were detected the first day by the eubacterial probe, the number of
physiologically active bacteria (viable and culturable) can be assumed to be
significant, while the plate count of still mineral waters is generally a few
colony-forming units per millilitre (about 1–5 cfu/ml). This portion increases
slowly up to day 5, then rapidly between days 5 and 7. It appears that the
increase of total count might be due essentially to growing physiologically
active bacteria that have been detected by the eubacterial probe. These results
suggest that the apparent resuscitation was merely due to the growth of the
culturable cells from day 1. The appearance of biphasic growth or a double
growth cycle (diauxie) is typical of media that contain mixtures of substances.
The first substrate will induce the synthesis of those enzymes required for its
utilization and at the same time will repress the synthesis of enzymes required
for the second substrate. These latter enzymes are produced only when all of the
first substrate has been metabolized (Leclerc and Moreau 2002). However, as
was seen above, many studies have provided evidence that microorganisms
faced with mixtures of compounds do not restrict themselves to the assimilation
of a single carbon source but utilize different carbon substrates simultaneously
(Kovarova-Kovar and Egli 1988).

6.5.2 Microbial community
Community structure is generally considered to be related to the types of
organisms present in an environment and to their relative proportions. For
natural mineral waters, all the data have been obtained, thus far, by culture
methods. Bacteria belonging to the alpha, beta and gamma subclasses of the
Proteobacteria and members of the genera Cytophaga–Flavobacterium–
Bacteroides are the most common bacteria isolated from bottled mineral water.

6.5.2.1 Gram-negative bacteria
The organisms most widely isolated from mineral water belong to
Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter and Alcaligenes genera. Represented major groups
104                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

are shown in Table 6.1. By far the most important members of the mineral water
cultivatable flora are fluorescent and non-fluorescent pseudomonad species. The
genus Pseudomonas, now restricted to rRNA group, according to Palleroni
(1984), encompasses some genuine Pseudomonas species that display a
genomic and phenotypic relationship to the type species Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. However, it is important to note that P. aeruginosa (producing both
pyocyanin and fluorescent pigment) is not a normal component of the microbial
flora of natural mineral waters, whereas fluorescent pseudomonads (producing
only fluorescent pigment) are typical soil and subsurface environments.

Table 6.1. Major groups of bacteria isolated from natural mineral waters

                                          Schwaller
                                             and                      Manaia
                                          Schmidt-                     et al. Vachée
                                           Lorenz      Bischofberger (1990)    et al.
Classification                             (1980)*     et al. (1990)*    *    (1997)*
Proteobacteria γ-subclass
      Pseudomonas fluorescent spp.            ++           ++              ++   ++
      Pseudomonas non-fluorescent             ++            +              ++    +
      spp.
      Acinetobacter                           ++            +              +    +
      Stenotrophomonas maltophilia             –            +              +    +
Proteobacteria β-subclass
      Alcaligenes                              +            +              ++   +
      Comamonas acidovorans                    +            –              ++   +
      Comamonas testosteroni                   +            +               –   +
      Acidovorax delafieldii                   +            +               –   –
      Paucimonas lemoignii                     –           ++               –   –
Proteobacteria α-subclass
      Brevundimonas diminuta                   –            –               –   +
      Brevundimonas vesicularis                –            –               –   +
Cytophaga – Flavobacterium                    ++           ++              ++   +
Arthrobacter, Corynebacterium                  +           ++               –   +
* +, less than 10% of isolates; ++, between 10% and 50% of isolates.

   In the studies of Guillot and Leclerc (1993) and Vachée et al. (1997),
including 1350 strains of representative bacteria from mineral waters, the
unidentified isolates reached about 80%. Many unclassified genomic groups
were found to represent the following new species of the genus Pseudomonas
(Leclerc and Moreau 2002): P. veronii, P. rhodesiae, P. jensenii, P. mandelii, P.
gessardii, P. migulae, P. brenneri and P. grimontii. Three new species, P.
libanensis, P. cedrella and P. orientalis, were also isolated from Lebanese
                   Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                  105

springs. Thus, microflora of mineral waters should be highly composed of
fluorescent pseudomonads. One reason why pseudomonads are common in
groundwaters is that they are extraordinarily versatile in the kinds of organic
substrates on which they can grow. In addition, they do not require specific
vitamins or amino acids and readily live on a number of different carbon
sources.
   The strains of the genera Acinetobacter and Alcaligenes were isolated in all
studies in numbers that sometimes rivalled those of the genus Pseudomonas
(Table 6.1). In decreasing order of importance, species of Comamonas,
Burkholderia, Ralstonia and Stenotrophomonas were also isolated, followed by
species of Sphingomonas, Acidovorax, Brevundimonas and Paucimonas.
   It is not uncommon to observe yellow, orange or brick-red coloured colonies
on agar plated with mineral water samples. Many of the strains produce
flexirubin-type pigments in addition to carotenoids. These bacteria generally
belong to the genera Cytophaga, Flavobacterium and Flexibacter, which are
regularly isolated from most natural mineral waters, sometimes even as
dominant populations. The occurrence of prosthecate bacteria, like Caulobacter,
has rarely been reported in natural mineral waters, but these bacteria have not
usually been sought because of their special medium requirements (Leclerc and
Da Costa 1998).

6.5.2.2 Gram-positive bacteria
Gram-positive bacteria occurring in natural mineral waters have been sometimes
reported to belong to “arthrobacter-like” or “coryneform-like” bacteria and more
rarely to Bacillus, Staphylococcus and Micrococcus. The distribution of Gram-
positive bacteria is a critical issue in groundwater systems. Transmission
electron microscopy showed, in fact, that about two-thirds of the bacterial cells
from subsurface environments had Gram-positive cell walls, whereas isolation
of microorganisms on culture medium revealed a preponderance of Gram-
negative cells (Chapelle 1993). In addition to direct microscopic observation,
biochemical techniques can also give an indication of the relative abundance of
Gram-positive and Gram-negative microorganisms in samples.
   The ability to form endospores when growing cells are subjected to
nutritional deficiency or excessive heat or dryness is characteristic of some
Gram-positive bacteria such as Bacillus and Clostridium. Endospores could be
particularly well adapted to environments subjected to wide variations in water
and low-nutrient conditions such as subsurface environments, but, with some
exceptions, species of Bacillus and Clostridium have not been reported widely
from aquifer systems (Chapelle 1993). These observations indicate that spore
106                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

formation per se might not be a major feature for bacteria inhabiting
groundwater habitats.

6.5.2.3 Identified bacteria by rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide
        probes
In the studies of W. Beisker (personal communication) mentioned above
(section 6.5.1.3), Proteobacteria dominate the bacterial population in bottled
mineral water. True pseudomonads like P. fluorescens, which were the most
abundant bacteria isolated on culture medium, represent a small portion of total
bacteria. In contrast, β-Proteobacteria were found to grow very quickly, as they
were always the most abundant group of detected bacteria.

6.5.2.4 Bacterial microdiversity
With the rise of molecular genetic tools in microbial ecology, it became obvious
that we know only a very small part of the diversity in the microbial world.
Mineral water ecosystems, including those in aquifers, exhibit a high degree of
phenotypic and genetic microbial diversity that cannot always be supported by
species identification (microdiversity). Phenotypic characteristics that rely on
physiological activities have been shown to be less important for estimating
bacterial diversity than genetic characteristics, because many metabolic traits
may be induced or repressed by different environmental conditions. Restriction
fragment length polymorphism patterns of rDNA regions (ribotyping),
therefore, constitute a more reliable method for assessing genetic diversity
within autochthonous bacterial associations of mineral water. In the course of
several studies in our laboratory (Guillot and Leclerc 1993; Vachée et al. 1997),
a wide microdiversity within strains isolated was demonstrated by the Simpson
index.
   Genetic variation is a prerequisite for microdiversity and biological
evolution. The basic genetic sources and environmental factors contributing to
the generation of mutants have recently been reviewed (Schloter et al. 2000).
Point mutations, chromosomal rearrangements in bacterial species and
horizontal gene transfer can give rise to diversification and may lead to
phenotypes with different abilities to occupy ecological niches.

6.5.3 Fate of pathogens in natural mineral water
Natural mineral water is not subjected to antibacterial treatments of any kind,
and, after bottling, it is often stored for several months before it is distributed
and sold. To assess public health risks, it is, therefore, important to know the
survival capacity of pathogens and indicator bacteria (see review of Leclerc and
Da Costa 1998). Changes in bacterial density in fresh water may be expressed as
                    Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                     107

loss of viability or alteration in culturability, persistence or aftergrowth. Under
certain conditions of metabolic stress, such as starvation, bacterial cells may
enter into a VBNC state.
    The available data on the survival of bacteria in surface waters cannot be
extrapolated completely to bottled mineral waters. It is important, for example,
to take into account some specific factors, such as the impact of drilling, bottling
stress, the selective attachment of some populations to solid surfaces, the fate of
autochthonous populations, which can reach very high numbers a few days after
bottling, the effect of an enclosed environment (bottle effect) and the influence
of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), PET or glass used for bottles.

6.5.3.1 Enteric bacteria
Ducluzeau et al. (1976a) was the first to study the survival of enterobacteria in
mineral water to assess the influence of autochthonous bacteria on indicator
bacteria. In the most significant experiment, Escherichia coli was inoculated
into sterile water at a concentration of 1.2 × 105 cfu/ml. The plate counts of E.
coli were reduced by less than one log over a three-month period, and more than
102 cfu/ml were still detected five months later. On the other hand, when this
experiment was repeated with mineral water — i.e., in the presence of the
autochthonous mineral flora — the complete loss of viability of E. coli took
place between 35 and 55 days, depending on the experiment (Figure 6.2).
Various other more recent studies reported by us (Leclerc and Da Costa 1998)
have been performed irrespective of the influence of autochthonous flora.
Concerns arise with all these studies, based on the use of laboratory
experiments, adapted strains, methods for preparation of test cells, inoculum
levels, storage conditions and temperature, type of container, etc. Finally, it is
difficult to see how investigations that treat the effects of mineral water bacterial
communities on the fate of enteric bacterial pathogens can lead to developing
basic principles of cell survival. These studies indicate that enteric bacteria of
major importance, such as Salmonella spp. and E. coli O157:H7, are hardy
pathogens that can survive for a long period of time in mineral water but are not
highly competitive microorganisms in mineral water ecosystems. The pathogens
survive better in sterile mineral water than in natural mineral water,
demonstrating clearly the antagonistic power of the indigenous bacterial flora.

6.5.3.2 Pathogenic bacteria growing in water
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most significant example of bacteria capable of
multiplying in water, in contrast to most enterobacteria. This bacterium is
frequently isolated from surface water and is also a major concern in mineral
108                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

water bottling plants, because it is an opportunistic pathogen and can
contaminate boreholes and bottling plants. The studies of Gonzalez et al. (1987)
and Moreira et al. (1994) showed a significant inhibitory effect of the
autochthonous flora of mineral water on P. aeruginosa.




Figure 6.2. Antagonistic effect of the microbial flora of a mineral water on Escherichia
coli. Filtered water that had contained the autochthonous flora for one week (•); non-
filtered water containing the autochthonous flora (∆); filtered water that had contained
the autochthonous flora for 50 days (o). These observations indicate that it takes several
weeks before antagonistic substances accumulate in the water in toxic levels sufficient to
inhibit the recovery of the target organism. Redrawn from Ducluzeau et al. (1976a).

   The effect of the utilization of laboratory-adapted allochthonous pathogens or
indicators, the effect of the size of the inoculum, the biological state of the
inoculum and the physicochemical composition of water are among the
concerns about the validity of these studies. Therefore, the antagonistic power of
the autochthonous flora on P. aeruginosa was examined in three types of natural
mineral water (very low mineral content, low mineral content, rich in mineral
content) with an inoculum that gave a final concentration of approximately one
organism per millilitre in the bottled water (Vachée and Leclerc 1995). Four test
strains were used: one obtained from a culture collection, one from a patient
with septicaemia and two from surface water. The test bacteria were inoculated
immediately after sampling from waters. Overall experimental conditions
mimicked natural contamination before bottling. In the filter-sterilized waters,
P. aeruginosa attained more than 104 cfu/ml a few days after inoculation and
remained almost constant during the nine months of the experiment. In mineral
                     Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                       109

water with the autochthonous flora, the initial inoculum did not increase at all
during the experiment (Figure 6.3).




Figure 6.3. Survival or growth determined by viable counts (CFU) of Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (wild-type strain) on a selective medium after inoculation into mineral water
maintained at room temperature containing the autochthonous flora (■) and without the
autochthonous flora (□). The results show that the normal flora exerts a strong
antagonistic effect on a low inoculum of P. aeruginosa. Redrawn from Vachée and
Leclerc (1995).

   To elucidate the inhibitory ability of the mineral water autochthonous flora, it is
important to remember that the predominant culturable bacteria belong to the genus
Pseudomonas or related genera and that these bacteria produce secondary metabolites
with toxic or antagonist activity for competitors: siderophores and antibiotics, amino
acids and peptides, some glycolipids, lipids and aliphatic compounds with a broad
spectrum of activity against bacteria and fungi, as described in our review (Leclerc and
Da Costa 1998). In the 1990s, fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. emerged due to a high
potential for rapid and aggressive colonization and for preventing the invasion of
detrimental or pathogenic microorganisms in plants.

6.5.4 Assessing health risk from autochthonous bacteria
There are several approaches to detecting bacterial populations such as those
autochthonous to mineral waters that could have public health importance but
are not known to be pathogenic. The methods available include animal model
110                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

systems, epidemiological studies and search for virulence factors from bacterial
isolates.

6.5.4.1 Animal model system
Axenic animals constitute a first choice for determining whether the
autochthonous bacteria occurring in mineral water are able to adhere to,
penetrate and multiply in epithelial cells or produce toxins or irritating
substances causing tissue damage. The most stringent experiment was devised
to compare the transit of an inoculum of several autochthonous strains and that
of spores used as markers (Ducluzeau et al. 1976b). In spite of the presence of
an equivalent number of Pseudomonas (strain P1) cells and of the inert marker
in the inoculum, the maximum number of Pseudomonas in the faeces was lower
than that of the spores, and the former disappeared from the faeces more rapidly
than the latter. Thus, a partial destruction of Pseudomonas P1 was shown during
its transit through the digestive tract. Other strains that predominate in water —
e.g., Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter — provided similar results.

6.5.4.2 Randomized trial in infants
The safety of water used for the preparation of baby feeding bottles is
universally recognized as essential. In the past, mineral water conditioned in
glass bottles was used. Since 1970, PVC conditioning has been used, and some
people have wondered about the modifications in the microbial populations that
may have resulted from using water bottled in PVC, as well as effects on the
health of babies. To answer this question, a study (Leclerc 1990) was carried
out, including 30 babies fed with milk reconstituted from powder with natural
mineral water and another 30 receiving milk made with the same mineral water
previously heat pasteurized. The test was double-blind. All babies were
carefully selected. In no case was it possible to isolate mineral water-derived
bacteria from rhinopharyngeal samples 1 or 2 h after drinking milk. Nor was
there evidence of digestive tract colonization when examining stool samples.
From a clinical point of view, no differences could be found between the two
groups. In no case was evidence obtained justifying suspension of milk feeding.

6.5.4.3 Virulence characteristics of bacteria
Several studies have been made to test the invasive or cytotoxic activity of
bacterial flora of drinking-water on cultured cell lines (Leclerc and Moreau
2002). In all cases, a small percentage (1–2%) of bacteria examined were
cytotoxic. In the study of Payment et al. (1994), a high percentage of the
cytotoxic bacteria isolated belonged to the genus Bacillus.
                    Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                    111

   A study was conducted in our laboratory to determine the virulence
characteristics of natural mineral water bacteria. The tests selected determined
the ability of bacteria to attach to, invade and injure Hep-2 cells. The method
used was the one described by Edberg et al. (1997). A total of 240
representative strains isolated from five French springs was selected, including
Pseudomonas fluorescens and several new species, such as P. rhodesiae, P.
veronii, P. gessardii, P. migulae, P. jessenii, P. mandelii, P. libaniensis, P.
cedrella and P. orientalis (Leclerc and Moreau 2002). Results showed that all
bacteria studied were capable of growing on and attaching to Hep-2 cells or
producing cytotoxin at a temperature of 37 °C. The detection of bacterial
activity in one or several of the tests for putative virulence factors may be useful
for showing potential health hazards posed by bacteria isolated from potable
water. Nevertheless, the exact relationship between putative virulence factors
and their potential health effects remains to be investigated.
   Overall experimental and epidemiological data show that autochthonous
bacteria of natural mineral waters have never brought about detectable
pathological disorders in humans or animals and, in vitro, are incapable of
directly damaging human cells in tissue culture. Since the existence of European
regulations dating from 1980 (European Union 1980), no outbreak or single
case of disease due to the consumption of natural mineral water has been
recorded in the literature or by the health authorities of the countries within the
European Community.


6.6 CONCLUSIONS
   (1) In the past decade, many outbreaks attributed to protozoan or viral
       agents have been reported in conventionally treated water supplies,
       many of which met coliform standards. Viruses have been shown to
       persist longer in these waters than thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms and
       are more resistant to water and wastewater treatment processes. A
       similar situation exists for protozoan cysts. These findings repeatedly
       suggest the inadequacy of the established processes for producing and
       delivering safe water and the inadequacy of coliforms as indicators. On
       the other hand, since the existence of European regulations dating from
       1980, no outbreak or single case of disease due to the consumption of
       natural mineral water that met European microbiological standards has
       been recorded. Other epidemiological data, including a cohort study in
       infants, animal tests and cell tests, have never shown adverse effects.
112                    HPC and Drinking-water Safety

  (2) Heterogeneity is a primary factor in the drinking-water distribution
      system. Key to habitat development are the following: areas for
      sediment deposition, materials that are degradable, static water zones,
      long residence time in the network and warm water. The various
      nutrients are a major factor for determining whether heterotrophic
      bacteria can colonize the distribution system. The general population in
      water supplies includes many Gram-negative and Gram-positive
      bacteria, spore formers, acid-fast bacilli, opportunistic fungi and yeasts,
      free-living protozoa and macroinvertebrates. The network shows a high
      degree of spatial and temporal heterogeneity. The pathogens that are
      unable to multiply in water, such as enteric viruses, G. lamblia cysts and
      C. parvum oocysts, but are resistant or even highly resistant to chlorine
      stress, will be able to persist for weeks and months in the distribution
      systems, often at low levels, in connection with a biofilm.
  (3) E. coli are not particularly fastidious in their growth requirements;
      therefore, presumably the potential exists for regrowth when most
      conditions conducive to their growth (nutrients, temperature) have been
      met. However, there appears to be no convincing published evidence
      that E. coli can grow within drinking-water systems, including within
      biofilms.
  (4) There is a variety of environmental opportunistic human pathogens that
      can pass through water treatment barriers in very low densities and take
      advantage of and colonize selected sites in the water supply systems.
      They are typical biofilm organisms that grow at the periphery of the
      distribution systems (long pipe runs into dead ends) and throughout the
      pipe network where the water can be stagnant. The most important
      organisms to consider are Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Aeromonas spp.,
      Legionella spp. and MAC. P. aeruginosa and Aeromonas are
      widespread in surface waters. Their presence in the water supply is an
      indication of biofilm development in sediment accumulations in
      pipeline. The relationship between their presence in drinking-water and
      the occurrence of gastrointestinal infections is a much debated question.
      However, the occurrence of P. aeruginosa should be limited to the
      lowest extent possible because of its opportunist pathogenic potential.
      MAC organisms can grow in water, and M. avium numbers are higher in
      hospital hot water systems than in source waters. Their occurrence is a
      real problem, especially related to patients in hospital settings.
      However, there is no statistically significant association between disease
      incidence and biofilm colony counts for any of the mycobacterial
      groups.
                      Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                         113

            Biofilms in distribution systems are ecological niches in which
         Legionella spp. survive and proliferate. Protozoa provide the habitats for
         the environmental survival and reproduction of Legionella species. In
         addition, it is the ability of Legionella to enter a VBNC state and the
         preference of some species, if not all, for warm water that allows their
         proliferation in domestic systems.
    (5) Unlike drinking-water distribution, mineral natural water and biological
        components evolve in a homogeneous habitat, including ionic strength,
        anions and cations, and trace nutrients. Bacterial communities in a
        spring belong to a few proteobacterial groups, such as the
        Flavobacterium–Cytophaga phylum, and each spring should be
        characterized by genomic patterns determining its microdiversity.
    (6) Among bacterial pathogens growing in water, P. aeruginosa and
        Aeromonas spp. are sometimes able to contaminate mineral water in low
        numbers for the same reason as coliforms, with the same significance as
        indicators of quality. The occurrence of MAC members has never been
        reported in mineral water samples. Likewise, cells of Legionella spp.
        have been never mentioned in mineral water, neither at source nor in a
        bottle. The problem of Legionella concerns the particular usage of
        mineral water in hydrothermal areas where warm spa water promotes
        the growth of legionellae (WHO, in revision).


6.7 REFERENCES
Amann, R. and Ludwig, W. (2000) Ribosomal RNA-targeted nucleic acid probes for
     studies in microbial ecology. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 24, 555–565.
Ashbolt, N.J., Dorsch, M.R., Cox, P.T. and Banens, P. (1997) Blooming E. coli, what do
     they mean? In Coliforms and E. coli. Problem or Solution? (ed. D. Kay and C.
     Fricker), pp. 78–89, The Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.
Atlas, R.M. (1999) Legionella: from environmental habitats to disease pathology,
     detection and control. Environ. Microbiol. 1, 283–293.
Bischofberger, T., Cha, S.K., Schmitt, R., König, B. and Schmidt-Lorenz, W. (1990) The
     bacterial flora of non-carbonated, natural mineral water from the springs to reservoir
     and glass and plastic bottles. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 11, 51–72.
Block, J.C. (1992) Biofilms in drinking water distribution systems. In Biofilms — Science
     and Technology (ed. L. Melo, T.R. Boh, M. Fletcher and B. Capdeville), Kluwer
     Publishers, Dordrecht.
Block, J.C., Sibille, I., Gatel, D., Reasoner, D.J., Lykins, B. and Clark, R.M. (1997)
     Biodiversity in drinking water distribution systems: a brief review. In The
     Microbiological Quality of Water (ed. D.W. Sutcliffe), Freshwater Biological
     Association, London.
114                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Bogosian, G., Morris, P.J.L. and O’Neil, J. (1998) A mixed culture recovery method
     indicates that enteric bacteria do not enter the viable but nonculturable state. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 64, 1736–1742.
Buck, A.C. and Cooke, E.M. (1969) The fate of ingested Pseudomonas aeruginosa in
     normal persons. J. Med. Microbiol. 2, 521–525.
Burke, V., Robinson, J., Gracey, M., Peterson, D. and Partridge, K. (1984) Isolation of
     Aeromonas hydrophila from a metropolitan water supply: seasonal correlation with
     clinical isolates. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 48, 361–366.
Camper, A.K., McFeters, G.A., Characklis, W.G. and Jones, W.L. (1991) Growth
     kinetics of coliform bacteria under conditions relevant to drinking water distribution
     systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57, 2233–2239.
Casadevall, A. and Pirofski, L.A. (1999) Host–pathogen interactions: redefining the basic
     concepts of virulence and pathogenicity. Infect. Immun. 67, 3703–3713.
Casadevall, A. and Pirofski, L.A. (2000) Host–pathogen interactions: basic concepts of
     microbial commensalism, colonization, infection, and disease. Infect. Immun. 68,
     6511–6518.
Chapelle, F.H. (1993) Ground-water Microbiology & Geochemistry. 424 pp., Wiley,
     New York.
Codex Alimentarius Commission (1994) Codex standards for natural mineral waters. In
     Codex Alimentarius, vol. XI, part III, Food and Agriculture Organization of the
     United Nations, Rome.
Costerton, J.W., Lewandowski, Z., Caldwell, D.E., Korber, D.R. and Lappin-Scott, H.M.
     (1995) Microbial biofilms. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 49, 711–745.
Davey, M.E. and O’Toole G.A. (2000) Microbial biofilms: from ecology to molecular
     genetics. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 64, 847–867.
Ducluzeau, R., Hudault, S. and Galpin, J.V. (1976a) Longevity of various bacterial
     strains of intestinal origin in gas-free mineral water. Eur. J. Appl. Microbiol. 3, 227–
     236.
Ducluzeau, R., Dufresne, S. and Bochand, J.M. (1976b) Inoculation of the digestive tract
     of axenic mice with the autochthonous bacteria of mineral water. Eur. J. Appl.
     Microbiol. 2, 127–134.
Edberg, S.C., Kops, S., Kontnick, C. and Escarzaga, M. (1997) Analysis of cytotoxicity
     and invasiveness of heterotrophic plate count bacteria (HPC) isolated from drinking
     water on blood media. J. Appl. Microbiol. 82, 455–461.
Edberg, S.C., Rice, E.W., Karlin, R.J. and Allen, M.J. (2000) Escherichia coli: the best
     biological drinking water indicator for public health protection. J. Appl. Microbiol.
     88, 106S–116S.
Egli, T. (1995) The ecological and physiological significance of the growth of
     heterotrophic microorganisms with mixtures of substrates. Adv. Microb. Ecol. 14,
     305–386.
Engstrand, L. (2001) Helicobacter in water and waterborne routes of transmission. J.
     Appl. Microbiol. 90, 80S–84S.
Ernst, P.B. and Gold, B.D. (2000) The disease spectrum of Helicobacter pylori: the
     immunopathogenesis of gastroduodenal ulcer and gastric cancer. Annu. Rev.
     Microbiol. 54, 615–640.
European Union (1980) Council Directive 80/778/EEC of 15 July 1980 relating to the
     quality of water intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L229, 11–
     29.
                     Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                         115

Falkinham, J.O., III, Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2001) Factors influencing
     numbers of Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and other
     mycobacteria in drinking water distribution systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 67,
     1225–1231.
Farmer, J.J., Arduino, M.J. and Hickman-Brenner, F.W. (1992) The genera Aeromonas
     and Plesiomonas. In The Prokaryotes, 2nd edn (ed. A. Balows, G. Trüper, M.
     Dworkin, W. Harder and K.H. Schleifer), Springer-Verlag, New York.
Faruque, S.M., Albert, M.J. and Mekalanos, J.J. (1998) Epidemiology, genetics, and
     ecology of toxigenic Vibrio cholerae. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 62, 1301–1314.
Fass, S., Dincher, M.L., Reasoner, D.J., Gatel, D. and Block, J.C. (1996) Fate of
     Escherichia coli experimentally injected in a drinking water distribution pilot
     system. Water Res. 30, 2215–2221.
Ferreira, A.C., Morais, P.V. and Da Costa, M.S. (1993) Alterations in total bacteria,
     iodonitrophenyltetrazolium (INT)-positive bacteria, and heterotrophic plate counts
     of bottled mineral water. Can. J. Microbiol. 40, 72–77.
Fliermans, C.B. (1996) Ecology of Legionella: from data to knowledge with a little
     wisdom. Microb. Ecol. 32, 203–228.
Gale, P. (1996) Developments in microbiological risk assessment models for drinking
     water. A short review. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 81, 403–410.
Geldreich, E.E. (1996) Microbial Quality of Water Supply in Distribution Systems. 504
     pp., CRC Lewis Publishers, Boca Raton, FL.
Gonzalez, C., Gutierrez, C. and Grande, T. (1987) Bacterial flora in bottled uncarbonated
     mineral drinking water. Can. J. Microbiol. 33, 1120–1125.
Guillot, E. and Leclerc, H. (1993) Bacterial flora in natural mineral waters:
     characterization by ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene restriction patterns. Syst. Appl.
     Microbiol. 16, 483–493.
Hacker, J. and Kaper, J.B. (2000) Pathogenicity islands and the evolution of microbes.
     Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 54, 641–679.
Hardalo, C. and Edberg, S.C. (1997) Pseudomonas aeruginosa: assessment of risk from
     drinking water. Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 23, 47–75.
Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., Van Silfhout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van der
     Kooij, D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with diarrhoea and
     from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 72, 435–444.
Hegarty, J.P., Dowd, M.T. and Baker, K.H. (1999) Occurrence of Helicobacter pylori in
     surface water in the United States. J. Appl. Microbiol. 87, 697–701.
Hendricks, C.W. (1972) Enteric bacterial growth rates in river water. Appl. Microbiol.
     24, 168–174.
Hengge-Aronis, R. (2000) The general stress response in Escherichia coli. In Bacterial
     Stress Responses (ed. G. Storz and R. Hengge-Aronis), pp. 161–178, ASM Press,
     Washington, DC.
Isenberg, H.D. (1988) Pathogenicity and virulence: another view. Clin. Microbiol. Rev. 1,
     40–53.
Jayasekara, N.Y., Heard, G.M., Cox, J.M. and Fleet, G.H. (1999) Association of
     microorganisms with the inner surfaces of bottles of non-carbonated mineral waters.
     Food Microbiol. 16, 115–128.
Jones, C.R., Adams, M.R., Zhdan, P.A. and Chamberlain, A.H.L. (1999) The role of
     surface physicochemical properties in determining the distribution of the
     autochthonous microflora in mineral water bottles. J. Appl. Microbiol. 86, 917–927.
116                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Jones, K. (1997) Strategies for survival. In Coliforms and E. coli. Problem or Solution?
     (ed. D. Kay and C. Fricker), The Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.
Kalmbach, S., Manz, W., Bendinger, B. and Szewzyk, U. (2000) In situ probing reveals
     Aquabacterium commune as widespread and highly abundant bacterial species in
     drinking water biofilms. Water Res. 34, 575–581.
Kjelleberg, S. ( 1993) Starvation in Bacteria. Plenum Press, New York.
Kovarova-Kovar, K. and Egli, T. (1998) Growth kinetics of suspended microbial cells:
     from single-substrate-controlled growth to mixed-substrate kinetics. Microbiol. Mol.
     Biol. Rev. 62, 646–666.
LeChevallier, M.W. (1990) Coliform regrowth in drinking water: a review. J. Am. Water
     Works Assoc. 82, 74–86.
Leclerc, H. (1990) Les qualités bactériologiques de l’eau minérale d’Evian. In L’eau
     minérale d’Evian, pp. 27–27, S.A. des Eaux Minérales d’Evian, Evian, France.
Leclerc, H. and Buttiaux, R. (1962) Fréquence des Aeromonas dans les eaux
     d’alimentation. Ann. Inst. Pasteur 103, 97–100.
Leclerc, H. and Da Costa, M.S. (1998) The microbiology of natural mineral waters. In
     Technology of Bottled Water (ed. D.A.G. Senior and P. Ashurst), pp. 223–274,
     Academic Press, Sheffield.
Leclerc, H. and Moreau, A. (2002) Microbiological safety of natural mineral water.
     FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 26(2), 207–222.
Leclerc, H., Mossel, D.A.A., Edberg, S.C. and Struijk, C.B. (2001) Advances in the
     bacteriology of the coliform group: their suitability as markers of microbial water
     safety. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 55, 201–234.
Leclerc, H., Schwartzbrod, L. and Dei Cas, E. (2002) Microbial agents associated with
     waterborne diseases. Accepted for publication in Crit. Rev. Microbiol.
Lepow, M.L. (1994) Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonization and infection of the
     gastointestinal tract. In Pseudomonas aeruginosa Infections and Treatment (ed. A.L.
     Baltch and R.P. Smith), pp. 421–440, Marcel Dekker, New York.
Manaia, C.M., Nunes, O.C., Morais, P.V. and Da Costa, M.S. (1990) Heterotrophic plate
     counts and the isolation of bacteria from mineral waters on selective and enrichment
     media. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 69, 871–876.
Mancini, J.L. (1978) Numerical estimates of coliform mortality rates under various
     conditions. J. Water Pollut. Control Fed. 50, 2477–2484.
Matin, A. (1991) The molecular basis of carbon starvation-induced general resistance in
     E. coli. Mol. Microbiol. 5, 3–11.
Maul, A., El-Shaarawi, A.H. and Block, J.C. (1985a) Heterotrophic bacteria in water
     distribution systems. I. Spatial and temporal variation. Sci. Total Environ. 44, 201–
     214.
Maul, A., El-Shaarawi, A.H. and Block, J.C. (1985b) Heterotrophic bacteria in water
     distribution systems. II. Sampling design for monitoring. Sci. Total Environ. 44,
     215–224.
McKeown, I., Orr, P., Macdonald, S., Kabani, A., Brown, R., Coghlan, G., Dawood, M.,
     Embil, J., Sargent, M., Smart, G. and Bernstein, C.N. (1999) Helicobacter pylori in
     the Canadian arctic: seroprevalence and detection in community water samples. Am.
     J. Gastroenterol. 94, 1823–1829.
McMath, S.M. and Holt, D.M. (2000) The fate of Escherichia coli through water
     treatment and in distribution. J. Appl. Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 88, 117S–123S.
                     Bacteria and pathogens in drinking-water                         117

Moreira, L., Agostinno, P., Morais, P.V. and Da Costa, M.S. (1994) Survival of
     allochthonous bacteria in still mineral water bottled in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and
     glass. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 77, 334–339.
Morgan, D.R., Johnson, P.C., DuPont, H.L., Satterwhite, T.K. and Wood, L.V. (1985)
     Lack of correlation between known virulence properties of Aeromonas hydrophila
     and enteropathogenicity for humans. Infect. Immun. 50, 62–65.
Morin, P., Gauthier, V., Saby, S. and Block, J.C. (1999) Bacterial resistance to chlorine
     through attachment to particles and pipe surfaces in drinking water distribution
     systems. In Biofilms in Aquatic Systems (ed. C.V. Keevil, A. Godfree, D. Holt and
     C. Dow), pp. 171–190, Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.
Morita, R.Y. (1997) Bacteria in Oligotrophic Environments. Starvation Lifestyle. 529
     pp., Chapman and Hall, New York.
Niemi, R.M., Niemela, S., Mentu, J. and Siitonen, A. (1987) Growth of Escherichia coli
     in a pulp and cardboard mill. Can. J. Microbiol. 33, 541–545.
Nyström, T. (1993) Global systems approach to the physiology of the starved cell. In
     Starvation in Bacteria (ed. S. Kjelleberg), pp. 129–146, Plenum Press, New York.
Oger, C., Hernandez, J.F., Delattre, J.M., Delabroise, A.H. and Krupsky, S. (1987) Etude
     par épifluorescence de l’évolution de la microflore totale dans une eau minérale
     embouteillée. Water Res. 21, 469–474.
Oliver, J.D. (1993) Formation of viable but nonculturable cells. In Starvation in Bacteria
     (ed. S. Kjelleberg), pp. 239–272, Plenum Press, New York.
Palleroni, N.J. (1984) Genus 1. Pseudomonas Migula 1894. In: Bergey’s Manual of
     Systematic Bacteriology, Vol. 1 (ed. N.R. Krieg and J.G. Holt), pp. 141–199,
     Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD.
Payment, P., Coffin, E. and Paquette, G. (1994) Blood agar to detect virulence factors in
     tap water heterotrophic bacteria. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60, 1179–1183.
Ristola, M.A., von Reyn, C.F., Arbeit, R.D., Soini, H., Lumio, J., Ranki, A., Bühler, S.,
     Waddell, R., Tosteson, A.N.A., Falkinham, J.O., III and Sox, C.H. (1999) High rates
     of disseminated infection due to non-tuberculous mycobacteria among AIDS
     patients in Finland. J. Infect. 39, 61–67.
Saby, S., Leroy, P. and Block, J.C. (1999) E. coli resistance to chlorine and glutathione
     synthesis in response to high oxygenation and starvation. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     65, 5600–5603.
Schloter, M., Lebuhn, M., Heulin, T. and Hartmann, A. (2000) Ecology and evolution of
     bacterial microdiversity. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 24, 647–660.
Schubert, R.H. (2000) Intestinal cell adhesion and maximum growth temperature of
     psychrotrophic aeromonads from surface water. Int. J. Hyg. Environ. Health 203,
     83–85.
Schwaller, P. and Schmidt-Lorenz, W. (1980) Flore microbienne de quatre eaux
     minérales non gazéifiées et mises en bouteilles. 1. Dénombrement de colonies,
     composition grossière de la flore, et caractères du groupe des bactéries Gram négatif
     pigmentées en jaune. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. 1 Abt. Orig. C 1, 330–347.
Smith, T. (1934) Parasitism and Disease, Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ.
Stortz, G. and Zheng, M. (2000) Oxidative stress. In Bacterial Stress Responses (ed. G.
     Stortz and R. Hennge-Aronis), pp. 47–59, ASM Press, Washington, DC.
Swanson, M.S. and Hammer, B.K. (2000) Legionella pneumophila pathogenesis: a
     fateful journey from amoebae to macrophages. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 54, 567–613.
118                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Szewzyk, U., Manz, W., Amann, R., Schleifer, K.H. and Strenström, T.H. (1994) Growth
    and in situ detection of a pathogenic Escherichia coli in biofilms of a heterotrophic
    water-bacterium by use of 16S- and 23S-rRNA-directed fluorescent oligonucleotide
    probes. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 13, 169–176.
Szewzyk, U., Szewzyk, R., Manz, W. and Schleifer K.H. (2000) Microbiological safety
    of drinking water. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 54, 81–127.
Vachée, A. and Leclerc, H. (1995) Propriétés antagonistes de la flore autochtone des
    eaux minérales naturelles vis-à-vis de Pseudomonas aeruginosa. J. Eur. Hydrol. 26,
    327–338.
Vachée, A., Vincent, P., Struijk, C.B., Mossel, D.A.A. and Leclerc, H. (1997) A study of
    the fate of the autochthonous bacterial flora of still mineral waters by analysis of
    restriction fragment length polymorphism of genes coding for rRNA. Syst. Appl.
    Microbiol. 20, 492–503.
van der Kooij, D. (1997) Multiplication of coliforms at very low concentrations of
    substrates in tap water. In Coliforms and E. coli. Problem or Solution? (ed. D. Kay
    and C. Fricker), pp. 195–203, The Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.
von Graevenitz, A. (1977) The role of opportunistic bacteria in human disease. Annu.
    Rev. Microbiol. 31, 447–471.
von Reyn, C.F., Maslow, J.N., Barber, T.W., Falkinham, J.O., III and Arbeit, R.D. (1994)
    Persistent colonisation of potable water as a source of Mycobacterium avium
    infection in AIDS. Lancet 343, 1137–1141.
WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, vol. 2, Health Criteria and Other
    Supporting Information. World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2002) Aeromonas. In Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn,
    Addendum: Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water, pp. 1–13, World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
Wimpenny, J., Manz, W. and Szewzyk, U. (2000) Heterogeneity in biofilms. FEMS
    Microbiol. Rev. 24, 661–671.
Wolinsky, E. (1979) Non-tuberculous mycobacteria and associated diseases. Am. Rev.
    Respir. Dis. 119, 107–159.
Zobell, C.E. and Anderson, D.Q. (1936) Observations on the multiplication of bacteria in
    different volumes of stored sea water and the influence of oxygen tension and solid
    surfaces. Biol. Bull. 71, 324–342.
7
Epidemiological and risk
assessment evidence of disease
linked to HPC bacteria
P.R. Hunter




7.1 INTRODUCTION
Evidence proving that a particular microbe causes disease in humans is
frequently difficult to obtain. For over a century, Koch’s postulates have been
accepted as being as close to proof as is likely to be achieved. If any
microorganism satisfies these postulates, then most microbiologists would
accept that the organism was indeed pathogenic. Koch’s postulates are as
follows:

     (1) The organism is regularly found in the lesions of the disease.


 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
120                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

    (2) It can be grown in pure culture outside the body of the host, for several
        generations.
    (3) Such a culture will reproduce the disease in question when administered
        to a susceptible experimental animal.

   Unfortunately, most potential pathogens are unable to satisfy all, or even
most, of these postulates. This is especially the case for bacteria that contribute
to the heterotrophic plate count (HPC), many species of which do not induce
disease when administered to an experimental animal.
   In the absence of Koch’s postulates, we are forced to turn to epidemiology to
attempt to show that many pathogens, HPC bacteria included, cause disease in
humans. The problem is that no single epidemiological study can provide proof.
Epidemiology only demonstrates statistical associations between disease and
potential risk factors.
   However, epidemiological evidence is an essential contributory factor in
determining proof of causation. As early as the 1960s, Bradford-Hill (1965)
enumerated a variety of criteria that need to be satisfied in order to demonstrate
causality (Table 7.1).
Table 7.1. Criteria for demonstrating causality
 Criteria         Description
 Strength of      Is any association between disease and the risk factor, as demonstrated
 association      in epidemiological study, statistically significant?
 Consistency      Do the results from different researchers all suggest an association?
 Specificity      Is the disease specific to contact with the risk factor, or are there other
                  known causes?
 Temporality      Does the disease follow exposure to the proposed risk factor (rather
                  than precede it)?
 Biological       Is the disease more common in those people with most exposure to the
 gradient         risk factor?
 Plausibility     From what is already known of the biology of the potential pathogen,
                  is it plausible that the exposure causes disease?
 Coherence        Do the epidemiological data conflict with other biological and clinical
                  data suggesting causality?
 Experiment       Is it possible to design experimental interventions to demonstrate
                  causality? (reference back to Koch’s postulates)
 Analogy          Are there other similar illnesses that behave in a similar way?

   In this chapter, the evidence for an association between HPC bacteria and
disease in humans is reviewed. It is also considered whether the quantitative
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                 121

microbial risk assessment (QMRA) approach can contribute to our
understanding of the public health importance of this group of bacteria.


7.2 EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES OF HUMAN ILLNESS
    AND HPC
There have been very few epidemiological studies that have been designed to
illustrate the association between HPC and human health effects. Perhaps the
only study was that of Ferley and colleagues (Ferley et al. 1986; Zmirou et al.
1987). This study was done in France from 1983 to 1984. The authors
conducted a prospective longitudinal study over 18 months in 52 French Alpine
villages, all of which were supplied with untreated surface water. The
microbiological quality of drinking-water was monitored weekly. Physicians,
pharmacists and primary school teachers recorded human illness due to
gastroenteritis. Waters that did not meet European microbial quality standards
were associated with an increased risk of gastroenteritis at around the time of
sampling. The association was most marked for faecal streptococci counts,
although thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms were also independently associated
with illness. Total coliforms and HPC bacterial counts provided were not
independently associated with illness.
    The first controlled trials relevant to this topic were conducted by Calderon
(1988) and Calderon and Mood (1991). These were two large studies that were
designed to specifically address concerns about the health effects of HPC
growth associated with point-of-use filters. The first study was conducted
among Navy families in Connecticut, USA, who were randomly allocated to
receive one of two types of granular activated carbon (GAC) filter or a blank
filter case (Calderon 1988). The study covered over 600 person-years. There
was regular monitoring of water quality, and human health was assessed by
participants keeping a diary. The study covered a wide range of self-reported
symptoms, including gastrointestinal, respiratory, skin rashes, joint pains, fever
and infected wounds.
    Water from taps with GAC filters in place had substantially higher
heterotroph counts (mean >1000/ml) compared with unfiltered water (mean
92/ml). There was no statistical difference in reported symptoms between
people receiving filtered (high HPC) water and unfiltered (low HPC) water. A
further study was conducted with a different filter type and came to the same
conclusions (Calderon and Mood 1991).
    Although the study was not designed to demonstrate an association between
illness and HPC bacteria, Payment found an association between illness and
122                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

total count in his first randomized controlled trial (Payment et al. 1991a). The
study was primarily designed to compare illness rates in people with and
without point-of-use reverse osmosis filters on their tap water (Payment et al.
1991b). The investigators found that there was an association between
gastrointestinal illnesses and HPC at 35 °C among people whose drinking-water
had been through a reverse osmosis filter. However, a few outliers in the data set
probably gave the statistical significance.
    The association between HPC bacteria and human illness was formally tested
in Payment’s second trial (Payment et al. 1997). In this study, people were
divided into four groups: those drinking normal tap water, those whose tap was
left running to waste, those who were given bottled plant effluent water (plant)
and those also given bottled plant effluent water that had been further treated by
reverse osmosis filtration (purified). This study is of particular interest with
regard to HPC bacteria. In the two bottled water groups, the plant water had
substantially higher HPC bacterial counts than the purified group. Despite this,
gastrointestinal illness rates were not significantly different between the two
groups. With regard to the two tap water groups, the illness rate in the group
with the continuously running tap (lower HPC) was actually higher. This study
demonstrated no association between counts of HPC bacteria and
gastrointestinal illness in humans.
    Although not strictly applicable to HPC bacteria, it is interesting to note that
there was no association demonstrated between total coliforms and human
illness in the Australian randomized controlled trial (Hellard et al. 2001).
    Based on the available epidemiological evidence, Bradford-Hill’s criteria
would appear to fall at the first hurdle. Most studies have failed to demonstrate
any association between HPC and gastroenteritis in humans. Of the one study to
suggest an association, the likelihood was that the effect was an artefact due to
one or two outliers in the data (Payment and Hunter 2001). The evidence is
fairly certain that there is no relationship between gastrointestinal illness and
HPC bacteria in drinking-water.


7.3 EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES OF DISEASE DUE TO
    BACTERIA THAT MAY BE PART OF THE HPC
    FLORA
Given that the evidence does not point to an association between HPC counts in
drinking-water and disease in humans, the next strategy is to try to identify
whether illness due to HPC bacteria can be linked to drinking-water
consumption or contact. A problem with this approach is that many of the HPC
bacteria only rarely, if ever, cause disease. Although there may be some debate
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                123

whether Mycobacterium spp. count as HPC bacteria, there is probably more
clear evidence about an association with potable water and bacteria in this genus
than in any other, and so mycobacteria will be discussed.

7.3.1 Mycobacteria
Perhaps one of the best sources of evidence that Mycobacterium spp. in water
systems can colonize people comes from the number of pseudo-outbreaks due to
atypical mycobacteria (Sniadack et al. 1993; Bennett et al. 1994; Wallace et al.
1998; Lalande et al. 2001). In some of these pseudo-outbreaks, the source of
contamination was misidentification due to laboratory contamination or
contamination of specimen collection devices. In other cases, patients were
actually colonized.
    However, pseudo-outbreaks do not equate to disease. There have been fewer
real outbreaks reported than pseudo-outbreaks where mycobacterial infection
was linked with water supplies. Perhaps one of the clearest examples was an
outbreak of sternal wound infections due to M. fortuitum in Texas (Kuritsky et
al. 1983). The same strain was isolated from both clinical samples and a number
of water samples taken from the hospital environment. This included positive
results from a cold water tap in the operating room, i.e., water used to cool
cardioplegia solution in the operating room. Perhaps the most telling positive
results were from municipal water coming into the hospital. From India, Chadha
and colleagues (1998) reported an outbreak of post-surgical wound infections
due to M. abscessus that was eventually linked to contaminated tap water.
    Perhaps the most intriguing evidence relates to M. avium complex (MAC).
[Editors’ note: Because of the wide interest in the potential public health
significance of some non-tuberculous mycobacteria in water, including MAC,
this is the theme of a separate book in the same series as this volume.] In
Massachusetts, the isolation rate of MAC increased from 0.19% of samples in
1972 to 0.91% in 1983 (du Moulin et al. 1988). The incidence was not
consistent throughout the state but was higher in those communities that
received their water supplies from a particular company. This company’s water
was taken from a series of watersheds and then transported up to 100 km
through an aging distribution system. M. avium was isolated from this supply.
    Most interest in MAC infections relates to those in people with HIV
infection. Von Reyn et al. (1994) used pulse field gel electrophoresis to type
strains of M. avium from 29 patients with HIV infection and CD4 T lymphocyte
counts of less than 200/µl. Of 25 patients from whom more than one isolate was
available, 5 (20%) carried more than one distinct strain. M. avium was also
isolated from 10 (30%) of 33 water samples in one study and from hot water
124                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

samples at the two main hospitals. Of four types identified, two types were
simultaneously isolated from patients and their respective hospitals but not from
patients’ homes. These findings provided circumstantial evidence that infection
may be related to hospital water supplies.
   Probably the only substantial epidemiological study was conducted by
Horsburgh et al. (1994). They did a case–control study of M. avium infections in
83 patients with HIV infection and 177 HIV-positive, but M. avium-negative,
controls. Both cases and controls had CD4 T lymphocyte counts of less than
50/µl. In the final multivariate model, having a positive M. avium blood culture
was positively associated with a low CD4+ count (odds ratio [OR] 3.58,
confidence interval [CI] 1.71–7.49) and eating hard cheese (OR 5.63, CI 1.58–
20.1) and negatively associated with daily showering (OR 0.58, CI 0.28–0.88).
Risk factors for having M. avium in sputum included consumption of raw
shellfish (OR 7.28, CI 1.63–32.6) and intravenous drug use (OR 3.72, CI 1.32–
10.5). Daily showering (OR 0.27, CI 0.09–0.79) and having a cat (OR 0.27, CI
0.09–0.85) were negatively associated with the risk of sputum carriage. This
study does not support a waterborne hypothesis for MAC infections. Other
epidemiological studies have similarly not found that potable water is a risk
factor. Ristola and colleagues (1999) from Finland found that living in an urban
environment and eating raw fish were risk factors.
   It would appear that the evidence that mycobacteria in drinking-water pose a
risk to health is still fairly equivocal, even for MAC. Probably the strongest
evidence relates only to immunosuppressed individuals in the hospital
environment.

7.3.2 Aeromonas
The other candidate HPC pathogens that have attracted most interest are the
Aeromonas spp. The first suggestions that Aeromonas in drinking-water may be
associated with gastroenteritis came from observations that there was a close
correlation between counts of Aeromonas spp. in raw surface water and treated
waters and presence of the organism in stool samples (Burke et al. 1984; Picard
and Goullet 1987).
   Data from strain typing studies have not supported a link between strains in
drinking-water and strains from humans. Havelaar et al. (1992) typed 187
strains of Aeromonas spp. from human diarrhoeal stools and 263 strains from
drinking-water and concluded that strains in water were generally not similar to
strains in human samples. Hänninen and Siitonen (1995) used more
discriminatory genotyping methods and also found little similarity between
human and drinking-water isolates.
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                 125

   Epidemiological studies have not been supportive of a direct relationship
with HPC bacteria. Holmberg et al. (1986) reported a case–control study of just
34 American patients from whom A. hydrophila had been isolated. There was a
strong association with drinking untreated water (OR 20.91, CI 3.17–887.9). A
study in the Netherlands of 137 patients found that people who had had a
cytotoxigenic strain of Aeromonas spp. isolated from faeces were more likely to
report contact with surface water, such as swimming or fishing, or foreign travel
than people with a non-cytotoxigenic strain (Kuijper et al. 1989).
   The main problem in deciding whether Aeromonas in treated drinking-water
poses a risk to health is that there is still uncertainty about whether this
organism really is an enteric pathogen or whether it is just an innocent
commensal. The epidemiological studies described in the previous paragraph are
consistent with people who have become colonized by Aeromonas from
drinking untreated water and also got a diarrhoeal disease from whatever other
source. Indeed, the recent acute intestinal infectious disease study in the United
Kingdom found that the organism was more common in controls than in cases
of diarrhoea (Wheeler et al. 1999). This is strong evidence against Aeromonas
being an enteric pathogen. Furthermore, WHO (2002) recently published a
review of Aeromonas in drinking-water. This review also concluded that there
was no firm evidence that direct transmission occurs via drinking-water and that
strains isolated from water do not belong to the same groups that are associated
with gastroenteritis.

7.3.3 Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause infections of many body systems, including
skin, ears, eyes, wounds, bones and joints, the lungs, heart, central nervous
system and the urinary tract. However, serious infections tend to be restricted to
certain vulnerable populations, such as those patients who are severely
immunosuppressed, those with indwelling urinary, intravenous and other
catheters, those with open wounds or pressure sores, those with severe burns
and those with cystic fibrosis. The occasional skin infections associated with
bathing in spa pools are outside the scope of this discussion. There have been a
number of outbreaks of P. aeruginosa infection in hospital settings where the
investigation implicated tap water as the source of infection:

    •    Over a period of seven months, 5 (29%) of 17 patients were infected
         with P. aeruginosa genotypes that were also detectable in tap water
         (Trautmann et al. 2001).
126                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

      •   An outbreak of P. aeruginosa caused 14 urinary tract infections, of
          which 6 were symptomatic, in a paediatric surgical unit (Ferroni et al.
          1998). Most of the isolates were genotypically distinct, although two
          isolates from taps had similar genotypes to clinical isolates. The taps
          were changed, Pseudomonas disappeared from tap water and the
          outbreak was resolved.
      •   Multi-resistant P. aeruginosa O11 affected 36 patients on a
          neurosurgery intensive care unit (Bert et al. 1998). Nine patients were
          colonized only; of the other 27 patients with at least one infected site,
          there were 17 urinary infections, 10 pneumonias and 4 with sinusitis.
          The outbreak strain was isolated from tap water and from enteral
          nutrition solutions given to two infected patients. The outbreak was
          controlled after, among other things, replacement of all sinks in the
          unit.

   However, the simple detection of a strain of P. aeruginosa in tap water
during an outbreak is not, by itself, proof of a causative association. For most of
the outbreaks reported in the literature, it is not possible to distinguish between
infections of patients from a water source and infections from contamination of
the tap from the hands of patients and staff.
   The importance of environmental contamination with P. aeruginosa and
nosocomial disease is still unclear. Contamination of the hospital environment
by P. aeruginosa is common, and the bacteria are found in particularly high
numbers in drains from sinks and baths (Levin et al. 1984; Doring et al. 1991,
1993). While convincing outbreaks of infection from such sources have been
described, P. aeruginosa appears to be more commonly an endogenous rather
than an exogenous infection (Gruner et al. 1993). Indeed, in one study where 73
isolates were characterized, there appeared to be little similarity between human
and environmental strains, supporting the hypothesis that environmental sources
of infection are less important than contact with other infected individuals (Orsi
et al. 1994).
   In conclusion, while environmental sources of infection do contribute to
nosocomial acquisition of P. aeruginosa infections, they appear to be much less
significant than either endogenous or person-to-person transmission. The most
important environmental sources of infection within the hospital setting are not
tap water. What contribution contamination of tap water makes to the burden of
disease due to P. aeruginosa infection is likely to be very small.
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence               127

7.3.4 Legionella
Perhaps the best evidence of an association between potable water and
infections due to opportunistic pathogens is for Legionella spp. (Hunter 1997).
Legionella is subject to other WHO guidance (WHO, in revision) and will not
be discussed further in this chapter.

7.3.5 Other HPC bacteria
As far as this author is aware, there have been no other epidemiological studies
looking at risk factors for infection with HPC bacteria other than those
discussed above. There have, however, been a number of outbreaks of disease
linked to water supplies:

    •   An outbreak of multi-resistant Chryseobacterium (Flavobacterium)
        meningosepticum affected eight neonates on a neonatal intensive care
        unit (Hoque et al. 2001). Six were colonized in the respiratory
        secretions, and two were ill (one had pneumonia and one septicaemia
        and meningitis). The outbreak strain was recovered from sink taps.
        Repair and chlorination of the water tanks and changing the sink taps
        resolved the outbreak.
    •   Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was cultured from endotracheal aspirate
        samples from five preterm infants in a neonatal intensive care unit, of
        whom four were colonized and one died from septicaemia (Verweij et
        al. 1998). S. maltophilia was cultured from tap water from three
        outlets. The outbreak was controlled by reinforcement of hand
        disinfection, limitation of the use of tap water for hand washing and
        using sterile water to wash the preterm infants.
    •   Six patients in an intensive care unit (ICU) were colonized or infected
        with Pseudomonas paucimobilis (Crane et al. 1981). Most people were
        only transiently colonized in the sputum, although one person suffered
        a symptomatic urinary tract infection. P. paucimobilis was recovered
        from the ICU hot water line and water bottles used for rinsing tracheal
        suction connecting tubing.
    •   Over a five-week period, Pseudomonas multivorans was isolated from
        nine infected wounds following orthopaedic operations (Bassett et al.
        1970). The organism was also isolated from diluted disinfectant and
        from water samples from within and outside the hospital.
128                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

      •   Flavobacterium colonized 195 of 2329 consecutive patients admitted to
          an ICU during a six-year period (du Moulin 1979). No patients
          developed pneumonia as a result. The organism was detected in tap
          water from sinks in the hospital and the university dormitory. The
          organism was also eventually isolated from municipal service water
          reservoirs.

   As discussed above under P. aeruginosa (section 7.3.3), most of these reports
based their conclusions on the isolation of the pathogen from tap water. There
has already been discussion of the difficulties in identifying whether the patient
or the tap was colonized first. Problems may also arise if the investigators do not
adequately type clinical and environmental isolates. This is illustrated in an
outbreak of Chryseobacterium (Flavobacterium) meningosepticum among
intensive care patients. Although C. meningosepticum was isolated from tap
water and ice, these strains were subsequently shown to be distinct from those
colonizing patients (Pokrywka et al. 1993).
   It is notable that all these outbreaks occurred in particularly vulnerable
hospitalized patients who were recovering from surgery or who were
sufficiently ill to be on ICUs. Even in this group, the organism usually caused a
colonization and not infection. With the exception of P. aeruginosa urinary tract
infections, cases of infection due to HPC bacteria outside of hospital are very
rare. Even within hospitals, many HPC bacteria are only very occasionally
associated with disease. It is not surprising, therefore, that no prospective
epidemiological study of risk factors has been reported in the literature.
Nevertheless, given the earlier conclusion that potable water was likely to be a
very minor source of P. aeruginosa infections, the role of potable water as a
source of other HPC bacteria is likely to be very small, even within the hospital
environment. The role of potable water as a source of such infections outside of
hospitals is likely to be very small indeed.


7.4 RISK ASSESSMENT
The results of the epidemiological studies to date have been either negative or
equivocal about the role of HPC bacteria in the causation of human disease.
There are two possible explanations for these observations: either the risk to
health from HPC bacteria is indeed zero, or the risk is so small that the available
studies lack sufficient power to demonstrate the association. If the latter is the
case, then we may be able to use QMRA to identify and quantify the risk.
   QMRA is discussed in more detail elsewhere (Haas et al. 1999). Basically,
QMRA is composed of four key stages: hazard identification, exposure
assessment, dose–response assessment and the final risk characterization. Some
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                  129

of the stages in this process as it applies to a number of potential HPC bacteria
will now be considered. Only one paper has been located that has reported a
systematic risk assessment of several HPC bacteria (Rusin et al. 1997).

7.4.1 Hazard identification
The first problem facing anyone interested in undertaking a risk assessment of
HPC bacteria is which species to consider. There are many species in a number
of different genera that have been identified as being part of the HPC bacteria.
The bacteria include species from the genera Acinetobacter, Actinomyces,
Aeromonas,      Alcaligenes,      Arthrobacter,    Bacillus,     Chryseobacterium
(Flavobacterium), Citrobacter, Corynebacterium, Micrococcus, Moraxella,
Pseudomonas, Staphylococcus and a range of unidentifiable organisms (Bitton
1994). Of course, within each genus there may be many different species of
differing virulence. Anyone wishing to undertake comprehensive hazard
identification would have to identify each species and determine whether or not
it was pathogenic.
    Most species in the genera found in HPC bacteria have never or only very
rarely caused disease in humans. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is probably the HPC
bacterium most frequently associated with disease and can cause a wide range of
pathologies, such as urinary tract infections, respiratory disease (especially in
people with cystic fibrosis), ear and eye infections as well as a range of systemic
disease, such as bacteraemia, osteomyelitis and meningitis (Pollack 2000). A
minority of the other species also have the potential to cause disease. For
example, Acinetobacter spp. are well described opportunistic pathogens in
hospital patients and can cause suppurative infections, bacteraemia and
respiratory infections (Allen and Hartman 2000). From the hospital outbreaks
described above, Chryseobacterium (Flavobacterium) meningosepticum,
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Pseudomonas paucimobilis have also been
associated with disease. The key characteristic of these pathogens is that they
almost always cause disease only in humans who are hospitalized patients or
have some other predisposing condition.
    The major error associated with hazard identification is to assume that just
because an organism causes disease in some patients, it is infectious by the oral
route. Many of the HPC bacteria are widespread in the environment and
frequently colonize patients anyway. None of the HPC bacteria associated with
the hospital outbreaks discussed above seem to have been transmitted through
drinking-water, with the possible exception of MAC. For example,
Acinetobacter spp. are common commensals on human skin that frequently
colonize the axilla, groin and toe webs (Allen and Hartman 2000). The
130                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

epidemiological evidence is that most infections are probably due to overgrowth
of a person’s own endogenous microbial flora. In this context, Acinetobacter in
drinking-water is unlikely to be a hazard. Burkholderia cepacia is another case
in point. This pathogen causes severe disease in people with cystic fibrosis. It is
also frequently isolated from the HPC flora. However, although there is strong
evidence in favour of direct and indirect person-to-person spread, there is no
epidemiological evidence of waterborne infection (Pankhurst and Philpott-
Howard 1996).
   There is also another key problem with the hazard identification stage, and
that is to assume that because the organism causes occasional disease in a small
group of particularly susceptible individuals, the organism should be considered
a hazard in all situations. Just because an organism causes occasional infections
in very immunocompromised preterm babies does not make it a hazard in the
general population.

7.4.2 Exposure assessment
This would appear to be the most clear-cut aspect of the risk assessment process.
After all, a particular species would not be considered a member of the HPC
bacteria unless it was present in drinking-water. The main problem is whether or
not we can assume that members of a species present in water have equivalent
virulence to similar bacteria that cause disease. It is quite possible that strains of
a species found in water have different virulence from that of strains associated
with disease. This principle was recently highlighted during a waterborne
outbreak of cryptosporidiosis that was originally thought to be due to
contamination of the water from sheep faeces. Although oocysts were abundant
in the sheep faeces, genotyping showed them to be a novel genotype that has
never been described in humans (Chalmers et al. 2002). Another uncertainty is
the state of the strain in water. Many species are damaged by their presence in
the chlorinated and low-nutrient environment of water supplies. It is likely that
many strains isolated from water will have much lower virulence than those
isolated from clinical specimens.

7.4.3 Dose–response assessment
It is my belief that this is the area with the greatest uncertainty in risk
assessment. Ingestion of HPC bacteria rarely even causes colonization of a
human or laboratory animal unless the bacteria are given in very high doses. For
example, in a laboratory study of mice given 109 colony-forming units (cfu) of
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, only 25% became colonized (George et al. 1989).
                 Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                 131

None of the mice became ill. Animal studies of other HPC bacteria are
discussed by Rusin et al. (1997).
    In their paper on the risk assessment of a number of opportunistic bacterial
pathogens in drinking-water (Rusin et al. 1997), sufficient data were available to
calculate the dose–response curve of just two: Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
Aeromonas. Human volunteers required 1.5 × 106 – 2.0 × 108 cfu of
Pseudomonas aeruginosa to achieve colonization, and even then faecal carriage
lasted only 6 days unless the volunteers were taking ampicillin, in which case
the period of carriage lasted up to 14 days (Buck and Cooke 1969). Doses of
Aeromonas hydrophila of up to 1010 cfu have failed to produce diarrhoea in
humans. As discussed already, the evidence in favour of Aeromonas being an
enteric pathogen is still debatable. If Aeromonas is really such a pathogen, then
it is likely that only a small proportion of strains are associated with disease.
    Irrespective of the pathogen, dose–response curves can be subject to
potentially very large confidence intervals. This is due to a number of factors.
Firstly, most dose–response studies have been done using only relatively small
numbers of volunteers and, as such, are subject to potentially large stochastic
uncertainty (Marks et al. 1998). Secondly, there may be quite marked strain-to-
strain variation in infectivity (Coleman and Marks 1999). The infectivity of
strains when used in laboratory experiments may bear little relationship to
infectivity in drinking-water due to the stresses of chlorination and the low-
nutrient environment. Finally, there is still uncertainty about the correct dose–
response model to use (Holcomb et al. 1999). For HPC bacteria, the dose
required to even cause colonization, never mind infection, is very large
compared with the doses of bacteria to which people are exposed. To determine
the risk at the type of dose to which people are actually exposed, the risk
modellers would apply a mathematical dose–response curve and then
extrapolate down to the expected exposures. Unfortunately, it is not clear which
mathematical models are most appropriate. Different models can give estimates
of risk that vary by several orders of magnitude (Holcomb et al. 1999).

7.4.4 Risk categorization
Given the very great uncertainties inherent in the first three stages of the risk
assessment process, I believe that one should be extremely cautious about
giving too much credence to risk assessment data. Most of the sources of error
discussed above will overinflate the assessed risk to health. The principal source
of error in risk assessment of HPC bacteria is to equate colonization with
disease potential. While colonization is a first step towards infection, the human
132                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

organism has evolved to live symbiotically or at least commensally with a wide
range of microbes.
   A further problem with risk assessment generally is that the application takes
no account of other transmission routes. Humans are subject to transient
colonization with a wide range of bacteria that are derived from a number of
sources. Rarely, if ever, do we then suffer disease as a result.


7.5 CONCLUSIONS
In conclusion, we have been unable to identify any unequivocal epidemiological
evidence that HPC bacteria in drinking-water can cause disease in the general
population. In particular, high HPC counts are not associated with an increased
risk of gastrointestinal illness. Although many HPC bacteria have been
associated with disease from time to time, no epidemiological study has
demonstrated an association with drinking-water in the community. The
exception is for severely ill hospitalized patients (preterm babies and others on
ICUs). A number of outbreaks have shown that HPC bacteria in water supplies
can occasionally cause outbreaks in this setting. There is also some evidence,
albeit equivocal, that patients with HIV/AIDS can acquire MAC (not technically
part of the HPC flora) from hospital water systems, although there is no
evidence that water systems outside of hospitals pose any risk.
   QMRA methods for assessing health risk are, in my view, flawed as applied
to HPC bacteria. As discussed above, QMRA is subject to particularly severe
uncertainties for low-virulence organisms such as HPC bacteria. Furthermore,
the main thrust of all these uncertainties will be to overestimate any risk.
   Where does this leave a policymaker wishing to set standards for HPC?
Despite the fact that there is little or no epidemiological evidence implicating
HPC bacteria, concerns still keep surfacing about their presence. If HPC
bacteria in potable water pose a risk to human health, the risk appears to be
restricted to especially vulnerable individuals in the hospital setting. Control of
such infections is a matter for hospital infection control practitioners rather than
for water utilities.
   There is an increasing trend towards application of a comprehensive “water
safety plan” (WSP) approach to drinking-water supply safety management. This
approach is applicable throughout the water supply, from catchment to
consumer. It has been proposed that the WSP approach be included in the next
edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality.
   There are many infectious problems associated with drinking-water in both
the developed and developing world (Hunter 1997). In developing countries,
drinking-water and sanitation-related diseases are among the major contributors
to disease burden (Prüss and Havelaar 2001). Even in developed nations,
                    Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                         133

outbreaks of waterborne disease are regularly reported, at least in those
countries that have disease surveillance systems (Stanwell-Smith et al. 2002).
Evidence is even accumulating of significant disease related to drinking-water in
those countries that rarely report outbreaks as they do not have adequate
surveillance systems (Beaudeau 2002; Dangendorf et al. 2002). One could
conclude that while there are still so many proven public health concerns with
drinking-water supplies needing to be addressed, theoretical, unproven and rare
health effects from HPC bacteria do not require public health action.


7.6 REFERENCES
Allen, D.M. and Hartman, B.J. (2000) Acinetobacter species. In Principles and Practice of
     Infectious Diseases, 5th edn (ed. G.L. Mandell, J.E. Bennett and R. Dolin), pp. 2339–
     2342, Churchill Livingstone, Philadelphia, PA.
Bassett, D.C.J., Stokes, K.J. and Thomas, W.R.G. (1970) Wound infection with Pseudomonas
     multivorans. Lancet i, 1188–1191.
Beaudeau, P. (2002) Time series analyses. In Drinking Water and Infectious Disease:
     Establishing the Links (ed. P.R. Hunter, M. Waite and E. Ronchi), pp. 155–163, CRC
     Press, Boca Raton, FL.
Bennett, S.N., Peterson, D.E., Johnson, D.R., Hall, W.N., Robinson-Dunn, B. and Dietrich, S.
     (1994) Bronchoscopy-associated Mycobacterium xenopi pseudoinfections. Am. J. Respir.
     Crit. Care Med. 150, 245–250.
Bert, F., Maubec, E., Bruneau, B., Berry, P. and Lambert-Zechovsky, N. (1998) Multi-
     resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa outbreak associated with contaminated tap water in a
     neurosurgery intensive care unit. J. Hosp. Infect. 39, 53–62.
Bitton, G. (1994) Wastewater Microbiology. Wiley, New York.
Bradford-Hill, A. (1965) The environment and disease: association or causation? Proc. R. Soc.
     Med. 58, 295–300.
Buck, A.C. and Cooke, E.M. (1969) The fate of ingested Pseudomonas aeruginosa in normal
     persons. J. Med. Microbiol. 2, 521–525.
Burke, V., Robinson, J., Gracey, M., Peterson, D. and Partridge, K. (1984) Isolation of
     Aeromonas hydrophila from a metropolitan water supply: seasonal correlation with
     clinical isolates. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 48, 361–366.
Calderon, R.L. (1988) Bacteria Colonizing Point-of-Entry Granular Activated Carbon Filters
     and their Relationship to Human Health. EPA CR-813978-01-0, US Environmental
     Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Calderon, R.L. and Mood, E.W. (1991) Bacteria Colonizing Point-of-Use Granular Activated
     Carbon Filters and their Relationship to Human Health. EPA CR-811904-01-0, US
     Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Chadha, R., Grover, M., Sharma, A., Lakshmy, A., Deb, M., Kumar, A. and Mehta, G. (1998)
     An outbreak of post-surgical wound infections due to Mycobacterium abscessus. Pediatr.
     Surg. Int. 13, 406–410.
Chalmers, R.M., Elwin, K., Reilly, W.J., Irvine, H., Thomas, A.L. and Hunter, P.R. (2002)
     Cryptosporidium in farmed animals: the detection of a novel isolate in sheep. Int. J.
     Parasitol. 32, 21–26.
134                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Coleman, M.E. and Marks, H.M. (1999) Qualitative and quantitative risk assessment. Food
     Control 10, 289–297.
Crane, L.R., Tagle, L.C. and Palutke, W.A. (1981) Outbreak of Pseudomonas paucimobilis in
     an intensive care facility. J. Am. Med. Assoc. 246, 985–987.
Dangendorf, F., Herbst, S., Exner, M. and Kistemann, T. (2002) Geographical information
     systems. In Drinking Water and Infectious Disease: Establishing the Links (ed. P.R.
     Hunter, M. Waite and E. Ronchi), pp. 143–153, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL.
Doring, G., Ulrich, M., Muller, W., Bitzer, J., Schmidt-Koenig, L., Munst, L., Grupp, H.,
     Wolz, C., Stern, M. and Botzenhart, K. (1991) Generation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa
     aerosols during handwashing from contaminated sink drains, transmission to hands of
     hospital personnel, and its prevention by use of a new heating device. Zentralbl. Hyg.
     Umweltmed. 191, 494–505.
Doring, G., Horz, M., Ortelt, J., Grupp, H. and Wolz, C. (1993) Molecular epidemiology of
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an intensive care unit. Epidemiol. Infect. 110, 427–436.
du Moulin, G.C. (1979) Airway colonization by Flavobacterium in an intensive care unit. J.
     Clin. Microbiol. 10, 155–160.
du Moulin, G.C., Stottmeier, K.D., Pelletier, P.A., Tsang, A.Y. and Hedley-Whyte, J. (1988)
     Concentration of Mycobacterium avium by hospital hot water systems. J. Am. Med.
     Assoc. 260, 1599–1601.
Ferley, J.P., Zmirou, D., Collin, J.F. and Charrel, M. (1986) Etude longitudinale des risques
     liés à la consommation d’eaux non conformes aux normes bactériologiques. Rev.
     Epidemiol. Santé Publique 34, 89–99.
Ferroni, A., Nguyen, L., Pron, B., Quesne, G., Brusset, M.C. and Berche, P. (1998) Outbreak
     of nosocomial urinary tract infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a paediatric
     surgical unit associated with tap-water contamination. J. Hosp. Infect. 39, 301–307.
George, S.E., Kohan, M.J., Walsh, D.B. and Claxton, L.D. (1989) Acute colonisation of
     polychlorinated biphenyl-degrading pseudomonads in the mouse intestinal tract:
     comparison of single and multiple exposures. Environ. Toxicol. Chem. 8, 123–131.
Gruner, E., Kropec, A., Huebner, J., Altwegg, M. and Daschner, F. (1993) Ribotyping of
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains isolated from surgical intensive care patients. J. Infect.
     Dis. 167, 1216–1220.
Haas, C.N., Rose, J.B. and Gerba, C.P. (1999) Quantitative Microbial Risk Assessment. John
     Wiley & Sons, New York.
Hänninen, M.-L. and Siitonen, A. (1995) Distribution of Aeromonas phenospecies and
     genospecies among strains isolated from water, foods or from human clinical samples.
     Epidemiol. Infect. 115, 39–50.
Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., van Silfhout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van der Kooij,
     D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with diarrhoea and from drinking
     water. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 72, 435–444.
Hellard, M.E., Sinclair, M.I., Forbes, A.B. and Fairley, C.K. (2001) A randomized blinded
     controlled trial investigating the gastrointestinal health effects of drinking water quality.
     Environ. Health Perspect. 109, 773–778.
Holcomb, D.L., Smith, M.A., Ware, G.O., Hung, Y.-C., Brackett, R.E. and Doyle, M.P.
     (1999) Comparison of six dose–response models for use with food-borne pathogens. Risk
     Anal. 19, 1091–1100.
Holmberg, S.D., Schell, W.L., Fanning, G.R., Wachsmuth, I.K., Hickman-Brenner, F.W.,
     Blake, P.A., Brenner, D.J. and Farmer, J.J., III (1986) Aeromonas intestinal infections in
     the United States. Ann. Intern. Med. 105, 683–689.
                    Epidemiological and risk assessment evidence                           135

Hoque, S.N., Graham, J., Kaufmann, M.E. and Tabaqchali, S. (2001) Chryseobacterium
     (Flavobacterium) meningosepticum outbreak associated with colonization of water taps
     in a neonatal intensive care unit. J. Hosp. Infect. 47, 188–192.
Horsburgh, C.R., Jr., Chin, D.P., Yajko, D.M., Hopewell, P.C., Nassos, P.S., Elkin, E.P.,
     Hadley, W.K., Stone, E.N., Simon, E.M., Gonzalez, P., Ostroff, S. and Reingold, A.L.
     (1994) Environmental risk factors for acquisition of Mycobacterium avium complex in
     persons with human immunodeficiency virus infection. J. Infect. Dis. 170, 362–367.
Hunter, P.R. (1997) Waterborne Disease: Epidemiology and Ecology. Wiley, Chichester.
Kuijper, E.J., Bol, P., Peeters, M.F., Steigerwalt, A.G., Zanen, H.C. and Brenner, D.J. (1989)
     Clinical and epidemiological aspects of members of Aeromonas hybridization groups
     isolated from human feces. J. Clin. Microbiol. 27, 1531–1537.
Kuritsky, J.N., Bullen, M.G., Broome, C.V., Silcox, V.A., Good, R.C. and Wallace, R.J., Jr.
     (1983) Sternal wound infections and endocarditis due to organisms of the
     Mycobacterium fortuitum complex. Ann. Intern. Med. 98, 938–939.
Lalande, V., Barbut, F., Varnerot, A., Febvre, M., Nesa, D., Wadel, S., Vincent, V. and Petit,
     J.C. (2001) Pseudo-outbreak of Mycobacterium gordonae associated with water from
     refrigerated fountains. J. Hosp. Infect. 48, 76–79.
Levin, M.H., Olson, B., Nathan, C., Kabins, S.A. and Weinstein, R.A. (1984) Pseudomonas in
     the sinks in an intensive care unit: relation to patients. J. Clin. Pathol. 37, 424–427.
Marks, H.M., Coleman, M.E., Lin, C.T.J. and Roberts, T. (1998) Topics in microbial risk
     assessment: Dynamic flow tree process. Risk Anal. 18, 309–328.
Orsi, G.B., Mansi, A., Tomao, P., Chiarini, F. and Visca, P. (1994) Lack of association
     between clinical and environmental isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in hospital
     wards. J. Hosp. Infect. 27, 49–60.
Pankhurst, C.L. and Philpott-Howard, J. (1996) The environmental risk factors associated with
     medical and dental equipment in the transmission of Burkholderia (Pseudomonas)
     cepacia in cystic fibrosis patients. J. Hosp. Infect. 32, 249–255.
Payment, P. and Hunter, P.R. (2001) Endemic and epidemic infectious intestinal disease and
     its relation to drinking water. In Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health. Risk
     Assessment and Management for Water-related Infectious Disease (ed. L. Fewtrell and J.
     Bartram), pp. 61–88, IWA Publishing, London.
Payment, P., Franco, E., Richardson, L. and Siemiatycki, J. (1991a) Gastrointestinal health
     effects associated with the consumption of drinking water produced by point-of-use
     domestic reverse-osmosis filtration units. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57, 945–948.
Payment, P., Richardson, L., Siemiatycki, J., Dewar, R., Edwardes, M. and Franco, E. (1991b)
     A randomized trial to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal disease due to the consumption
     of drinking water meeting currently accepted microbiological standards. Am. J. Public
     Health 81, 703–708.
Payment, P., Siemiatycki, J., Richardson, L., Renaud, G., Franco, E. and Prévost, M. (1997) A
     prospective epidemiological study of gastrointestinal health effects due to the
     consumption of drinking water. Int. J. Environ. Health Res. 7, 5–31.
Picard, B. and Goullet, P. (1987) Seasonal prevalence of nosocomial Aeromonas hydrophila
     infection related to Aeromonas in hospital water. J. Hosp. Infect. 10, 152–155.
Pokrywka, M., Viazanko, K., Medvick, J., Knabe, S., McCool, S., Pasculle, A.W. and
     Dowling, J.N. (1993) A Flavobacterium meningosepticum outbreak among intensive
     care patients. Am. J. Infect. Control 21, 139–145.
136                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Pollack, M. (2000) Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In Principles and Practice of Infectious
     Diseases, 5th edn (ed. G.L. Mandell, J.E. Bennett and R. Dolin), pp. 2310–2335,
     Churchill Livingstone, Philadelphia, PA.
Prüss, A. and Havelaar, A. (2001) The global burden of disease study and applications in
     water, sanitation and hygiene. In Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health. Risk
     Assessment and Management for Water-related Infectious Disease (ed. L. Fewtrell and J.
     Bartram), pp. 43–59, IWA Publishing, London.
Ristola, M.A., von Reyn, C.F., Arbeit, R.D., Soini, H., Lumio, J., Ranki, A., Bühler, S.,
     Waddell, R., Tosteson, A.N., Falkinham, J.O., III and Sox, C.H. (1999) High rates of
     disseminated infection due to non-tuberculous mycobacteria among AIDS patients in
     Finland. J. Infect. 39, 61–67.
Rusin, P.A., Rose, J.B., Haas, C.N. and Gerba, C.P. (1997) Risk assessment of opportunistic
     bacterial pathogens in drinking water. Rev. Environ. Contam. Toxicol. 152, 57–83.
Sniadack, D.H., Ostroff, S.M., Karlix, M.A., Smithwick, R.W., Schwartz, B., Sprauer, M.A.,
     Silcox, V.A. and Good, R.C. (1993) A nosocomial pseudo-outbreak of Mycobacterium
     xenopi due to a contaminated potable water supply: lessons in prevention. Infect. Control
     Hosp. Epidemiol. 14, 636–641.
Stanwell-Smith, R., Andersson, Y. and Levy, D. (2002) National surveillance systems. In
     Drinking Water and Infectious Disease: Establishing the Links (ed. P.R. Hunter, M.
     Waite and E. Ronchi), CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL (in press).
Trautmann, M., Michalsky, T., Wiedeck, H., Radosavljevic, V. and Ruhnke, M. (2001) Tap
     water colonization with Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a surgical intensive care unit (ICU)
     and relation to Pseudomonas infections of ICU patients. Infect. Control Hosp. Epidemiol.
     22, 49–52.
Verweij, P.E., Meis, J.F., Christmann, V., Van der Bor, M., Melchers, W.J., Hilderink, B.G.
     and Voss, A. (1998) Nosocomial outbreak of colonization and infection with
     Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in preterm infants associated with contaminated tap
     water. Epidemiol. Infect. 120, 251–256.
Von Reyn, C.F., Maslow, J.N., Barber, T.W., Falkinham, J.O., III and Arbeit, R.D. (1994)
     Persistent colonisation of potable water as a source of Mycobacterium avium infection in
     AIDS. Lancet 343, 1137–1141.
Wallace, R.J., Jr., Brown, B.A. and Griffith, D.E. (1998) Nosocomial outbreaks/pseudo-
     outbreaks caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 52, 453–490.
Wheeler, J.G., Sethi, D., Cowden, J.M., Wall, P.G., Rodrigues, L.C., Tompkins, D.S., Hudson,
     M.J. and Roderick, P.J. (1999) Study of infectious intestinal disease in England: rates in
     the community, presenting to general practice, and reported to national surveillance. Br.
     Med. J. 318, 1046–1050.
WHO (2002) Aeromonas. In Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, Addendum:
     Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water, pp. 1–13, World Health Organization,
     Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
     Organization, Geneva.
Zmirou, D., Ferley, J.P., Collin, J.F., Charrel, M. and Berlin, J. (1987) A follow-up study of
     gastro-intestinal diseases related to bacteriologically substandard drinking water. Am. J.
     Public Health 77, 582–584.
8
Infections from HPC organisms in
drinking-water amongst the
immunocompromised
A. Glasmacher, S. Engelhart and M. Exner




8.1 INTRODUCTION
The primary concept of controlling the risk of infection from drinking-water for
human use (including applications like washing and showering) was founded on
epidemiological studies and risk assessments based on highly infectious
microbiological agents and a normal population. The growing number of
immunosuppressed patients, however, makes it necessary to develop new
concepts to protect these patients from infectious agents in drinking-water and
related installations. This chapter reviews these issues in relationship to
heterotrophic plate count (HPC) microorganisms in drinking-water.


 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
138                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

8.2 EPIDEMIOLOGY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF
    IMMUNODEFICIENCY
Unfortunately, there are few studies that give data on the incidence or
prevalence rates for immunocompromised patients. A report of the US
Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA 2000) gives an approximation of
the prevalence of immunosuppressed patients, which sums to approximately
0.83% of the general population. However, HIV/AIDS is much more common
in other parts of the world (Table 8.1).
Table 8.1. Subpopulations with a compromised immune system (US EPA 2000;
UNAIDS 2002)
                                                            Estimated %
                                             Number of           of
                       Subpopulation         individuals     population     Year
USA                    HIV/AIDS                900 000          0.03        2001
                       Cancer treatment       1 854 000         0.80        1992
                       Organ transplant         17 000          0.01        1994
Subsaharan Africa      HIV/AIDS              28 500 000         4.50        2001
South and South-east                                                        2001
                       HIV/AIDS               5 600 000         0.28
Asia
Eastern Europe and                                                          2001
                       HIV/AIDS               1 000 000         0.25
Central Asia
Western Europe         HIV/AIDS                550 000          0.01        2001
Latin America          HIV/AIDS               1 500 000         0.03        2001

   It should be expected that the prevalence will rise further, because of the
increased survival of cancer patients over the last two decades, the increased
intensity of chemotherapy over the same period, the rising rates of solid organ
and haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the success of supportive therapy
(e.g., empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy and transfusion of blood cell
components have greatly improved our ability to manage severe
immunosuppression) and HIV/AIDS. Although no epidemiological models are
available to us, it is most probable that the incidence will further increase in the
future (Kaplan et al. 1998).
   The various causes of immunodeficiency lead to different disturbances in
immune functions (Duncan and Edberg 1995; Calandra 2000). The most
relevant defence functions are listed in Table 8.2.
                   Immunocompromised patients and HPC bacteria                              139


Table 8.2. Selected defence functions in immunocompromised patients (modified from
Duncan and Edberg 1995; Calandra 2000)
                   Host defence disturbance      Compromised effect/function
                             Alterations of anatomic barriers
Mucous             reduction of IgA              microbe binding
membranes          mucositis                     all cell functions, structural integrity
Gastrointestinal   elevation of stomach pH       killing bacteria
tract              reduction of peristaltic flow elimination of bacteria
                   change in endogenous flora colonization resistance
                   reduction of bile salts       disruption of bacterial membrane
                                      Immune system
Innate             reduction of complement       activation of phagocytes
immunity                                         opsonization of bacteria
                                                 membrane attack complex
                   neutropenia                   phagocytosis and killing of bacteria
                                                 recruitment of inflammatory cells
                   monocytopenia                 phagocytosis and killing of bacteria
                                                 induction of inflammatory response
                   reduction of natural killer   killing of antibody-coated cells
                   cells
Adaptive           reduction of T lymphocytes activation of macrophages
immunity                                         activation of B lymphocytes
                                                 cytotoxicity
                   hypogammaglobulinaemia neutralization of pathogens/toxins
                                                 opsonization of bacteria
                                                 complement activation


8.3 THE SETTING OF CARE FOR
    IMMUNOCOMPROMISED PATIENTS
In most European countries, severely immunocompromised patients were
traditionally cared for in the controlled environment of specialized hospitals for
prolonged periods of time. Now, a lack of capacity and a change of financing
systems have reduced and will continue to reduce the duration of hospital care.
A rising proportion of more severely immunocompromised patients are now
managed as outpatients and are exposed to the infectious risks of their home
environment. These risks, however, are much less known or controlled than
those in the hospital. However, no systematic research has been carried out to
define the risks and the necessary precautions for the ambulatory care of these
patients. In one of the very few attempts to clarify this issue, our group has
140                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

recently reviewed the available evidence on infectious risks and prevention
strategies for ambulatory immunocompromised patients (Kaufmann et al. 2002).
In less developed health care systems, home care is also widely practised and
will remain a necessity for many patients.


8.4 INFECTIOUS RISKS FOR AMBULATORY
    IMMUNOCOMPROMISED PATIENTS
Water is only one of the infectious risks to ambulatory patients. Other important
risk factors are food, air and household contacts. Specific risk situations for
infections from drinking-water in ambulatory immunocompromised patients are
drinking itself, accidental swallowing during daily dental care, mucosal lesions
during tooth care, aspiration of aerosols during showers and the formation of
reservoirs in bathroom utilities (e.g., toothbrush, showerheads, etc.). These risks
are modified by the bacterial contamination of the drinking-water on one side
and more or less appropriate handling of bathroom installations and washing
utilities on the other side. Table 8.3 lists the more important microorganisms in
drinking-water that may cause waterborne infections.
Table 8.3. Important microorganisms in drinking-water causing waterborne infections in
immunocompromised patients
Microorganism group                 Species
Gram-positive cocci                 Enterococcus faecalis
                                    Enterococcus faecium
Intracellular bacteria              Listeria monocytogenes
                                    Salmonella spp.
                                    Legionella pneumophila
Gram-negative bacilli               Escherichia coli
                                    Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Fungi                               Candida spp.
                                    Aspergillus spp.
                                    Fusarium spp.
Other microorganisms                Mycobacterium avium complex


8.5 FUNGAL INFECTIONS FROM WATER SYSTEMS
There is considerable debate as to whether Aspergillus spp. infections are
transmitted by water (Graybill 2001). Anaissie and his group have recovered
Aspergillus and Fusarium conidiae in the hospital water system, and they
propose that invasive pulmonary infections occur when aerosols are inhaled
while showering (Anaissie and Costa 2001; Anaissie et al. 2001). Others accept
                 Immunocompromised patients and HPC bacteria                          141

these findings only in part, as it should not be ignored that many invasive fungal
infections occur from endogenous or airborne sources (Hajjeh and Warnock
2001). However, this phenomenon did not receive much attention before
Anaissie’s observations, and the prognosis of invasive fungal infections is so
poor that any reasonable attempt should be made to prevent them.


8.6 RISK ASSESSMENT OF OPPORTUNISTIC
    BACTERIAL PATHOGENS
Most of the heterotrophic bacteria in drinking-water are not human pathogens.
However, HPC bacteria in drinking-water may include isolates from the
following genera that may be pathogenic to immunocompromised hosts:
Pseudomonas spp., Acinetobacter spp., Moraxella spp., Xanthomonas spp. and
different fungi. Other non-HPC microorganisms comprise Legionellae,
Mycobacteriae and Cryptosporidiae.
   In a risk assessment analysis, a comprehensive study on this topic analysed
the probability of infection from drinking-water (Rusin et al. 1997).
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia are
major causes of hospital-acquired infections with a high mortality rate.
Legionella pneumophila causes 4–20% of cases of community-acquired
pneumonia and has been ranked as the second or third most frequent cause of
pneumonia requiring hospitalization. The number of cases of pulmonary disease
associated with Mycobacterium avium was rapidly increasing until the highly
active antiretroviral therapy became available in 1996 and is now constantly
declining. Moraxella spp. can cause infections of the eye and upper respiratory
tract. The oral infectious doses determined in animal and human test subjects are
shown in Table 8.4 (according to Rusin et al. 1997).
Table 8.4. Infectious doses and frequency of isolation in drinking-water (modified from
Rusin et al. 1997)
                                                          Frequency of isolation in
Bacteria                           Infectious dose           drinking-water (%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa                 108–109                     <1–24
Aeromonas hydrophila                    >1010                       1–27
Mycobacterium avium complex            104–107                     <1–50
Xanthomonas maltophilia                106–109                      <1–2
Moraxella spp.                            ?                        10–80
Legionella pneumophila                   105                        3–33
Acinetobacter spp.                     106–108                      5–38
142                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   The infectious dose of an opportunistic pathogen is lower for
immunocompromised subjects or those receiving antibiotic medication (which
is the case in many immunocompromised patients for prophylactic or
therapeutic reasons). These data suggest that drinking-water could bear a risk of
infection with some of these bacteria. The risk characterization in the study of
Rusin et al. (1997) showed that the highest risk of infection from oral ingestion,
9 × 10–2, was predicted at high levels of exposure to Pseudomonas. This higher
risk was predicted only for individuals on antibiotics. Overall, the evidence
suggests that some specific members of HPC bacteria that may be found in
drinking-water may be causative agents of both hospital- and community-
acquired infections in immunocompromised patients. Questions relating to
Legionella infections are dealt with in a forthcoming WHO publication (WHO,
in revision).


8.7 RISK ASSESSMENT FOR INFECTION FROM WATER
The risk of infection from opportunistic pathogens results from a dynamic
interaction between microbe and host (Duncan and Edberg 1995):

                  [number of microbes] × [virulence factor of microbes]
Risk of disease = 
                  [specific immunological status of host target organ]

   Some studies have compared exposure to bacteria from water and from food
and have shown that many more bacteria are taken up from food (Wadhwa et al.
2002).
   While the ingestion of properly maintained piped water does appear to cause
infections only rarely, unknown risks may arise from in-house water
installations (e.g., warm water tanks, showerheads) and medical devices, like
home care inhalation devices, dental units, etc., which can give rise to a
considerable growth of bacteria before use. Several studies have shown that a
high bacterial burden may result if these devices are not tightly controlled and
scrupulously disinfected (Exner et al. 1981, 1982, 1987).
   Moreover, little is known about the risk of infection by inhalation of water
aerosols — which is the most important route of infection for Legionella
pneumophila — at home. Also, Mycobacterium avium complex infections can
be transmitted by this route (Mansfield and Lackner 1997). Infections from
other HPC bacteria through this route have not been found in smaller studies
(see chapter 7). Clearly, more research is needed here.
                Immunocompromised patients and HPC bacteria                          143

   In general, epidemiological studies have failed to demonstrate infections
from HPC microorganisms in the general population (see chapter 7). However,
targeted studies in severely immunocompromised patients are lacking.


8.8 STAGES OF IMMUNOSUPPRESSION AND
    APPROPRIATE PROTECTION MEASURES
Although empirical data are lacking for many questions, our working group at the
German Robert-Koch-Institute, “Hygienic measures in immunocompromised
patients,” has attempted to define a classification of immunocompromised states and
corresponding preventive measures. Four groups of immunocompromised patients are
defined (Table 8.5) (Engelhart et al. 2001). The respective protection measures for
these patients are shown in Table 8.6.
Table 8.5. Proposed definitions of protection levels for immunocompromised patients
(Engelhart et al. 2001)
Protection level I: Mild immunosuppression
•    Acute or chronic leukaemia, malignant lymphoma, childhood histiocystosis X
     under maintenance therapy without neutropenia
•    Solid tumours (within six months of chemotherapy)
•    Long-term corticosteroid therapy with <20 mg/day prednisone or equivalent
•    Autologous stem cell transplantation (within six months of discharge)
Protection level II: Moderate immunosuppression
•    Acute or chronic leukaemia, malignant lymphoma, childhood histiocystosis X,
     solid tumours under intensive treatment (expected duration of neutropenia <500/µl
     for ≤10 days)
•    Long-term corticosteroid therapy with ≥20 mg/day prednisone or equivalent
•    Solid organ transplantation after intensive treatment phase
•    AIDS with a count of CD4+ cells less than 200/µl
Protection level III: Severe immunosuppression
•    Acute or chronic leukaemia, malignant lymphoma, childhood histiocystosis X,
     solid tumours under intensive treatment (expected duration of neutropenia <500/µl
     for >10 days)
•    Solid organ transplantation under intensive treatment phase (induction or rejection
     therapy)
•    Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (first 6–12 months after engraftment)
•    AIDS with a count of CD4+ cells less than 200/µl and an additional factor of
     immunosuppression (e.g., neutropenia, corticosteroids)
Protection level IV: Extreme immunosuppression
•    Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (until engraftment)
144                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Table 8.6. Proposed protection measures to prevent drinking-water-borne infections in
immunocompromised patients (Engelhart et al. 2001). These measures are aimed not
only at HPC bacteria but also at other potentially more pathogenic microorganisms, such
as fungi, Legionellae, Cryptosporidiae and M. avium complex.
 Protection level I: Mild immunosuppression
 •    Avoid any circumstances with elevated infection risks (like drinking water from
      uncontrolled sources)
 Protection level II: Moderate immunosuppression
 •    Drinking-water should have an additional antimicrobial barrier to tap water
 •    Bathroom installations should be controlled for bacterial reservoirs
 Protection level III: Severe immunosuppression
 •    Any water for human use should have a very low bacterial count (use water
      filters/controlled carbonated water)
 •    Strict control of bath installation and water for showering (showering to be
      avoided if no control possible)
 Protection level IV: Extreme immunosuppression
 •    Only sterile fluids for drinking, mouth care and washing allowed


8.9 THE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE
Immunocompromised patients may be regarded as “sentinel chickens” for
infection control problems (Rubin 1987). Infections that do not occur in healthy
persons due to the low pathogenicity or concentration of the microorganisms are
more likely to occur in these patients. However, in the absence of profound
epidemiological data and a clear definition of the degree of immunosuppression,
the risk of infection from water consumption may not be exactly quantified. In
our opinion, this necessitates the application of the precautionary principle
(Mossel and Struijk 2002) — which is common in consumer protection
elsewhere — and the formulation of consensus-based recommendations in order
to protect patients with severe immunosuppression. Further research should be
focused on the risks of the use of water in the home environment, particularly
for severely immunocompromised patients.


8.10      REFERENCES
Anaissie, E.J. and Costa, S.F. (2001) Nosocomial aspergillosis is waterborne. Clin. Infect. Dis.
    33, 1546–1548.
Anaissie, E.J., Kuchar, R.T., Rex, J.H., Francesconi, A., Kasai, M., Muller, F.M., Lozano-
    Chiu, M., Summerbell, R.C., Dignani, M.C., Chanock, S.J. and Walsh, T.J. (2001)
    Fusariosis associated with pathogenic fusarium species colonization of a hospital water
    system: a new paradigm for the epidemiology of opportunistic mold infections. Clin.
    Infect. Dis. 33, 1871–1878.
                   Immunocompromised patients and HPC bacteria                              145

Calandra, T. (2000) Practical guide to host defense mechanisms and the predominant
     infections encountered in immunocompromised patients. In Management of Infections in
     Immunocompromised Patients (ed. M.P. Glauser and P.A. Pizzo), pp. 3–16, W.B.
     Saunders Co., London.
Duncan, H.E. and Edberg, S.C. (1995) Host–microbe interaction in the gastrointestinal tract.
     Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 21, 85–100.
Engelhart, S., Glasmacher, A., Kaufmann, F. and Exner, M. (2001) Protecting vulnerable
     groups in the home: the interface between institutions and the domestic setting. J. Infect.
     43, 57–59.
Exner, M., Haun, F. and Kocikowski, R. (1981) [Dental units as sources of contamination by
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa.] Dtsch. Zahnarztl. Z. 36, 819–824 (in German).
Exner, M., Vogel, F. and Rost, H.D. (1983) [Microorganisms in home-care inhalation
     devices.] Dtsch. Med. Wochenschr. 108, 12–17 (in German).
Exner, M., Wegmann, U. and Haun, F. (1987) [Infection control measures in dentistry.]
     Zahnarztl. Mitt. 77, 1841–1849 (in German).
Graybill, J.R. (2001) Aspergillosis: From the breeze or from the bucket. Clin. Infect. Dis. 33,
     1545.
Hajjeh, R.A. and Warnock, D.W. (2001) Counterpoint: invasive aspergillosis and the
     environment — rethinking our approach to prevention. Clin. Infect. Dis. 33, 1549–1552.
Kaplan, J.E., Roselle, G. and Sepkowitz, K. (1998) Opportunistic infections in
     immunodeficient populations. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 4, 421–422.
Kaufmann, F., Engelhart, S., Glasmacher, A. and Exner, M. (2002) Infektionsrisiken und
     Präventionsstrategien im häuslichen Umfeld des immunsupprimierten hämatologisch-
     onkologischen Patienten. Med. Klin. 97, 22–29.
Mansfield, K.G. and Lackner, A.A. (1997) Simian immunodeficiency virus-inoculated
     macaques acquire Mycobacterium avium from potable water during AIDS. J. Infect. Dis.
     175, 184–187.
Mossel, D.A. and Struijk, C.B. (2002) Assessment of the microbial integrity, sensu G.S.
     Wilson, of piped and bottled drinking water in the condition as ingested. In Proceedings
     of the NSF International/WHO Symposium on HPC Bacteria in Drinking Water —
     Public Health Implications? (ed. J. Bartram, J. Cotruvo and C. Fricker), pp. 363–376,
     NSF International, Ann Arbor, MI.
Rubin, R.H. (1987) The compromised host as sentinel chicken [editorial]. N. Engl. J. Med.
     317, 1151–1153.
Rusin, P.A., Rose, J.B., Haas, C.N. and Gerba, C.P. (1997) Risk assessment of opportunistic
     bacterial pathogens in drinking water. Rev. Environ. Contam. Toxicol. 152, 57–83.
UNAIDS (2002) Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic. Joint United Nations Programme
     on HIV/AIDS, Geneva.
US EPA (2000) EPA Studies on Sensitive Subpopulations and Drinking Water Contaminants.
     US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.
Wadhwa, S.G., Kahled, G.H. and Edberg, S.C. (2002) Comparative microbial character of
     consumed food and drinking water. Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 28, 249–279.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
     Organization, Geneva.
9
Methods to identify and enumerate
frank and opportunistic bacterial
pathogens in water and biofilms
N.J. Ashbolt




9.1 INTRODUCTION
The vast range of heterotrophic plate count (HPC)-detected bacteria are not
considered to be frank or opportunistic pathogens, as discussed elsewhere in this
book (chapters 4–7) and in previous reviews (Nichols et al. 1995; LeChevallier
et al. 1999; Velazquez and Feirtag 1999; Szewzyk et al. 2000). The purpose of
this chapter, however, is to highlight important methodological issues when
considering “traditional” and emerging procedures for detecting bacterial
pathogens in both water and biofilms, rather than giving specific methods for
many pathogens.


 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water              147

   The focus of this book is on heterotrophic bacteria; nevertheless, many of the
methods discussed can also be directed to other (viral and protozoan) frank and
opportunistic pathogens. Furthermore, a number of heterotrophs are thought to
cause disease via the expression of virulence factors (Nichols et al. 1995), such
as the emerging bacterial superantigens (McCormick et al. 2001). Hence,
pathogen detection is not necessarily one based on particular species, but may
take the approach of identifying virulence gene(s), preferably by their active
expression (possibly including a range of different genera of bacteria; see
virulence factors in Table 9.1). As a consequence, many species contain
pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains, so ways to “fingerprint” strains of
importance (from the environment and human cases) are also discussed in detail.
Table 9.1. Virulence factors and gene targets to identify waterborne genera1
Pathogen                  Virulence factors                      DNA probe2      PCR2
Aeromonas                 Cytotoxic toxin, cytotonic toxin,      Aer
hydrophila/A. sobria      enterotoxin, aerolysin asoA,
                          protease, haemolysin, haemagglu-
                          tinin, acetylcholinesterase
Campylobacter             Cytolethal distending toxin
jejuni/C. coli/C. lari
Citrobacter freundii      SLT                                    SLT2            +
Clostridium difficile     Toxin A
Clostridium               Cytotoxic enterotoxin
perfringens
Diffusely adherent E.     DA                                     Daa
coli DEAC
Enteroaggregative E.      EAST1, AggA                            astA,           -
coli EAggEC                                                      EAggEC
Enterohaemorrhagic E.     Vero cytotoxins (O157, H7,             VT1, VT2,       +
coli VTEC                 intimin & Shiga-like), AE lesions      VT2 variants,
                                                                 eae
Enteroinvasive E. coli    Invasion                               Ial, paB        +
EIEC
Enteropathogenic E.       Bundle forming pili, AE lesions        AEF, paB,       +
coli EPEC                 94 kDa OMP                             eae
Enterotoxigenic E. coli   Heat-stable enterotoxin STA, STB,      STA1, STA2,     +
ETEC                      Heat-labile enterotoxin LT             STB, LT1,
                                                                 LT2
Klebsiella pneumoniae     Heat-stable enterotoxin ST             ST              +
Pseudomonas               Exotoxin A
aeruginosa
148                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Pathogen                  Virulence factors                   DNA probe2        PCR2
Salmonella spp.                                               spvABC
Shigella spp.             Shiga toxin gene stx, aerobactin,   stx(1), stx(2),   +
                          Group-specific O antigen,           or stx(3)
                          superoxide dismutase sodB,
                          invasion genes (virB, ipaABCD,
                          ippI, invGF, invAJKH),
                          intracellular spread gene virG,
                          plasmid antigen gene (ipaH) and
                          expression genes (malA, galU,
                          glpK, kcpA)
Vibrio cholerae           Cholera toxin                       cholera           +
                                                              toxins A & B,
                                                              toxR, toxS,
                                                              toxT, tcpP,
                                                              ctx and tcpA
Vibrio                    Haemolysin                          thermolabile      +
parahaemolyticus                                              haemolysin
                                                              (tlh)
Yersinia enterocolitica   Heat-stable enterotoxin yst,                          +
                          lipopolysaccharide O side-chain
1
  Adapted from Nichols et al. (1995).
2
  See section 9.6.4 on DNA probes and PCR primers.

   To test for specific strains or groups of pathogens, it is important to note that
most microbiological procedures consist of the following common method
steps: concentration/enrichment, detection and often quantification. Unlike
enteric viral or parasitic protozoan pathogens, however, where a concentration
of only a few organisms per 100 litres is of potential concern (Rose and Gerba
1991), many of the heterotrophic bacterial pathogens are required in vast
numbers to cause disease, with some important exceptions (Escherichia coli
O157, Shigella) (Kothary and Babu 2001). Therefore, an extensive
concentration step may be unnecessary for detecting significant heterotrophic
bacterial pathogens.
   Whether to test the water or solid surface slime (biofilm) has received limited
discussion in the literature (Szewzyk et al. 2000), although recent work using
bacteriophage models has highlighted some important reasons why biofilm
testing should be considered (Storey and Ashbolt 2002). For example, biofilms
have been shown to sequester phages (and presumably heterotrophic pathogens),
theoretically reducing relatively high concentrations in the initial water phase of
a distribution system to non-detectable concentrations over short distances (a
few kilometres). Hence, sporadic erosion/sloughing of biofilms may result in
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water        149

health concerns to consumers receiving the distribution water; concerns that
would probably be masked if they relied only on water testing.
   Lastly, any work on the identification and enumeration of pathogens needs to
be put into the context of an overall risk management approach, rather than sole
reliance on end-of-pipe testing (Fewtrell and Bartram 2001). Therefore, the
methods described below need to be considered within the context of why and
where specific pathogens are being tested.


9.2 WATER OR BIOFILM SAMPLING FOR PATHOGENS
Health-related microbial testing has been based on examining water samples for
over 100 years (Ashbolt et al. 2001). Given that pathogens may accumulate and
even grow in biofilms associated with piped or bottled waters (Jones and
Bradshaw 1996; Barbeau et al. 1998; Buswell et al. 1998; Falkinham et al.
2001), it is surprising how little effort has been focused on developing routine
methods for biofilm sampling. In essence, there is no standard biofilm procedure
in the water industry.
    Methods have, however, been developed to qualitatively and quantitatively
assess biofilm growth in situ with experimental coupon devices, including
Modified Robbins Devices (MRDs), and various annual reactors (Percival et al.
2000). MRDs, developed from an earlier Robbins device (McCoy and Costerton
1982), contain replaceable coupon sampling surfaces, which may make use of a
wide range of substrata. MRDs have been used for a range of medical, industrial
and environmental applications (Johnston and Jones 1995) and, more recently,
water distribution pipes (Kalmbach et al. 1997; Ollos et al. 1998). Nonetheless,
until both the importance of biofilm sampling is recognized and inexpensive
methods are developed, pathogen sampling is likely to continue with a heavy
bias towards the liquid phase.
    In the absence of biofilm pathogen testing protocols, surrogates that indicate
biofilm development — and therefore potential for increased health risk — have
been instigated for some time and include deteriorating loss in disinfection
residual and increasing HPC numbers, ATP levels and/or nitrite concentrations
(in chloraminated systems) (Cunliffe 1991). All of these would be expected in
biologically unstable water — that is, water that is high in total organic carbon
or assimilable organic carbon, warm water, and during periods of stagnant or
low flow (LeChevallier et al. 1996; van der Kooij 1999).
150                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

9.3 CULTURE-BASED (TRADITIONAL) METHODS
The traditional approach for drinking-water microbiology has been the
monitoring of water quality using microbial indicator organisms, including so-
called “total heterotrophs,” by culture in artificial media (Standing Committee
of Analysts 1994; WHO 1996; APHA et al. 1998). Such tests are relatively
inexpensive and reproducible, yet we know they severely underestimate the total
number of heterotrophic bacteria by up to several orders of magnitude (Amann
et al. 1995; Sartory and Watkins 1999), even with extended incubation times
and changes in temperature (Elzanfaly et al. 1998).
   It has long been recognized that artificial culture media lead to only a very
small fraction (0.01–1%) of the total viable bacteria present being detected
(Watkins and Xiangrong 1997). Furthermore, introduced bacteria progressively
deteriorate in aqueous environments, with some initially able to be grown on
selective media (described in Table 9.2), then only on non-selective media (so-
called stressed cells), and finally becoming non-culturable (so-called viable but
non-culturable [VBNC] if still capable of causing infection) (McFeters 1990;
Colwell et al. 1996; Cervantes et al. 1997). Therefore, despite considerable
financial/legal costs associated with culture-based results (and associated quality
control methods provided in Table 9.2), application of selective agents in any
culture-based method, including those for pathogens, is likely to lead to
considerable underestimation of the actual number of potentially infective
bacteria present.
   One method to overcome the limitation of artificial culture media is the use
of living host cells (cell culture) to grow pathogens. Good examples are the co-
culture of Mycobacterium avium or Legionella pneumophila, human pathogens
associated with domestic water supplies, with free-living amoebae, such as
Acanthamoeba polyphaga. Growth may occur by different means, as
demonstrated by electron microscopy, with L. pneumophila residing within the
cysts and M. avium within the outer walls of the double-walled cysts of A.
polyphaga (Steinert et al. 1998). Furthermore, these locations may provide a
reservoir for the bacteria when environmental conditions become unfavourable
and allow for inactive pathogens to accumulate with amoebae/cysts in biofilms
(Brown and Barker 1999). In addition to various amoebae, the nematode
Caenorhabditis elegans may prove to be a suitable host for detecting a range of
pathogens (Labrousse et al. 2000).


9.4 CONCENTRATION OF TARGET BACTERIA
Heterotrophic bacteria are traditionally concentrated/trapped on membrane
filters with porosities of 0.22–0.45 µm or enriched by selective growth. In some
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water              151

Table 9.2. International standardization of methods for microbiological drinking-water
analyses1
Target            ISO         Culturing technique,
organisms         standard    medium/media and incubation           Observations
Legionella        ISO         Spread plating on GVPC medium         With and without
species           11731       with antibiotics at 36 °C for 10      sample
                              days; subculturing on BYCE and        pretreatment;
                              BCYE-cys; serological testing of      background
                              isolates growing on BYCE but not      growth interferes;
                              on BCYE-cys; identification by        antibiotics and
                              fatty acids, isoprenoid quinones,     identification
                              indirect or direct                    increase costs
                              immunofluorescent antibody assay,
                              slide or latex bead agglutination,
                              genus-specific monoclonal
                              antibody or enzyme-linked
                              immunosorbent assay
Legionella        (ISO        A screening method based on
species           11731-2)    membrane filtration
Pseudomonas       [ISO        Membrane filtration on Drake’s        Atypical isolates
aeruginosa        8360-2]     medium 19, incubation at 37 °C for    should be further
                              2 days; for confirmation              identified; material
                              subculturing on milk agar at 42 °C    not expensive but
                              for 1 day (growth, casein             labour costs
                              hydrolysis, fluorescence and          significant
                              pyocyanine)
Pseudomonas       [ISO        Liquid culturing in Drake’s           Atypical isolates
aeruginosa        8360-1]     medium 10 at 37 °C for 2 days; for    should be further
                              confirmation subculturing on milk     identified; material
                              agar at 42 °C for 1 day (growth,      not expensive, but
                              casein hydrolysis, fluorescence and   labour costs
                              pyocyanine)                           significant
Salmonella        [ISO        Liquid pre-enrichment in buffered     S. typhi needs
species           6340]       peptone water at 36 °C for 1 day,     another pre-
                              enrichment in modified Rappaport-     enrichment
                              Vassiliadis broth at 42 °C for 1      medium; time and
                              day, selection on brilliant green/    many media
                              phenol red lactose and xylose         needed, which
                              lysine deoxycholate agar at 36 °C     increases costs
                              for 1 day and optionally on
                              bismuth sulfite agar at 36 °C for 2
                              days; isolation of typical colonies
                              for confirmation using biochemical
                              and serological tests
152                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Target              ISO         Culturing technique,
organisms           standard    medium/media and incubation            Observations
Staphylococci       CEN/TC      Membrane filtration                    Recently started
                    230                                                activity
Total               ISO 6222    Pour plate technique, yeast extract    All
heterotrophs                    agar, incubation at 36 °C for 2        microorganisms
                                days and at 22 °C for 3 days           are not expected to
                                                                       generate colonies;
                                                                       changes in cfu
                                                                       relevant; cheap
                                                                       method
 Evaluation of     ISO 7704 Comparison of relative recoveries
 membrane filters               for a method
 Evaluation of     ISO 9998 Comparison of relative recoveries
 colony count                   for a method
 media
 Validation of     (ISO TR      Characterization of methods and
 microbiological 13843)         confirmation of the detection of the
 cultivation                    target organism
 methods
 Equivalence       (ISO         Comparison of relative recoveries
 testing of        17994)       of target organisms between
 microbiological                different methods
 cultivation
 methods
1
  ISO numbers refer to a published standard, ( ) standard proposal not yet published or [ ]
published standard under revision, taken from Köster et al. (2002).

instances, as for the motile Campylobacter-like organisms, motile species are
first selected for by active movement through a larger-porosity filter (e.g., 0.6
µm) directly over the enrichment medium (Steele and McDermott 1984).
Membrane filtration is also recommended as the concentration step prior to
direct molecular identification (see below). It should be recognized that there are
many bacterial species known to be able to pass through 0.45-µm membranes,
some of which may well be opportunistic pathogens, such as various
mycobacteria (Marolda et al. 1999) (hence the recommendation to use 0.2-µm
membranes). Furthermore, by definition, bacteria that are <0.3 µm in diameter
and do not significantly increase in size when inoculated onto a nutrient-rich
medium are called ultramicrobacteria (Torrella and Morita 1981). The relevance
of bacterial pathogens that pass through a 0.2-µm membrane (other than the cell
wall-less groups) has largely been ignored.
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water        153

9.5 GROWTH AND DETECTION WITH CHROMOGENIC
    SUBSTANCES
In addition to ISO methods for detection of pathogens from waters, which
generally rely on selective enrichments followed by secondary culture and
biochemical testing for confirmations (Table 9.2), research for more reliable and
faster methods continues. One result is the use of chromogenic compounds,
which may be added to the conventional or newly devised media used for the
isolation of heterotrophs. These chromogenic substances are modified either by
enzymes that are typical for the respective bacteria or by specific bacterial
metabolites. After modification, the chromogenic substance changes its colour
or its fluorescence, thus enabling easy detection of those colonies displaying the
metabolic capacity. In this way, these substances can be used to avoid the need
for isolation of pure cultures and confirmatory tests. The time required for the
determination of different bacteria can be cut down to 18–14 h, which makes
results available the next working day.
   Currently, a number of different media based on enzyme-specific tests have
been developed for pathogens (Carricajo et al. 1999; Perry et al. 1999;
Karpiskova et al. 2000) and are becoming routine in clinical and food
laboratories. These media allow detection, enumeration and identification to be
performed directly on the isolation plate or in the broth. In general, four groups
of fluorogenic and chromogenic compounds can be distinguished: fluorogenic
dyes, pH-fluorescent indicators, redox indicators and enzyme substrates. Such
tests could be equally well applied to water or biofilm homogenates, although
there are few comparisons specifically discussed in the current literature, except
for faecal indicators (Manafi 1999).


9.6 IMMUNOLOGICAL AND NUCLEIC ACID-BASED
    METHODS
A range of biochemical-based detection methods have developed over the last
20 years. These were initially based solely on antibodies and more recently in
combination with nucleic acid-based approaches. Each of these is now
discussed.

9.6.1 Antibody-based methods
Antibodies, glycoproteins produced by mammals as part of their defence system
against foreign matter, possess highly specific binding and recognition domains
154                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

that can be targeted to specific surface structures of a pathogen (antigen).
Antibody techniques used to detect a wide range of pathogens in clinical,
agricultural and environmental samples are referred to as immunological
methods.
    Antisera or polyclonal antibodies are the original source of immune reagents;
they are obtained from the serum of immunized animals (typically rabbits or
sheep). The preparations comprise a mixture of antibody molecules each with
different reactivities (affinities and specificities) for the immunized material,
and the response to immunization varies between animals and between bleeds
from the same animal. Monoclonal antibodies, produced in vitro by fusing
plasma cells of an immunized animal (usually a mouse or rat) with a cell line
that grows continuously in culture, so that the fused cells will grow continuously
and secrete only one kind of antibody molecule (Goding 1986), can be much
better standardized and generally give greater specificity than polyclonal
antibodies (Torrance 1999).
    For example, monoclonal antibodies have been successfully used for the
detection of campylobacters (Buswell et al. 1998), E. coli O157:H7 (Tanaka et
al. 2000), Helicobacter pylori (Hegarty et al. 1999), Legionella (Steinmetz et al.
1992; Obst et al. 1994) and mycobacteria (Wayne et al. 1996). Viable cells may
be detected with antibodies if precultivated in a selective medium to raise the
number up to detectable numbers, so avoiding (the possible complication of)
detecting dead cells. Another option for the detection of “viable” heterotrophs is
the combination of immunofluorescence (IF) with a respiratory activity
compound (such as cyanoditolyl tetrazolium chloride, or CTC). An IF/CTC
approach has been described for the detection of E. coli O157:H7,
Salmonella typhimurium and Klebsiella pneumoniae in water (Pyle et al. 1995).
In general, immunological methods can easily be automated in order to handle
high sample numbers and often form the basis of pathogen biosensors (outlined
in section 9.5).
    A more traditional use of antibodies is their conjugation to latex beads and
interaction with the target antigen, in what are called antibody agglutination
assays, to confirm the presence of particular pathogens following culture. In the
confirmation of E. coli O157:H7, for example, negative sorbitol-fermenting
colonies after growth on sorbitol MacConkey agar are screened by antibody
agglutination (Taormina et al. 1998).

9.6.2 Immunomagnetic separation
Immunomagnetic separation (IMS) offers an alternative approach to rapid
identification of culturable and non-culturable microorganisms (Safarik et al.
1995). The principles and application of the method are simple but reliant on
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water       155

suitable antibody specificity under the conditions of use. Purified antigens are
typically biotinylated and bound to streptoavidin-coated paramagnetic particles.
The raw sample is gently mixed with the immunomagnetic beads; then, a
specific magnet is used to hold the target organisms against the wall of the
recovery vial, and non-bound material is poured off. If required, the process can
be repeated, and the beads may be removed by simple vortexing. Target
organisms can then be cultured or identified by direct means.
   The IMS approach has been applied to the recovery of E. coli O157 from
water (Anonymous 1996), and commercial kits utilizing IMS concentration of
pathogens are available. Furthermore, E. coli O157 detection following IMS can
be improved by electrochemiluminescence detection (Yu and Bruno 1996) or
solid-phase laser cytometry (Pyle et al. 1999). It is important to note, however,
that false-negative detection by IMS may occur due to the loss of surface
antigen properties from the target cells via environmental decay and induced by
starvation, as shown for E. coli O157:H7 (Hara-Kudo et al. 2000). Nonetheless,
IMS may also detect VBNC cells (Velazquez and Feirtag 1999). IMS is
probably best used in combination with gene amplification and probing
methods, which are discussed next.

9.6.3 Gene sequence-based methods
Advances in molecular biology in the past 20 years have resulted in a number of
new detection methods that depend on the recognition of specific gene
sequences. Such methods are usually rapid and can be tailored to detect specific
strains of organisms on the one hand or groups of organisms on the other. The
methods have a substantial potential for future application in the field of
drinking-water hygiene (Havelaar 1993). An international expert meeting in
Interlaken concluded (OECD 1999) that the application of molecular methods
was currently largely limited to research, verification and outbreak
investigation, and that its usefulness in routine monitoring remained to be
proven. These new methods are largely based around the polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) and gene sequence pattern (“fingerprint”) identification
approaches described below. To date, they have largely impacted on
epidemiology and outbreak investigations rather than the routine testing of
finished drinking-water.

9.6.4 Polymerase chain reaction
With the PCR and two suitable primer sequences (fragments of nucleic acid that
specifically bind to the target organism), trace amounts of DNA can be
156                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

selectively multiplied. In principle, a single copy of the respective sequence in
the assay can produce over a million-fold identical copies, which can then be
detected and further analysed by different methods. Examples of genes used for
the specific detection of various pathogens are listed in Table 9.1; however, for
the identification of different taxa, the 16S and 23S ribosomal RNA (rRNA)
genes are often the most useful (Olsen et al. 1986; Szewzyk et al. 1994).
Furthermore, a range of methods have been developed for the purification of
nucleic acids from the environment, including bispeptide nucleic acids (bis-
PNAs; PNA clamps), PNA oligomers and DNA oligonucleotides as affinity
purification reagents for sub-femtomoles per litre 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA)
and rRNA targets. The most efficacious capture system depends upon the
particular sample type (and background nucleic acid concentration), target
(DNA or RNA) and detection objective (Chandler et al. 2000).
   One problem faced with the PCR test is the low volume assayed, in the order
of some microlitres, whereas the water sample volume is in the range of 100 ml
to 100 litres — hence the need to prefilter and/or IMS concentrate the target
organism(s). A resulting problem, however, is that natural water samples often
contain substances (like humic acids and iron) that may also concentrate and
subsequently interfere with the PCR. Hence, it is critical to have positive and
negative controls with each environmental sample PCR to check for inhibition
and specificity.
   In addition to control samples in PCR runs, subsequent sequence analysis or
hybridization of the product amplicon with a second specific probe can greatly
reduce the probability of false-positive detection of (non-target) organisms. In
the detection of the genus Mycobacterium by PCR targeting the 16S rDNA, the
specificity and sensitivity of such a two-step method were confirmed with
various target and non-target reference strains, followed by application in native
biofilms from different drinking-water distribution systems (Schwartz et al.
1998). The results of the Schwartz et al. (1998) investigation showed that
mycobacteria could not be detected when groundwater was used as raw water
source, but were frequently found in bank-filtered drinking-water biofilms.
Importantly, further PCR experiments indicated that the detected mycobacteria
did not belong to the pathogenic or certain opportunistic pathogenic species of
this genus, but were representatives of the environmental mycobacteria.
   Various hybridization probes are available, are easy to implement and are far
more rapid than conventional biochemical confirmation methods. For example,
a rapid hybridization protocol for Campylobacter jejuni, utilizing a 1475-bp
chromogen-labelled DNA probe (pDT1720), was developed by L.-K. Ng et al.
(1997) for food samples. Based on the nucleotide sequence of pDT1720, a pair
of oligonucleotide primers was also designed for PCR amplification of DNA
from Campylobacter spp. after overnight growth in selective Mueller-Hinton
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water           157

broth with cefoperazone and growth supplements. All C. jejuni strains tested,
including deoxyribonuclease-producing strains and C. jejuni subsp. doylei,
produced the specific 402-bp amplicon, as confirmed by restriction and
Southern blot analysis. The detection range of the assay was as low as 3 cfu per
PCR to as high as 105 cfu per PCR for pure cultures.
    The generally greater sensitivity of PCR over conventional culture-based
methods is often suggested to be due to the detection of naked nucleic acids,
living microorganisms and dead microorganisms (Toze 1999). One way to
resolve these various targets is to use a short (e.g., 3 h) preincubation period in a
selective medium so that only growing organisms are detected (Frahm et al.
1998). Other options include the use of nested PCR (second primer set targeting
regions within the first set’s amplicon) (Guimaraes-Peres et al. 1999) or
multiplex PCR (targeting two different genomic regions in the one reaction)
(Campbell et al. 2001).
    Also under development are methods targeting short-lived nucleic acids, such
as messenger RNA or rRNA (Sheridan et al. 1998). Nonetheless, false negatives
can occur, as illustrated in the analysis of legionellae from 80 cooling tower
water samples using both cultural and PCR methods (D.L.K. Ng et al. 1997).
D.L.K. Ng et al. (1997) performed the PCR with the Perkin Elmer EnviroAmp
Legionella kit, and 47 samples (58.8%) appeared positive by both methods; 29
samples (36.3%) were positive by PCR only, while 4 samples (5%) showed
PCR inhibition despite the adoption of the more stringent sample preparation
protocol especially designed to eliminate inhibitors.
    A most important advantage of PCR is that the target organism(s) do not
need to be culturable. Detection of novel unculturable pathogens has resulted
from the use of PCR, such as the finding of Gastrospirillum hominis by cloning
its 16S rRNA into E. coli and subsequent sequence analysis (Solnick et al.
1993). Based on its 16S rDNA sequence, this unculturable Helicobacter-like
organism appeared closely related to H. felis and may be the only Helicobacter-
like bacterium to infect humans and small animals.
    PCR is of particular advantage for the analysis of pathogens among high
numbers of background bacteria in pipe biofilms, such as Mycobacterium spp.
and Helicobacter pylori, which are difficult to culture and, in the case of
Mycobacterium, not different at the 16S rRNA level (Roth et al. 1998; Mackay
et al. 1999). For example, Mackay et al. (1999) used an MRD incorporating
removable stainless steel coupons to investigate the persistence of H. pylori in
mixed-species heterotrophic laboratory biofilms. While dead (heat-inactivated)
H. pylori (NCTC 11637) did not persist in the biofilm, live cells were detected
in biofilm material well after theoretical washout. Hence, Mackay et al. (1999)
158                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

suggested that the organism possessed the ability to persist in the mixed-species
heterotrophic biofilm and may pose a risk to public health.
    Rapid improvements in in situ labelling methods have facilitated the
development of a number of quantitative PCR approaches, which can be
achieved by real-time PCR machines — those that follow amplicon production
during the PCR cycles. Pathogens can be identified in as little as 30 min in
commercially available real-time PCR machines (Cockerill and Smith 2002). In
situ detection of amplicons is generally by fluorescent reporter probes, such as
those in molecular beacons (which fluoresce only when the quencher and
fluorochrome are separated) or by fluorescent resonance energy transfer
(pumping of one fluorochrome by the emission of another).

9.6.5 Fluorescence in situ hybridization
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) uses gene probes with a fluorescent
marker, typically targeting the 16S rRNA (Amann et al. 1995). Concentrated
and fixed cells are permeabilized and mixed with the probe. Incubation
temperature and addition of chemicals can influence the stringency of the match
between the gene probe and the target sequence. Since the signal of a single
fluorescent molecule within a cell does not allow detection, target sequences
with multiple copies in a cell have to be selected (e.g., there are 102–104 copies
of 16S rRNA in active cells). A number of FISH methods for the detection of
coliforms and enterococci have been developed (Meier et al. 1997; Fuchs et al.
1998; Patel et al. 1998), but few fluorescent oligoprobes have been developed
for waterborne bacterial pathogens or their environmental hosts (Grimm et al.
2001).
   Although controversial for many pathogens, low-nutrient environments may
result in cells entering a non-replicative VBNC state (Bogosian et al. 1998).
Such a state not only may give us a false sense of security when reliance is
placed on culture-based methods, but also may give the organisms further
protection (Lisle et al. 1998; Caro et al. 1999). An indication of VBNC
Legionella pneumophila cell formation was given by following decreasing
numbers of bacteria monitored by colony-forming units, acridine orange direct
count and hybridization with 16S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes
(Steinert et al. 1997). It was therefore concluded that FISH detection-based
methods may better report the presence of infective pathogens and viable
indicator bacteria. Yet cells may remain FISH-positive for two weeks after cell
death, so inclusion of some activity stain (e.g., CTC) is necessary to confirm
viability (Prescott and Fricker 1999).
   A further extension of the FISH approach to improve signal strength is the
use of peptide nucleic acid probes targeted against the 16S rRNA molecule,
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water        159

such as used to detect E. coli from water (Prescott and Fricker 1999). The probe
was labelled with biotin, which was subsequently detected with streptavidin
horseradish peroxidase and the tyramide signal amplification system. E. coli
cells were concentrated by membrane filtration prior to hybridization and the
labelled cells detected by a commercial laser-scanning device within 3 h.
Detection and enumeration of labelled pathogens are also possible by the use of
a flow cytometer (Fuchs et al. 1998; Tanaka et al. 2000). Nonetheless, the main
limitation with flow cytometry is the often low signal-to-noise ratio between
FISH-labelled cells and background autofluorescence of environmental samples
(Deere et al. 2002).


9.7 FINGERPRINTING METHODS
Over the last 20 years, a diversity of fingerprinting methods has arisen. Analysis
of isoenzymes, serotyping and, more recently, macrorestriction analysis (using
pulsed field gel electrophoresis [PFGE]) are well established methods for the
typing of bacterial pathogens (Jonas et al. 2000). Due to the necessary skills,
expensive equipment or access to a collection of monoclonal antibodies,
however, these are often restrictive approaches. Multilocus enzyme
electrophoresis (MLEE) is the preferred enzyme analysis method, which
estimates the overall genetic relatedness among strains by indicating allele
variation in a random sample of chromosomally encoded metabolic
housekeeping enzymes (Selander et al. 1986). In general, however, one would
expect MLEE analysis to be less discriminating between pathogenic and non-
pathogenic strains than direct PCR amplification and sequencing of putative
toxin genes (Nachamkin et al. 2001). Hence, application of DNA-based
techniques for culturable and non-culturable cells based on ribotyping, RNA
profiling and various PCR-based DNA fingerprinting methods, such as
restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), amplified fragment length
polymorphism (AFLP), denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and
temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE), single-strand conformation
polymorphism (SSCP) and PFGE, is now outlined.

9.7.1 Ribotyping
Ribotyping is a well regarded method of genotyping pure culture isolates and is
often used in epidemiological studies. The basis of ribotyping is the use of
rRNA as a probe to detect chromosomal RFLPs. Hence, the whole DNA of a
pure culture is extracted, cleaved into various length fragments by the use of one
of many endonucleases, which are separated by gel chromatography, then
160                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

probed with labelled rRNA oligonucleotides (oligos) (Southern blot analysis).
Although ribotyping is accurate, it is time and labour consuming, not only
needing pure isolates, but also requiring the undertaking of Southern blot
analysis, all of which are now possible with automated machines.
   A modification of the method is PCR-ribotyping, which uses PCR to directly
amplify the 16S–23S intergenic spacer region of the bacterial rRNA operon. The
heterogeneity in the length of the spacer region allows for an alternative to
standard ribotyping, as illustrated for Burkholderia (Pseudomonas) cepacia
(Dasen et al. 1994). PCR-ribotyping has been shown to be a rapid and accurate
method for typing a range of bacteria and is less labour intensive than standard
ribotyping (Dasen et al. 1994).

9.7.2 Profiling of low-molecular-weight RNA
Direct detection of the diversity of bacteria from the environment is also
possible. A method developed over 20 years ago is the profiling of low-
molecular-weight (LMW) RNA (5S rRNA and transfer RNA [tRNA]) (Höfle
1998). The technique is straightforward; total RNA (23S, 16S and 5S rRNA, as
well as tRNA present in high copy number in viable cells) is extracted from an
environmental sample and separated by high-resolution polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis. The separation profiles of the 5S rRNA and tRNA (the 23S and
16S rRNA are too big to enter the gel) can be visualized by silver staining or by
autoradiography if the RNA is radioactively labelled. Subsequently, the profiles
are scanned and stored in an electronic database for comparison.
   For example, LMW RNA profiling was used to monitor bacterial population
dynamics in a set of freshwater mesocosms after addition of non-indigenous
bacteria and culture medium (Höfle 1992). The addition of the bacteria had no
effect on the indigenous bacterioplankton. However, the added culture medium
caused an increase of two of the natural bacterial populations — namely, a
member related to Aeromonas hydrophila and bacteria related to Cytophaga
johnsonae. Hence, LMW RNA profiling may allow the direct detection of
specific genera and sometimes bacterial species within aquatic environments.
   Further resolution with LMW rRNA fingerprinting can be achieved by using
DGGE (described below). There are practical limitations, however; rRNA
rapidly degrades, forming additional bands in the profiles (Stoner et al. 1996).
Furthermore, the small size of the different LMW RNAs (5S rRNA maximal 131
nucleotides, and tRNA maximal 96 nucleotides) limits their phylogenetic
information (limits discrimination to general or above).
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water       161

9.7.3 Restriction fragment length polymorphism
In traditional RFLP analysis, DNA is isolated from pure culture isolates and
subject to specific cleavage by one or more endonucleases before separating the
fragments by gel chromatography. To improve the resolution between DNA
fragments, restriction enzyme analysis can be followed by PFGE (Schoonmaker
et al. 1992).
   Schoonmaker et al. (1992) compared ribotyping and restriction enzyme
analysis by PFGE for L. pneumophila isolates from patients, their environment
and unrelated control strains during a nosocomial outbreak. Two of the patterns
were observed in the three L. pneumophila serogroup 6 isolates from patients
with confirmed nosocomial infections and environmental isolates from the
potable water supply, which was, therefore, believed to be the source of the
patients’ infections. Additional pattern types from patients with legionellosis
were seen in isolates from the hospital environment, demonstrating the presence
of multiple strains in the hospital environment. While both techniques
successfully subtyped the isolates obtained during the investigation of the
outbreak, restriction enzyme analysis by PFGE was useful for subdividing
ribotypes and for distinguishing strains involved in the outbreak from
epidemiologically unrelated strains (Schoonmaker et al. 1992).
   A rapid two-step identification scheme based on PCR-RFLP analysis of the
16S rRNA gene was developed in order to differentiate isolates belonging to the
Campylobacter, Arcobacter and Helicobacter genera. For 158 isolates (26
reference cultures and 132 clinical isolates), specific RFLP patterns were
obtained, and species were successfully identified by this assay (Marshall et al.
1999). Furthermore, a novel helicobacter, Helicobacter canadensis, was
distinguished from H. pullorum by RFLP analysis using the restriction enzyme
ApaLI (Fox et al. 2000).
   It should be noted, however, that the success of RFLP analysis is organism or
group specific, and trialling of many restriction enzymes can be frustrating. For
example, Smith and Callihan (1992) were able to correctly identify Bacteroides
fragilis strains, but were unable to generate RFLPs that could be used to
specifically separate enterotoxin-producing strains from non-enterotoxigenic
strains (Smith and Callihan 1992).
   There are also practical issues associated with comparing between gels,
particularly for PFGE, in that small changes in running conditions may yield
different results. Hence, software designed to reduce misclassifications has been
developed (Wang et al. 2001).
162                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

9.7.4 Amplified fragment length polymorphisms and
      arbitrarily primed PCR
DNA RFLPs are extremely valuable tools for laboratory-based evaluation of
hypotheses generated by epidemiological investigations of infectious disease
outbreaks. Using PCR-typing protocols, however, provides the advantage that
minute amounts of target DNA can be analysed in a very short time. Numerous
PCR-based typing protocols have been introduced, which take advantage of
rapid screening of these small volumes, such as random amplification of
genomic DNA (Welsh and McClelland 1990). Two types of PCR-based
subtyping methods are preferred (Jonas et al. 2000). The PCR-RFLP method
involves the amplification of previously characterized or phylogenetically
conserved targets followed by restriction endonuclease analysis to evaluate
polymorphisms within the amplified sequences (called AFLP or amplified 16S
rDNA restriction analysis [ARDRA]). The second approach uses random
amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) or arbitrarily primed PCR (AP-PCR),
which require no prior knowledge of DNA sequences of test organisms because
they rely on random amplification of target DNA by arbitrarily chosen primers.
In addition, RAPD and AP-PCR do not require any restriction analysis of
amplified DNA, as fragments are the product of the PCR.
   There are several issues to be recognized with PCR-based methods. The
approaches are organism dependent and do not always provide adequate
discrimination between unrelated isolates. RAPD methods often may suffer
from poor reproducibility, particularly when the amplification is performed by
using crude target DNA under non-stringent conditions (Tyler et al. 1997).
Hence, it is important to have protocols that are defined and followed strictly
(Grundmann et al. 1997). Lastly, fingerprinting patterns from AP-PCR or
RAPDs are often complex and at best have to be analysed by means of DNA
sequencing gels, using automated laser fluorescence analysis systems, and
compared unambiguously with specialized software (Grundmann et al. 1995).
   In an analysis of 29 outbreak-associated and 8 non-associated strains of
Legionella pneumophila, Jonas et al. (2000) demonstrated that SfiI
macrorestriction analysis, AFLP and AP-PCR all detected one predominant
genotype associated with the outbreaks in hospitals. All of them correctly
assigned epidemiologically associated environmental isolates to their respective
patient specimens. Although AP-PCR was the least discriminating and least
reproducible technique, it demonstrated the best interassay reproducibility
(90%) and concordance (94%) in comparison with the genotyping standard of
macrorestriction analysis and the epidemiological data. Analysis of AFLP
fragments revealed 12 different types and subtypes. Hence, because of its
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water       163

simplicity and reproducibility, AFLP proved to be the most effective technique
in outbreak investigation (Jonas et al. 2000).

9.7.5 Repetitive gene PCR
PCR-mediated amplification of regions bordered by enterobacterial repetitive
intergenic consensus sequences or repetitive extragenic palindrome motifs have
proved to be valuable tools to examine genetic variation among an extensive
range of bacterial species (Versalovic et al. 1991). However, relatively relaxed
primer annealing conditions have been used in these studies, and it remains to be
determined whether the enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus and
repetitive extragenic palindrome PCRs are basically different from AP-PCR or
analysis by RAPD (Welsh and McClelland 1990).
   Consequently, a high-stringency PCR assay, targeting regions within the
various bacterial genomes and bordered by invertedly repeated elements (known
as a “BOX”) (Martin et al. 1992), have been developed (BOX-PCR) (Kainz et
al. 2000). For example, 15 strains of Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica
serotypes Typhi (10), Paratyphi A (1) and Typhimurium (3) collected over a
period of 15 years from stool, blood and urine samples and the Ganga River
were tested by ARDRA, RAPD and BOX-PCR methods (Tikoo et al. 2001). In
ARDRA, strains belonging to the same species were identified by identical
fingerprints; RAPD, on the other hand, divided Salmonella into nine different
groups. In BOX-PCR, all the strains of Salmonella showed six different groups,
but with the presence of a common band. It was observed that RAPD had higher
discriminatory power than BOX-PCR and was a simple and rapid technique for
use in epidemiological studies of isolates belonging to S. enterica (Tikoo et al.
2001).
   Nonetheless, for reasons discussed below, RAPD is generally not preferred,
and genetic typing methods using repeating intergenic DNA and PCR (Gillings
and Holley 1997; Dombek et al. 2000) and ribotyping (Parveen et al. 1999;
Carson et al. 2001) should be considered first.

9.7.6 Denaturing and temperature gradient gel
      electrophoresis
In applications where pure cultures are either not available or not wanted,
Muyzer and co-workers introduced a genetic fingerprinting technique directed to
microbial ecology, which is based on DGGE (Myers et al. 1987) of PCR-
amplified 16S rRNA fragments (Muyzer et al. 1993). The method is rapid and
straightforward and does not depend on expensive equipment. Mixtures of PCR
164                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

products obtained after enzymatic amplification of genomic DNA extracted from
a complex assemblage of microbes are separated in polyacrylamide gels
containing a linear gradient of DNA denaturants (urea and formamide) (Muyzer
and Smalla 1998). Sequence variation among the different DNA molecules
influences the melting behaviour, and therefore molecules with different
sequences will stop migrating at different positions in the gel.
    Another technique based on the same principle is TGGE (Riesner et al.
1991), which can also be applied to separate 16S rDNA fragments. While non-
culturable environmental bacteria can be detected, the approach relies upon
linking rDNA from community fingerprints to pure culture isolates from the
same habitat. For example, digoxigenin-labelled polynucleotide probes can be
generated by PCR, using bands excised from TGGE community fingerprints as
a template, and applied in hybridizations with dot blotted 16S rDNA amplified
from bacterial isolates (Muyzer and Smalla 1998). Within 16S rDNA, the
hypervariable V6 region, corresponding to positions 984–1047 (E. coli 16S
rDNA sequence), which is a subset of the region used for TGGE (positions 968–
1401), best met the criteria of high phylogenetic variability, required for
sufficient probe specificity, and closely flanking conserved priming sites for
amplification. Removal of banking conserved bases was necessary to enable the
differentiation of closely related species. This was achieved by 5' exonuclease
digestion, terminated by phosphorothioate bonds that were synthesized into the
primers. The remaining complementary strand was removed by single-strand-
specific digestion. Standard hybridization with truncated probes allowed
differentiation of bacteria that differed by only two bases within the probe target
site and 1.2% within the complete 16S rDNA.

9.7.7 Single-strand conformation polymorphism
An alternative to sequencing is SSCP analysis, developed in 1989 (Orita et al.
1989), which uses small sequences of a target gene that has been amplified by
PCR. Fragments are heat denatured to create single strands, and the single
strands are subsequently renatured, causing the strands to adopt “tertiary”
conformations based on their base sequences. Thus, fragments with different
base sequences have different conformations. For analysis, these fragments are
separated by electrophoresis with a non-denaturing gel, in which each fragment
will consistently travel at a unique rate even when fragments are of identical
size.
   SSCP was primarily designed to detect sequence mutations, including single
base substitutions, in genomic DNA (Orita et al. 1989). SSCP analysis of PCR-
amplified fragments of the 16S rRNA gene has more recently been used as an
alternative to genomic sequencing for the identification of bacterial species
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water          165

(Ghozzi et al. 1999). The use of a fluorescence-based capillary electrophoresis
system for SSCP analysis has also contributed to the efficiency of the
methodology and reliability of analysis (Gillman et al. 2001). Gillman et al.
(2001) used multiple-fluorescence-based PCR and subsequent SSCP analysis of
four variable regions of the 16S rRNA gene to identify species-specific patterns
for 30 of the most common mycobacterial human pathogens and environmental
isolates.


9.8 EMERGING METHODS
Current developments in high-throughput nucleic acid sequencing and so-called
“gene chip” or microarray technology are having a major impact on bacterial
epidemiology. Whole genome sequencing is now a reality, facilitating the
identification of novel target sequence motifs for epidemiological typing.
Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) is one example, being the sequence
polymorphism detected in a number of slowly evolving genes and providing for
the categorization of strains on the basis of allelic diversity (Dingle et al. 2000;
Blackwell 2001; McGee et al. 2001). MLST is a development of multilocus
enzyme electrophoresis in which the alleles at multiple housekeeping loci are
assigned directly by nucleotide sequencing, rather than indirectly from the
electrophoretic mobilities of their gene products. A major advantage of this
approach is that sequence data are unambiguous and electronically portable,
allowing molecular typing of bacterial pathogens (or other infectious agents) via
the Internet. Hence, MLST should also be a good method for discriminating
between different virulence factors.
    DNA chip or microarray technology is characterized by high-throughput
probe-mediated nucleic acid identification capacity. In contrast, biosensors in
the medical area have largely been based on antibody technology, the antigen
triggering a transducer or linking to an enzyme amplification system. Biosensors
based on gene recognition, however, are looking very promising in the
microarray format for detecting and even quantifying microorganisms (Cho and
Tiedje 2002).
    As little material can actually come in contact with the microarray, ways to
concentrate water samples will be necessary, such as membrane filtration or
IMS concentration. Nonetheless, detection limits are currently not very
sensitive: direct plating of washed IMS beads showed a positive recovery of E.
coli O157:H7 directly from poultry carcass rinse at an inoculum of 10 cfu/ml,
whereas IMS used with direct PCR amplification and microarray detection gave
a process-level detection limit (automated cell concentration through microarray
detection) of <103 cfu/ml in poultry carcass rinse water (Chandler et al. 2001).
166                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   There are two variants of the DNA microarray technology, in terms of the
property of arrayed DNA sequence with known identity:

   •    Probe cDNA (500–5000 bases long) is immobilized to a solid surface
        such as glass using robot spotting and exposed to a set of targets either
        separately or in a mixture. This method, “traditionally” called DNA
        microarray, is widely considered to have been developed at Stanford
        University (Ekins and Chu 1999).
   •    An array of oligonucleotides (20–25 bases long) or PNA probes is
        synthesized either in situ (on-chip) or by conventional synthesis
        followed by on-chip immobilization. The array is exposed to labelled
        sample DNA and hybridized, and the identity and abundance of
        complementary sequences are determined (Lemieux et al. 1998;
        Lipshutz et al. 1999) (Figure 9.1).

                                                     Hybridization and washing
                                                         of the DNA chip
          Target nucleic acid
                                                                    hybridize & wash

            promoter
                         PCR
           T3 RNA pol.

       ds DNA
                                       promoter                      fluorescein reading
                                      T7 R NA pol.                     with a confocal scanner
                                                     1
                 Fl       F       F      F           A
       ss RNA                                        C
                                                     G
                               fragmentation         T
                 F                F                      A C T G C G A C C A TG 2
                           F             F

                         1, 5 H                                1H


Figure 9.1. Test format of the DNA chip array. Nucleic acid extraction,
amplification and labelling are manual steps, whereas hybridization, DNA chip
reading and interpretation are undertaken by dedicated instrumentation (ds
DNA: double-stranded DNA; ss RNA: single-stranded RNA; Fl: labelled
ribonucleotide (rUTP-fluoresceine); 1: nucleotide tested at interrogation
position; 2: nucleotide at interrogation position). Source: www.affymetrix.com.
        Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water          167

   The vast amount of information captured with microarrays necessitates skills
in bioinformatics as well as in microarray technology and microbiology (Wu et
al. 2001), although various commercial products (see, for example,
http://www.esd.ornl.gov/facilities/genomics/equipment.html) are now available
for preparing and reading the results from microarrays. Perhaps seen as
fortuitous, the current interest in molecular recognition of biowarfare agents has
greatly hastened developments in new and improved biosensors using a range of
molecular recognition components (e.g., antibody, aptamer, enzyme, nucleic
acid, receptor, etc.) (Iqbal et al. 2001). Improvements in the affinity, specificity
and mass production of the molecular recognition components may ultimately
dictate the success or failure of detection technologies in both a technical and
commercial sense, as discussed in the excellent review by Iqbal et al. (2001).
Achieving the ultimate goal of giving the individual soldier on the battlefield or
civilian responders to an urban biological attack or epidemic a miniature,
sensitive and accurate biosensor may depend as much on molecular biology and
molecular engineering as on hardware engineering.


9.9 CONCLUSIONS
A major limitation to our understanding the full extent of bacterial pathogens in
aquatic environments has been our limited understanding of the majority of
bacterial types present, when culture-based methods have been applied. Current
methods are still heavily reliant on growing cells in media, but these have been
significantly improved by the application of chromogenic substances that detect
specific bacterial metabolites. We are now, however, able to dislodge cells from
biofilms and fractionate bacteria or filter them from waters prior to direct
detection or an amplification process. The most important molecular
amplification process is that of the PCR. Not only can we detect non-culturable
bacteria, but, coupled with various PCR product-separating techniques, highly
specific fingerprinting of different strains of bacteria is possible, as used in
molecular epidemiology. Recent interest in biological weapons has heightened
advances in bacterial identification, but many of these methods are still not
sufficiently sensitive to detect the low concentrations of pathogens considered
important in drinking-waters. Hence, there is still a research need to develop
routine approaches for where these organisms concentrate — e.g., biofilm-based
detection methods or improved concentration methods for large-volume water
samples. Overall, to broaden out knowledge of the heterotrophs of concern,
sound collaboration between medical microbiologists and physicians is
necessary to clarify the significance of unidentified heterotrophs or their
168                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

virulence factors in aquatic environments, among what appears to be an
increasingly complex story (Feil and Spratt 2001).


9.10 REFERENCES
Amann, R.I., Ludwig, W. and Schleifer, K.-H. (1995) Phylogenetic identification and in
     situ detection of individual microbial cells without cultivation. Microbiol. Rev.
     59(1), 143–169.
Anonymous (1996) Outbreaks of Escherichia coli O157:H7 infection and
     cryptosporidiosis associated with drinking unpasteurized apple cider — Connecticut
     and New York, October 1996. Morbid. Mortal. Wkly. Rep. 46, 4–8.
APHA-AWWA-WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
     Wastewater, 20th edn. American Public Health Association, American Water Works
     Association and Water Environment Federation, New York.
Ashbolt, N.J., Grabow, W.O.K. and Snozzi, M. (2001) Indicators of microbial water
     quality. In Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of Risk
     and Risk Management for Water-related Infectious Disease (ed. L. Fewtrell and J.
     Bartram), pp. 289–315, IWA Publishing, London.
Barbeau, J., Gauthier, C. and Payment, P. (1998) Biofilms, infectious agents, and dental
     unit waterlines: a review [review]. Can. J. Microbiol. 44(11), 1019–1028.
Blackwell, J.M. (2001) Genetics and genomics in infectious disease susceptibility.
     Trends Mol. Med. 7(11), 521–526.
Bogosian, G., Morris, P.J.L. and O’Neil, J.P. (1998) A mixed culture recovery method
     indicates that enteric bacteria do not enter the viable but nonculturable state. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 64(5), 1736–1742.
Brown, M.R.W. and Barker, J. (1999) Unexplored reservoirs of pathogenic bacteria:
     protozoa and biofilms. Trends Microbiol. 7(1), 46–50.
Buswell, C.M., Herlihy, Y.M., Lawrence, L.M., McGuiggan, J.T.M., Marsh, P.D.,
     Keevil, C.W. and Leach, S.A. (1998) Extended survival and persistence of
     Campylobacter spp. in water and aquatic biofilms and their detection by
     immunofluorescent-antibody and -rRNA staining. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(2),
     733–741.
Campbell, G.R., Prosser, J., Glover, A. and Killham, K. (2001) Detection of Escherichia
     coli O157:H7 in soil and water using multiplex PCR. J. Appl. Microbiol. 91, 1004–
     1010.
Caro, A., Got, P., Lesne, J., Binard, S. and Baleux, B. (1999) Viability and virulence of
     experimentally stressed nonculturable Salmonella typhimurium. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 65(7), 3229–3232.
Carricajo, A., Boiste, S., Thore, J., Aubert, G., Gille, Y. and Freydiere, A.M. (1999)
     Comparative evaluation of five chromogenic media for detection, enumeration and
     identification of urinary tract pathogens. Eur. J. Clin. Microbiol. Infect. Dis. 18(11),
     796–803.
Carson, C.A., Shear, B.L., Ellersieck, M.R. and Asfaw, A. (2001) Identification of fecal
     Escherichia coli from humans and animals by ribotyping. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     67(4), 1503–1507.
Cervantes, P., Mennecart, V., Robert, C., de Roubin, M.R. and Joret, J.C. (1997)
     Persistence of viable but non-culturable bacteria during the production and
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water               169

     distribution of drinking water. In The Microbiological Quality of Water (ed. D.W.
     Sutcliffe), pp. 19–27, Freshwater Biological Association, Ambleside.
Chandler, D.P., Stults, J.R., Cebula, S., Schuck, B.L., Weaver, D.W., Anderson, K.K.,
     Egholm, M. and Brockman, F.J. (2000) Affinity purification of DNA and RNA from
     environmental samples with peptide nucleic acid clamps. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     66(8), 3438–3445.
Chandler, D.P., Brown, J., Call, D.R., Wunschel, S., Grate, J.W., Holman, D.A., Olson,
     L., Stottlemyre, M.S. and Bruckner-Lea, C.J. (2001) Automated immunomagnetic
     separation and microarray detection of E. coli O157:H7 from poultry carcass rinse.
     Int. J. Food Microbiol. 70(1–2), 143–154.
Cho, J.C. and Tiedje, J.M. (2002) Quantitative detection of microbial genes by using
     DNA microarrays. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 68(3), 1425–1430.
Cockerill, R.R., III and Smith, T.F. (2002) Rapid-cycle real-time PCR: a revolution for
     clinical microbiology automated extractions, self-contained PCR instruments, and
     other improvements yield easy-to-run diagnostic tests. ASM News 68(2), 77–83.
Colwell, R.R., Brayton, P., Herrington, D., Tall, B., Hug, A. and Levine, M.M. (1996)
     Viable non-culturable Vibrio cholerae O1 revert to a cultivable state in the human
     intestine. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 12(1), 28–31.
Cunliffe, D.A. (1991) Bacterial nitrification in chloraminated water supplies. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 57(11), 3399–3402.
Dasen, S.E., Lipuma, J.J., Kostman, J.R. and Stull, T.L. (1994) Characterization of PCR-
     ribotyping for Burkholderia (Pseudomonas) cepacia. J. Clin. Microbiol. 32(10),
     2422–2424.
Deere, D., Vesey, G., Ashbolt, N. and Gauci, M. (2002) Flow cytometry and cell sorting
     for monitoring microbial cells. In Encyclopedia of Environmental Microbiology (ed.
     G. Bitton), vol. 4, pp. 1944–1958, John Wiley and Sons, New York.
Dingle, K.E., Colles, F.M., Wareing, D.R.A., Ure, R., Fox, A.J., Bolton, F.E., Bootsma,
     H.J., Willems, R.J.L., Urwin, R. and Maiden, M.C.J. (2000) Multilocus sequence
     typing system for Campylobacter jejuni. J. Clin. Microbiol. 39(1), 14–23.
Dombek, P.E., Johnson, L.K., Zimmerley, S.T. and Sadowsky, M.J. (2000) Use of
     repetitive DNA sequences and the PCR to differentiate Escherichia coli isolates
     from human and animal sources. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 66(6), 2572–2577.
Ekins, R. and Chu, F.W. (1999) Microarrays: their origins and applications. Tibtech 17,
     217–218.
Elzanfaly, H.T., Reasoner, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1998) Bacteriological changes
     associated with granular activated carbon in a pilot water treatment plant. Water Air
     Soil Pollut. 107(1–4), 73–80.
Falkinham, J.O., Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2001) Factors influencing
     numbers of Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and other
     mycobacteria in drinking water distribution systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     67(3), 1225–1231.
Feil, E.J. and Spratt, B.G. (2001) Recombination and the population structures of
     bacterial pathogens. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 55, 561–590.
Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J., ed. (2001) Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and
     Health. Risk Assessment and Management for Water-related Infectious Diseases.
     IWA Publishing, London.
Fox, J.G., Chien, C.C., Dewhirst, F.E., Paster, B.J., Shen, Z., Melito, P.L., Woodward,
     D.L. and Rodgers, F.G. (2000) Helicobacter canadensis sp. nov. isolated from
170                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

     humans with diarrhea as an example of an emerging pathogen. J. Clin. Microbiol.
     38(7), 2546–2549.
Frahm, E., Heiber, I., Hoffmann, S., Koob, C., Meier, H., Ludwig, W., Amann, R.,
     Schleifer, K.H. and Obst, U. (1998) Application of 23S rDNA-targeted
     oligonucleotide probes specific for enterococci to water hygiene control. Syst. Appl.
     Microbiol. 21(3), 16–20.
Fuchs, B.M., Wallner, G., Beisker, W., Schwippl, I., Ludwig, W. and Amann, R. (1998)
     Flow cytometric analysis of the in situ accessibility of Escherichia coli 16S rRNA
     for fluorescently labeled oligonucleotide probes. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(12),
     4973–4982.
Ghozzi, R., Morand, P., Ferroni, A., Beretti, J.L., Bingen, E., Segonds, C., Husson, M.O.,
     Izard, D., Berche, P. and Gaillard, J.L. (1999) Capillary electrophoresis–single-
     strand conformation polymorphism analysis for rapid identification of Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa and other gram-negative nonfermenting bacilli recovered from patients
     with cystic fibrosis. J. Clin. Microbiol. 37(10), 3374–3379.
Gillings, M. and Holley, M. (1997) Amplification of anonymous DNA fragments using
     pairs of long primers generates reproducible DNA fingerprints that are sensitive to
     genetic variation. Electrophoresis 18(9), 1512–1518.
Gillman, L.M., Gunton, J., Turenne, C.Y., Wolfe, J. and Kabani, A.M. (2001)
     Identification of Mycobacterium species by multiple-fluorescence PCR–single-
     strand conformation polymorphism analysis of the 16S rRNA gene. J. Clin.
     Microbiol. 39(9), 3085–3091.
Goding, J.W. (1986) Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Practice, 2nd edn.
     Academic Press, London.
Grimm, D., Ludwig, W., Brandt, B.C., Michel, R., Schleifer, K.H., Hacker, J. and
     Steinert, M. (2001) Development of 18S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes for
     specific detection of Hartmannella and Naegleria in Legionella-positive
     environmental samples. Syst. Appl. Microbiol. 24(1), 76–82.
Grundmann, H.J., Schneider, C., Tichy, H.V., Simon, R., Klare, I., Hartung, D. and
     Daschner, F.D. (1995) Automated laser fluorescence analysis of randomly amplified
     polymorphic DNA: a rapid method for investigating nosocomial transmission of
     Acinetobacter baumannii. J. Med. Microbiol. 43(6), 446–451.
Grundmann, H.J., Towner, K.J., Dijkshoorn, L., Gernber-Smidt, P., Maher, M., Seifert,
     H. and Vaneechoutte, M. (1997) Multicenter study using standardized protocols and
     reagents for evaluation of reproducibility of PCR-based fingerprinting of
     Acinetobacter spp. J. Clin. Microbiol. 35(12), 3071–3077.
Guimaraes-Peres, A., Portaels, F., de Rijk, P., Fissette, K., Pattyn, S.R., van Vooren, J.P.
     and Fonteyne, P.A. (1999) Comparison of two PCRs for detection of
     Mycobacterium ulcerans. J. Clin. Microbiol. 37(1), 206–208.
Hara-Kudo, Y., Miyahara, M. and Kumagai, S. (2000) Loss of O157 O antigenicity of
     verotoxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 surviving under starvation
     conditions. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 66, 5540–5543.
Havelaar, A.H. (1993) The place of microbiological monitoring in the production of safe
     drinking water. In Safety of Water Disinfection: Balancing Chemical and Microbial
     Risks (ed. G.F. Craun), pp. 127–141, ILSI Press, Washington, DC.
Hegarty, J.P., Dowd, M.T. and Baker, K.H. (1999). Occurrence of Helicobacter pylori in
     surface water in the United States. J. Appl. Microbiol. 87(5), 697–701.
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water               171

Höfle, M. (1992) Bacterioplankton community structure and dynamics after large-scale
     release of nonindigenous bacteria as revealed by low-molecular-weight RNA
     analysis. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58, 3387–3394.
Höfle, M.G. (1998) Genotyping of bacterial isolates from the environment using low-
     molecular-weight RNA fingerprints. In Molecular Microbial Ecology Manual (ed.
     D.L. Akkermans, J.D. Van Elsas and F.J. De Bruijn), pp. 1–23, Kluwer Academic
     Publishers, Dordrecht.
Iqbal, S.S., Mayo, M.W., Bruno, J.G., Bronk, B.V. and Batt, C.A. (2001) A review of
     molecular recognition technologies for detection of biological threat agents.
     Biosens. Bioelectron. 15(11–12), 549–578.
Johnston, M.D. and Jones, M.V. (1995) Disinfection tests with intact biofilms; combined
     use of the Modified Robbins Device with impedence detection. J. Microbiol. Meth.
     21(1), 15–26.
Jonas, D., Meyer, H.-G.W., Matthes, P., Hartung, D., Jahn, B., Daschner, F.D. and
     Jansen, B. (2000) Comparative evaluation of three different genotyping methods for
     investigation of nosocomial outbreaks of Legionnaires’ disease in hospitals. J. Clin.
     Microbiol. 38(6), 2284–2291.
Jones, K. and Bradshaw, S.B. (1996) Biofilm formation by the Enterobacteriaceae: a
     comparison between Salmonella enteritidis, Escherichia coli and a nitrogen-fixing
     strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 80(4), 458–464.
Kainz, A., Lubitz, W. and Busse, H.J. (2000) Genomic fingerprints, ARDRA profiles and
     quinone systems for classification of Pasteurella sensu stricto. Syst. Appl.
     Microbiol. 23(4), 494–503.
Kalmbach, S., Manz, W. and Szewzyk, U. (1997) Dynamics of biofilm formation in
     drinking water: Phylogenetic affiliation and metabolic potential of single cells
     assessed by formazan reduction and in situ hybridization. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol.
     22(4), 265–279.
Karpiskova, R., Pejchalova, M., Mokrosova, J., Vytrasova, J., Smuharova, P. and
     Ruprich, J. (2000) Application of a chromogenic medium and the PCR method for
     the rapid confirmation of L. monocytogenes in foodstuffs. J. Microbiol. Meth. 41(3),
     267–271.
Köster, W., Egli, T., Ashbolt, N., Botzenhart, K., Burlion, N., Endo, T., Grimont, P.,
     Guillot, E., Mabilat, C., Newport, L., Niemi, M., Payment, P., Prescott, A., Renaud,
     P. and Rust, A. (2002) Analytical methods for microbiological water quality testing.
     In Indicators of Microbial Water Quality (ed. J. Bartram), Organisation for
     Economic Co-operation and Development/World Health Organization, Geneva (in
     press).
Kothary, M.H. and Babu, U.S. (2001) Infective dose of foodborne pathogens in
     volunteers: A review. J. Food Saf. 21(1), 49–73.
Labrousse, A., Chauvet, S., Couillault, C., Kurz, C.L. and Ewbank, J.J. (2000)
     Caenorhabditis elegans is a model host for Salmonella typhimurium. Curr. Biol.
     10(23), 1543–1545.
LeChevallier, M.W., Welch, N.J. and Smith, D.B. (1996) Full-scale studies of factors
     related to coliform regrowth in drinking water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62(7),
     2201–2211.
LeChevallier, M.W., Abbaszadegan, M., Camper, A.K., Hurst, C.J., Izaguirre, G.,
     Marshall, M.M., Nauovitz, D., Payment, P., Rice, E.W., Rose, J., Schaub, S., Slifko,
172                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

     T.R., Smith, D.B., Smith, H.V., Sterling, C.R. and Stewart, M. (1999) Committee
     report: Emerging pathogens — bacteria. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 91(9), 101–109.
Lemieux, B., Aharoni, A. and Schena, M. (1998) Overview of DNA chip technology.
     Mol. Breeding 4(4), 277–289.
Lipshutz, R.J., Fodor, S.P.A., Gingeras, T.R. and Lockhart, D.J. (1999) High density
     synthetic oligonucleotide arrays [review]. Nat. Gen. 21(Suppl. S), 20–24.
Lisle, J.T., Broadway, S.C., Prescott, A.M., Pyle, B., Fricker, C. and McFeters, G.A.
     (1998) Effects of starvation on physiological activity and chlorine disinfection
     resistance in Escherichia coli O157:H7. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(12), 4658–
     4662.
Mackay, W.G., Gribbon, L.T., Barer, M.R. and Reid, D.C. (1999) Biofilms in drinking
     water systems: a possible reservoir for Helicobacter pylori. J. Appl. Microbiol.
     85(Suppl. S), 52S–59S.
Manafi, M. (1999) New approaches for the fast detection of indicators, in particular
     enzyme detection methods (EDM). In Proceedings of the OECD Workshop on
     Molecular      Methods     for    Safe     Drinking    Water,     Interlaken 1998
     (http://www.eawag.ch/publications_e/proceedings/oecd/proceedings/Manafi.pdf),
     Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Marolda, C.L., Hauroder, B., John, M.A., Michel, R. and Valvano, M.A. (1999)
     Intracellular survival and saprophytic growth of isolates from the Burkholderia
     cepacia complex in free-living amoebae. Microbiology 145(7), 1509–1517.
Marshall, S.M., Melito, P.L., Woodward, D.L., Johnson, W.M., Rodgers, F.G. and
     Mulvey, M.R. (1999) Rapid identification of Campylobacter, Arcobacter, and
     Helicobacter isolates by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of
     the 16S rRNA gene. J. Clin. Microbiol. 37(12), 4158–4160.
Martin, B., Humbert, O., Camara, M., Guenzi, E., Walker, J., Mitchell, P., Andrew, M.,
     Prudhomme, M., Alloing, G., Hakenbeck, R., Morrison, D.A., Boulnois, G.J. and
     Claverys, J.P. (1992) A highly conserved repeated DNA element located in the
     chromosome of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Nucleic Acids Res. 20(13), 3479–3483.
McCormick, J.K., Yarwood, J.M. and Schlievert, P.M. (2001) Toxic shock syndrome and
     bacterial superantigens: An update. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 55, 77–104.
McCoy, W.F. and Costerton, J.W. (1982) Fouling biofilm development in tubular flow
     systems. Dev. Ind. Microbiol. 23, 551–558.
McFeters, G.A. (1990) Enumeration, occurrence, and significance of injured indicator
     bacteria in drinking water. In Drinking Water Microbiology (ed. G.A. McFeters),
     pp. 478–492, Springer-Verlag, New York.
McGee, L., McDougal, L., Zhou, J., Spratt, B.G., Tenover, F.C., George, R., Hakenbeck,
     R., Hryniewicz, W., Lefevre, J.C., Tomasz, A. and Klugman, K.P. (2001)
     Nomenclature of major antimicrobial-resistant clones of Streptococcus pneumoniae
     defined by the pneumococcal molecular epidemiology network. J. Clin. Microbiol.
     39(7), 2565–2571.
Meier, H., Koob, C., Ludwig, W., Amann, R., Frahm, E., Hoffmann, S., Obst, U. and
     Schleifer, K.H. (1997) Detection of enterococci with rRNA targeted DNA probes
     and their use for hygienic drinking water control. Water Sci. Technol. 35(11–12),
     437–444.
Muyzer, G. and Smalla, K. (1998) Application of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
     (DGGE) and temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE) in microbial ecology.
     Antonie van Leeuwenhoek Int. J. Gen. Mol. Microbiol. 73(1), 127–141.
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water              173

Muyzer, G., De Wall, E.C. and Uitterlinden, A.G. (1993) Profiling of complex microbial
     populations by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of polymerase chain
     reaction-amplified genes coding for 16S rRNA. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 59, 695–
     700.
Myers, R.M., Maniatis, T. and Lerman, L.S. (1987) Detection and localization of single
     base changes by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Meth. Enzymol. 155, 501–
     527.
Nachamkin, I., Engberg, J., Gutacker, M., Meinersman, R.J., Li, C.Y., Arzate, P., Teeple,
     E., Fussin, V., Ho, T.W., Asbury, A.K., Griffin, J.W., McKhann, G.M. and
     Piffaretti, J.C. (2001) Molecular population genetic analysis of Campylobacter
     jejuni HS:19 associated with Guillain-Barre syndrome and gastroenteritis. J. Infect.
     Dis. 184(2), 221–226.
Ng, D.L.K., Koh, B.B., Tay, L. and Heng, B.H. (1997) Comparison of polymerase chain
     reaction and conventional culture for the detection of Legionellae in cooling tower
     waters in Singapore. Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 24(3), 214–216.
Ng, L.-K., Kingombe, C.I.B., Yan, W., Taylor, D.E., Hiratsuka, K., Malik, N. and
     Garcia, M.M. (1997) Specific detection and confirmation of Campylobacter jejuni
     by DNA hybridization and PCR. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63(11), 4558–4563.
Nichols, G.L., Lightfoot, N.F. and de Louvois, J. (1995) Health Significance of
     Heterotrophic Bacteria Growing in Water Distribution Systems. UK Water Industry
     Research Limited, London.
Obst, U., Hübner, I., Steinmetz, I., Bitter-Suermann, D., Frahm, E. and Palmer, C. (1994)
     Experiences with immunological methods to detect Enterobacteriaceae and
     Legionellaceae in drinking water. In Proceedings of the 1993 Water Quality and
     Technology Conference, vol. 1, pp. 879–897, American Water Works Association,
     Denver, CO.
OECD (1999) Proceedings of the OECD Workshop on Molecular Methods for Safe
     Drinking                   Water,                   Interlaken                  1998
     (http://www.eawag.ch/publications_e/proceedings/oecd/proceedings/). Organisation
     for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Ollos, P.J., Slawson, R.M. and Huck, P.M. (1998) Bench scale investigations of bacterial
     regrowth in drinking water distribution systems. Water Sci. Technol. 38(8–9), 275–
     282.
Olsen, G.J., Lane, D.J., Giovannoni, S.J. and Pace, N.R. (1986) Microbial ecology and
     evolution: A ribosomal RNA approach. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 40, 337–365.
Orita, M., Iwahana, H., Kanazawa, H., Hayashi, K. and Sekiya, T. (1989) Detection of
     polymorphisms of human DNA by gel electrophoresis as single-strand conformation
     polymorphisms. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 86, 2766–2770.
Parveen, S., Portier, K.M., Robinson, K., Edmiston, L. and Tamplin, M.L. (1999)
     Discriminant analysis of ribotype profiles of Escherichia coli for differentiating
     human and nonhuman sources of fecal pollution. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65(7),
     3142–3147.
Patel, R., Piper, K.E., Rouse, M.S., Steckelberg, J.M., Uhl, J.R., Kohner, P., Hopkins,
     M.K., Cockerill, F.R., III and Kline, B.C. (1998) Determination of 16S rRNA
     sequences of enterococci and application to species identification of nonmotile
     Enterococcus gallinarum isolates. J. Clin. Microbiol. 36(11), 3399–3407.
Percival, S.L., Walker, J.T. and Hunter, P.R. (2000) Microbiological Aspects of Biofilms
     and Drinking Water. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL.
174                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Perry, J.D., Ford, M., Taylor, J., Jones, A.L., Freeman, R. and Gould, F.K. (1999) ABC
     medium, a new chromogenic agar for selective isolation of Salmonella spp. J. Clin.
     Microbiol. 37(3), 766–768.
Prescott, A.M. and Fricker, C.R. (1999) Use of PNA oligonucleotide for the in situ
     detection of Escherichia coli in water. Mol. Cell. Probes 13(4), 261–268.
Pyle, B.H., Broadway, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1995) A rapid, direct method for
     enumerating respiring enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 in water. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 61(7), 2614–2619.
Pyle, B.H., Broadway, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1999) Sensitive detection of
     Escherichia coli O157:H7 in food and water by immunomagnetic separation and
     solid-phase laser cytometry. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65(5), 1966–1972.
Riesner, D., Henco, K. and Steger, G. (1991) Temperature-gradient gel electrophoresis: a
     method for the analysis of conformational transitions and mutations in nucleic acids
     and proteins. Adv. Electrophor. 4, 169–250.
Rose, J.B. and Gerba, C.P. (1991) Use of risk assessment for development of microbial
     standards. Water Sci. Technol. 24(2), 29–34.
Roth, A., Fischer, M., Hamid, M.E., Michalke, S., Ludwig, W. and Mauch, H. (1998)
     Differentiation of phylogenetically related slowly growing mycobacteria based on
     16S–23S rRNA gene internal transcribed spacer sequences. J. Clin. Microbiol.
     36(1), 139–147.
Safarik, I., Safarikov , M. and Forsythe, S.J. (1995) The application of magnetic
     separations in applied microbiology. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 78(6), 575–585.
Sartory, D. and Watkins, J. (1999) Conventional culture for water quality assessment: is
     there a future? J. Appl. Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 85(28), 225S–233S.
Schoonmaker, D., Heimberger, T. and Birkhead, G. (1992) Comparison of ribotyping
     and restriction enzyme analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis for
     distinguishing Legionella pneumophila isolates obtained during a nosocomial
     outbreak. J. Clin. Microbiol. 30(6), 1491–1498.
Schwartz, T., Kalmback, S., Hoffmann, S., Szewzyk, U. and Obst, U. (1998) PCR-based
     detection of mycobacteria in biofilms from a drinking water distribution system. J.
     Microbiol. Meth. 34(2), 113–123.
Selander, R.K., Caugant, D.A., Ochman, H., Musser, J.M., Gilmour, M.N. and Whittam,
     T.S. (1986) Methods of multilocus enzyme electrophoresis for bacterial population
     genetics and systematics. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 51, 873–884.
Sheridan, G.E.C., Masters, C.I., Shallcross, J.A. and Mackey, B.M. (1998) Detection of
     mRNA by reverse transcription-PCR as an indicator of viability in Escherichia coli
     cells. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(4), 1313–1318.
Smith, C.J. and Callihan, D.R. (1992) Analysis of rRNA restriction fragment length
     polymorphisms from Bacteroides spp. and Bacteroides fragilis isolates associated
     with diarrhea in humans and animals. J. Clin. Microbiol. 30(3), 806–812.
Solnick, J.V., O’Rourke, J., Lee, A., Paster, B.J., Dewhirst, F.E. and Tompkins, L.S.
     (1993) An uncultured gastric spiral organism is a newly identified Helicobacter in
     humans. J. Infect. Dis. 168, 379–385.
Standing Committee of Analysts (1994) The Microbiology of Water 1994 — Part 1 —
     Drinking Water. Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71, Methods
     for the Examination of Waters and Associated Materials, Environment Agency,
     London.
         Methods to identify and enumerate bacterial pathogens in water              175

Steele, T.W. and McDermott, S.N. (1984) The use of membrane filters applied directly to
     the surface of agar plates for the isolation of Campylobacter jejuni from feces.
     Pathology 16, 263–265.
Steinert, M., Emody, L., Amann, R. and Hacker, J. (1997) Resuscitation of viable but
     nonculturable Legionella pneumophila Philadelphia JR32 by Acanthamoeba
     castellanii. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63(5), 2047–2053.
Steinert, M., Birkness, K., White, E., Fields, B. and Quinn, F. (1998) Mycobacterium
     avium bacilli grow saprozoically in coculture with Acanthamoeba polyphaga and
     survive within cyst walls. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(6), 2256–2261.
Steinmetz, I., Reinheimer, C. and Bitter-Suermann, D. (1992) Rapid identification of
     legionellae by a colony blot assay based on a genus-specific monoclonal antibody.
     J. Clin. Microbiol. 30(4), 1016–1018.
Stoner, D.L., Browning, C.K., Bulmer, D.K., Ward, T.E. and Macdonell, M.T. (1996)
     Direct 5S rRNA assay for monitoring mixed-culture bioprocesses. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 62(6), 1969–1976.
Storey, M.V. and Ashbolt, N.J. (2002) A risk model for enteric virus accumulation and
     release from reuse water biofilms. In Proceedings of the IWA 3rd World Water
     Congress, Melbourne, Australia, 7–12 April 2002, IWA Publishing, Melbourne.
Szewzyk, U., Manz, W., Amann, R., Schleifer, K.-H. and Stenström, T.-A. (1994)
     Growth and in situ detection of a pathogenic Escherichia coli in biofilms of a
     heterotrophic water-bacterium by use of 16S- and 23S-rRNA-directed fluorescent
     oligonucleotide probes. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 13(3), 169–176.
Szewzyk, U., Szewzyk, R., Manz, W. and Schleifer, K.H. (2000) Microbiological safety
     of drinking water. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 54, 81–127.
Tanaka, Y., Yamaguchi, N. and Nasu, M. (2000) Viability of Escherichia coli O157:H7
     in natural river water determined by the use of flow cytometry. J. Appl. Microbiol.
     88(2), 228–236.
Taormina, P.J., Rocelle, M., Clavero, S. and Beuchat, L.R. (1998) Comparison of
     selective agar media and enrichment broths for recovering heat-stressed Escherichia
     coli O157:H7 from ground beef. Food Microbiol. 15, 631–638.
Tikoo, A., Tripathi, A.K., Verma, S.C., Agrawal, N. and Nath, G. (2001) Application of
     PCR fingerprinting techniques for identification and discrimination of Salmonella
     isolates. Curr. Sci. 80(8), 1049–1052.
Torrance, L. (1999) Immunological detection and quantification methods. In Proceedings
     of the OECD Workshop on Molecular Methods for Safe Drinking Water, Interlaken
     ’98
     (http://www.eawag.ch/publications_e/proceedings/oecd/proceedings/Torrance.pdf),
     Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Torrella, F. and Morita, R.Y. (1981) Microcultural study of bacterial size changes and
     microcolony and ultramicrocolony formation by heterotrophic bacteria in sea water.
     Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 41(2), 518–527.
Toze, S. (1999) PCR and the detection of microbial pathogens in water and wastewater.
     Water Res. 33(17), 3545–3556.
Tyler, K.D., Wang, G., Tyler, S.D. and Johnson, W.M. (1997) Factors affecting
     reliability and reproducibility of amplification-based DNA fingerprinting of
     representative bacterial pathogens. J. Clin. Microbiol. 35(2), 339–346.
van der Kooij, D. (1999) Potential for biofilm development in drinking water distribution
     systems. J. Appl. Microbiol. 85(Suppl. S), 39S–44S.
176                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Velazquez, M. and Feirtag, J.M. (1999) Helicobacter pylori: characteristics,
    pathogenicity, detection methods and mode of transmission implicating foods and
    water. Int. J. Food Microbiol. 53(2–3), 95–104.
Versalovic, J., Koeuth, T. and Lupski, J.R. (1991) Distribution of repetitive DNA
    sequences in eubacteria and application to fingerprinting bacterial genomes. Nucleic
    Acids Res. 19(24), 6823–6831.
Wang, D.Y., Keller, J.M. and Carson, C.A. (2001) Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
    pattern recognition of bacterial DNA: A systemic approach. Pattern Anal. Appl.
    4(4), 244–255.
Watkins, J. and Xiangrong, J. (1997) Cultural methods of detection for microorganisms:
    recent advances and successes. In The Microbiological Quality of Water (ed. D.W
    Sutcliffe), pp. 19–27, Freshwater Biological Association, Ambleside.
Wayne, L.G., Good, R.C., Bottger, E.C., Butler, R., Dorsch, M., Ezaki, T., Gross, W.,
    Jonas, V., Kilburn, J., Kirschner, P., Krichevsky, M.I., Ridell, M., Shinnick, T.M.,
    Springer, B., Stackebrandt, E., Tarnok, I., Tarnok, Z., Tasaka, H., Vincent, V.,
    Warren, N.G., Knott, C.A. and Johnson, R. (1996) Semantide- and chemotaxonomy-
    based analyses of some problematic phenotypic clusters of slowly growing
    mycobacteria, a cooperative study of the International Working Group On
    Mycobacterial Taxonomy. Int. J. Syst. Bacteriol. 46(1), 280–297.
Welsh, J. and McClelland, M. (1990) Fingerprinting genomes using PCR with arbitary
    primers. Nucleic Acids Res. 18(24), 7213–7218.
WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, vol. 2, Health Criteria
    and Other Supporting Information. World Health Organization, Geneva.
Wu, L., Thompson, D.K., Li, G., Hurt, R.A., Tiedje, J.M. and Zhou, J. (2001)
    Development and evaluation of functional gene arrays for detection of selected
    genes in the environment. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 67(12), 5780–5790.
Yu, H. and Bruno, J.G. (1996) Immunomagnetic-electrochemiluminescent detection of
    Escherichia coli O157 and Salmonella typhimurium in foods and environmental
    water samples. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62(2), 587–592.
10
Conditions favouring coliform and
HPC bacterial growth in drinking-
water and on water contact surfaces
M.W. LeChevallier




10.1 INTRODUCTION
A biofilm is a collection of organic and inorganic, living and dead material
collected on a surface. It may be a complete film, or, more commonly in water
systems, it is a small patch on a pipe surface. Biofilms in drinking-water pipe
networks can be responsible for a wide range of water quality and operational
problems. Biofilms contribute to loss of distribution system disinfectant
residuals, increased bacterial levels, reduction of dissolved oxygen, taste and
odour changes, red or black water problems due to iron- or sulfate-reducing
bacteria, microbial influenced corrosion, hydraulic roughness and reduced
material life (Characklis and Marshall 1990).

 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
178                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety




Figure 10.1. Examples of biofilm bacteria.

   Microorganisms in biofilms can include bacteria (including coccoid [round],
rod-shaped, filamentous and appendaged bacteria) (Figure 10.1), fungi and
higher organisms, such as nematodes, larvae and crustaceans. Recently,
researchers have shown that viruses and parasites like Cryptosporidium can be
trapped in biofilms (Quignon et al. 1997; Piriou et al. 2000). Although viruses
and Cryptosporidium do not grow in a biofilm, they can attach to biofilms after
a contamination event. Therefore, it is important to thoroughly flush the
distribution system to remove these organisms following a contamination event.
   A primary reason why many water utilities in the USA become concerned
with biofilms in drinking-water systems is due to growth of coliform bacteria
within the pipe network. In 2000 in the USA alone, nearly 6988 water systems
affecting 10.5 million people violated drinking-water microbial standards (US
EPA, 2001). Of concern are the thousands of systems every year that are
significant non-compliers and repeatedly detect coliform bacteria in finished
drinking-water. Although some of these systems experience coliform
occurrences due to cross-connections and other operational defects, a large
proportion of the systems can trace their problems to regrowth of the bacteria in
distribution system biofilms. The large database of information on the growth of
coliform bacteria can be used to better understand the growth of heterotrophic
plate count (HPC) bacteria in water. This chapter reviews the factors that
influence bacterial growth in chlorinated water systems. The next chapter
examines conditions specific to water systems without a disinfectant residual.
This information can be used to formulate a bacterial growth control strategy.
                 Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water               179


10.2 GROWTH OF COLIFORM AND HPC BACTERIA IN
     WATER
Studies have examined data from a large number (over 90) of water systems to
determine the factors that contribute to the occurrence of coliform and HPC
bacteria in drinking-water (LeChevallier et al. 1996; Volk and LeChevallier
2000). These studies have shown that the occurrence of coliform and HPC
bacteria can be related to the following factors: filtration, temperature,
disinfectant type and residual, assimilable organic carbon (AOC) level,
corrosion control and pipe material selection.

10.2.1 Filtration
Four unfiltered surface water systems were included in one study (LeChevallier
et al. 1996) and accounted for 26.6% of the total number of bacterial samples
collected, but 64.3% (1013 of 1576) of the positive coliform samples. Although
the results do not suggest that treatment was inadequate (e.g., coliforms were
not related to breakthrough of treatment barriers), the data suggested that
filtration may be an important factor in preventing coliform regrowth. Following
the study, one of the systems installed filtration, and distribution system
coliform levels were reduced by a factor of three over the following 18-month
interval.

10.2.2 Temperature
On average, the occurrence of coliform bacteria was significantly higher when
water temperatures were above 15 °C (Figure 10.2). Temperature is widely
recognized as an important controlling factor in influencing bacterial growth. In
climates where water temperatures are warm, bacterial growth may be very
rapid. However, the minimum temperature at which microbial activity was
observed varied from system to system. Systems that typically experienced cold
water had increases in coliform occurrences when water temperatures ranged
near 10 °C. The strains of coliform bacteria in these systems may be better
adapted to grow at lower temperatures (psychrophiles).

10.2.3 Disinfectant residual and disinfectant level
For filtered systems, there was a difference between systems that maintained a
free chlorine residual and systems that used chloramines. For systems that used
free chlorine, 0.97% of 33 196 samples contained coliform bacteria, while
0.51% of 35 159 samples from chloraminated systems contained coliform
bacteria (statistically different at P < 0.0001). The average density of coliform
bacteria was 35 times higher in free chlorinated systems than in chloraminated
180                            HPC and Drinking-water Safety

systems (0.60 colony-forming units [cfu]/100 ml for free chlorinated water,
compared with 0.017 cfu/100 ml for chloraminated water). Previous research
(LeChevallier et al. 1990; LeChevallier 1991) has hypothesized that
chloramines may be able to better penetrate into distribution system biofilms
and inactivate attached bacteria.

              3.5                                              25
                                Temperature

               3
                                 cfu/100 mL                    20




                                                                    Temperature (°C)
              2.5
                                 % Positive
  Coliforms




                                                               15
               2


              1.5
                                                               10

               1
                                                               5
              0.5

               0                                               0
                    Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct
                       Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov



Figure 10.2. Relationship between monthly average water temperature and coliform
occurrence.

   The fact that different disinfectants may interact differently with biofilms can
be related to their different mechanisms of action. Free chlorine, for example, is
known to react with natural organic matter to form trihalomethanes (Rook
1974). Chloramines do not form these products to the same degree. Free
chlorine attacks the cytoplasmic membrane of Gram-negative bacteria to
produce a cellular lesion (injury) that results in an increased sensitivity to
surfactants (Zaske et al. 1980). Chloramines do not produce the same type of
injury as free chlorine, and the chloramine lesion can be reversed with a
reducing agent (sodium sulfite) (Watters et al. 1989). The penetration of free
chlorine into a biofilm has been shown to be limited by its fast reaction rate
(LeChevallier 1991; De Beer et al. 1994). Essentially, free chlorine is consumed
before it can react with the bacterial components of the film (Chen and Stewart
1996). Chloramines, on the other hand, are slower reacting and can diffuse into
the biofilm and eventually inactivate attached bacteria. This mechanism has
been elegantly demonstrated by researchers at Montana State University using
an alginate bead model (Chen and Stewart 1996). Stewart and colleagues (1999)
showed that free chlorine did not penetrate alginate beads containing bacterial
cells, but chloramines did penetrate into the alginate material and reduced
                 Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                   181

bacterial levels nearly one million-fold over a 60-min interval (2.5 mg
chloramines/litre, pH 8.9).
   The effectiveness of a chloramine residual for controlling coliform
occurrences attributed to biofilm regrowth in distribution pipelines is shown in
Figure 10.3. The system experienced coliform occurrences even when free
chlorine residuals averaged between 2 and 2.5 mg/litre in the distribution
system. Use of m-T7 medium, a technique that recovers injured bacteria
(LeChevallier et al. 1983), showed that coliform occurrence rates ranged
between 10 and 40% even during months when coliforms were not recovered on
the standard m-Endo medium. Conversion of the disinfectant to chloramines in
June 1993 resulted in dramatic decreases in coliform occurrences measured by
both m-Endo and m-T7 media, and the bacteria have not been detected in the
finished drinking-water for the three years following the change (Norton and
LeChevallier 1997).
   In addition to the type of disinfectant used, the residual maintained at the end
of the distribution system was also associated with coliform occurrences
(LeChevallier et al. 1996). Systems that maintained dead-end free chlorine
levels below 0.2 mg/litre or monochloramine levels below 0.5 mg/litre had
substantially more coliform occurrences than systems maintaining higher
disinfectant residuals. However, systems with high AOC levels needed to
maintain high disinfectant residuals to control coliform occurrences (Figure
10.4). Therefore, maintenance of a disinfectant residual alone did not ensure that
treated waters would be free of coliform bacteria.

10.2.4 AOC and BDOC levels
AOC is determined using a bioassay (van der Kooij 1990, 1992) and measures
the microbial response to biodegradable materials in water. The combined
results from two surveys of AOC levels in North American drinking-water
systems (LeChevallier et al. 1996; Volk and LeChevallier 2000) are shown in
Figure 10.5. The levels (summarized as the geometric mean based on 12–36
samples) range from 20 to 214 µg/litre. The results also indicate that the
majority of the total AOC is derived from the growth of the test organism,
Spirillum sp. strain NOX. This AOCNOX fraction is influenced by disinfection
practices (chlorine, ozone, etc.) and suggests that changes in these practices (i.e.,
the type of disinfectant, the point of application, dose) can impact AOC levels in
finished drinking-water.
182                           HPC and Drinking-water Safety




Figure 10.3. Coliform occurrence in a system before and after conversion from free
chlorine to chloramines. Coliform bacteria were enumerated using either m-T7 or m-
Endo media.

               250


               200
  AOC (µg/L)




               150


               100


                50


                 0
                     0   10    20    30    40     50     60      70     80      90

                                          P17       Total AOC
                                          NOX

Figure 10.4. Relationship between AOC and distribution system disinfectant residuals.
Systems that maintained high disinfectant residuals needed to do so because of high AOC
levels in the drinking-water networks. Reducing AOC levels would allow the systems to
utilize lower disinfectant residuals.
                   Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                        183




           150




           100




            50




             0
                  0-0.2   0.2-0.5   0.5-1.0   >1.0   0-0.5   0.5-1.0   1.0-2.0   >2.0



                 Free Chlorine                       Chloramines
Figure 10.5. AOC levels in 94 North American water systems.

   High levels of AOC can stimulate bacterial growth in distribution system
biofilms (LeChevallier et al. 1996; Volk and LeChevallier 2000). On average,
free chlorinated systems with AOC levels greater than 100 µg/litre had 82%
more coliform-positive samples, and the coliform densities were 19 times higher
than free chlorinated systems with average AOC levels less than 99 µg/litre.
However, high levels of AOC alone do not dictate the occurrence of coliform
bacteria in drinking-water, but are only one factor. Figure 10.6 illustrates a
decision tree that graphically depicts combinations of threshold values above
which the probability of coliform occurrence is increased (Volk and
LeChevallier 2000). As more of the threshold values are exceeded, the
probability of coliform occurrences is increased. In systems that do not maintain
a disinfectant residual, very low AOC levels (<10 µg/litre) are required to
minimize bacterial growth (van der Kooij 1990, 1992).
   Data summarized in Table 10.1 show that the frequency of coliform
occurrence was less than 2% when no threshold criteria were exceeded and
increased to 16% when all three criteria were exceeded. The magnitude (the
number of positive samples per event) also increased with a greater exceedance
of threshold criteria. Similar models developed for specific systems have
yielded higher predictive probabilities (Volk et al. 1992).
   Biodegradable dissolved organic carbon (BDOC) is another commonly used
assay to determine the concentration of nutrients available for bacterial growth
in water. The test measures the concentration of dissolved organic carbon before
and after bacterial growth in the sample. The difference in carbon levels
demonstrates the amount of nutrient readily available for bacterial growth (Joret
and Levi 1986). Levels of BDOC in North American water systems (Figure
10.7) ranged from 0 to 1.7 mg/litre, with a median level of 0.38 mg/litre.
184                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety




                                                       low    3    T
                                                                   h
                     >100 µg/l        Disinfectant                 r
                                                                   e
                                        residual                   s
                                                       high   2    h
                                                                   o

               AOC
                                                                   l
                                                       low    2
   >15ºC                              Disinfectant                 d

                                        residual                   v
                                                                   a
                      <100 µg/l                        high   1    r
                                                                   i
                                                                   a
TºC                                                    low    2
                                                                   b
                                                                   l
                                      Disinfectant                 e
                                                                   s
                      >100 µg/l         residual
      <15ºC                                            high    1   e
                                                                   x
                                                                   c

               AOC                                     low     1   e
                                                                   e
                                      Disinfectant                 d
                                                                   e
                       <100 µg/l        residual                   d
                                                       high    0


Figure 10.6. Decision tree for coliform occurrences in drinking-water.




Table 10.1. Relationship between threshold criteria and coliform occurrence
  Number of                                              Number of        Frequency of
   positive      Total number of Coliform-positive        coliform          coliform
   criteria           events          samples             episodes       observation (%)
      0                160               3                    3                1.9
      1                292              18                   15                 5
      2                191              24                   16                8.4
      3                 62              26                   10                16


10.2.5 Corrosion control and pipe materials
Most systems do not measure corrosion rates on a daily basis, so this parameter
is difficult to evaluate full-scale. However, research (LeChevallier et al. 1990,
1993) has demonstrated that corrosion of iron pipes can influence the
effectiveness of chlorine-based disinfectants for inactivation of biofilm bacteria.
Therefore, the choice of pipe material and the accumulation of corrosion
products can dramatically impact the ability to control the effects of biofilms in
drinking-water systems.
                             Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                              185


                     2.0



                     1.5
         BDOC mg/L




                     1.0



                     0.5



                     0.0
                           0.3   10.2   20.2   30.2   40.2   50.1   60.1   70.1   80.1   90.0   100.0
                                                  Percent Occurrence




Figure 10.7. BDOC levels in 30 North American water systems.

   Figure 10.8 shows the average monthly corrosion rates (in milles
[thousandths of an inch] per year) from a system in Illinois (Volk et al. 2000).
The conventional plant effluent corrosion rate showed marked seasonal
variations. Corrosion rates were the highest during the summer months when,
traditionally, the incidence of coliform occurrences is the highest (Figure 10.2).
The utility uses a zinc orthophosphate corrosion inhibitor to limit distribution
system corrosion rates. Increasing the phosphate dose during the summer
months (test data) lowers the corrosion rate. Similar seasonal variations have
been observed in other systems (Norton and LeChevallier 1997). This variation
in rates of corrosion is important, because the corrosion products react with
residual chlorine, preventing the biocide from penetrating the biofilm and
controlling bacterial growth. Studies have shown that free chlorine is impacted
to a greater extent than monochloramine, although the effectiveness of both
disinfectants is impaired if corrosion rates are not controlled (LeChevallier et al.
1990, 1993). Increasing the phosphate-based corrosion inhibitor dose, especially
during the summer months, can help reduce corrosion rates (Figure 10.8). In
full-scale studies, systems that used a phosphate-based corrosion inhibitor had
lower coliform levels than systems that did not practise corrosion control
(LeChevallier et al. 1996).
186                                 HPC and Drinking-water Safety


        8

         7                                                                        Corrosion PE
  Co
                                                                                  Corrosion Test
  rroPh                                                                           PO4-PE
  sioos 6                                                                         PO4-Test
  n ph
         5
  Ratate
  e (m 4
  (mig/L
  l/yr) 3
  )
         2

        1

        0
         Mar-96            Jun-96            Aug-96            Nov-96             Feb-97            Apr-97
                  May-96            Jul-96            Oct-96            Dec-96             Mar-97            May-97
Figure 10.8. Increasing phosphate levels can reduce corrosion rates (PE = plant effluent).

   In addition to the level of generalized corrosion, localized pitting can also
provide a protective habitat for bacterial proliferation. The pitting of certain
metal pipes can be accelerated by high levels of chloride and sulfate. The ratio
of chloride and sulfate to bicarbonate levels is known as the Larson index and
can indicate the propensity for pitting corrosion. Research has shown
(LeChevallier et al. 1993) that consideration of the level of generalized
corrosion, Larson index, corrosion inhibitor and disinfectant residual is
necessary to accurately predict the inactivation of biofilm bacteria (Table 10.2).


Table 10.2. Multiple linear regression model for monochloramine disinfection of biofilm
bacteria
                                                                  Standard                                   Significance
                                             Coefficient              error           t-statistic                    level
 Log reduction viable counts =
 Intercept                                      −1.0734             0.5685              −1.888                        0.0816
 Log Larson index                               −0.5808             0.1963              −2.958                        0.0111
 Log corrosion rate                             −0.4820             0.3205              −1.504                        0.1566
 Log monochloramine                              2.0086             0.9226               2.177                        0.0485
 Phosphate level                                 0.1445             0.0336               4.295                        0.0009

 Corrected R-squared:                                 0.746             F test:            13.474
 Model is based on 18 observations.
                 Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                187

    Studies have shown that the Larson index can vary seasonally in drinking-
water systems, with the highest levels occurring during the summer months
(LeChevallier et al. 1993). Factors that can influence the Larson index include
anything that increases chloride or sulfate levels (chlorine disinfection,
aluminium or ferric salts) or changes the alkalinity of the water (lime, soda ash
and sodium bicarbonate have a positive influence; hydrofluosilicic acid
[fluoride], chlorine gas and certain coagulants depress alkalinity).
    The pipe surface itself can influence the composition and activity of biofilm
populations. Studies have shown that biofilms developed more quickly on iron
pipe surfaces than on plastic polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes, despite the fact
that adequate corrosion control was applied, the water was biologically treated
to reduce AOC levels and chlorine residuals were consistently maintained (Haas
et al. 1983; Camper 1996). This stimulation of microbial communities on iron
pipes has been observed by other investigators (Camper 1996). In general, the
larger surface to volume ratio in smaller diameter pipes (compared with larger
pipes) results in a greater impact of biofilm bacteria on bulk water quality. The
greater surface area of small pipes also increases reaction rates that deplete
chlorine residuals.
    In addition to influencing the development of biofilms, the pipe surface has
also been shown to affect the composition of the microbial communities present
within the biofilm (Figure 10.9). Iron pipes supported a more diverse microbial
population than did PVC pipes (Norton and LeChevallier 2000). The purpose of
these studies is not to indicate that certain pipe materials are preferred over
others, but to demonstrate the importance of considering the type of materials
that come into contact with potable water. Various water contact materials may
leach materials that support bacterial growth. For example, pipe gaskets and
elastic sealants (containing polyamide and silicone) can be a source of nutrients
for bacterial proliferation. Colbourne et al. (1984) reported that Legionella were
associated with certain rubber gaskets. Organisms associated with joint-packing
materials include populations of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Chromobacter spp.,
Enterobacter aerogenes and Klebsiella pneumoniae (Schoenen 1986; Geldreich
and LeChevallier 1999). Pump lubricants should be non-nutritive to avoid
bacterial growth in treated water (White and LeChevallier 1993). Coating
compounds for storage reservoirs and standpipes can contribute organic
polymers and solvents that may support regrowth of heterotrophic bacteria
(Schoenen 1986; Thofern et al. 1987). Liner materials may contain bitumen,
chlorinated rubber, epoxy resin or tar-epoxy resin combinations that can support
bacterial regrowth (Schoenen 1986). PVC pipes and coating materials may leach
stabilizers that can result in bacterial growth. Studies performed in the United
Kingdom reported that coliform isolations were four times higher when samples
were collected from plastic taps than when collected from metallic faucets (cited
in Geldreich and LeChevallier 1999). Although procedures are available to
188                           HPC and Drinking-water Safety

evaluate growth stimulation of different materials (Bellen et al. 1993), these
tests are not universally applied, in part because they have not been adopted by
many standard-setting agencies.


                      Stenotrophomonas

         A                     74.0%


                                                                                    Other - Gram +

                                                                                             1.0%

                                                                                         Agrobacterium
                                                                                               4.0%



                                         Other - Gram -                          Nocardia
                                              1.0%                               20.0%




             B
                                                     Stenotrophomonas
                                                           4.0%
                          Pseudomonas                                   Acidovorax
                                16.0%
                                                                           24.0%


                  Other - Gram -
                       8.0%




                         Xanthobacter                               Nocardia
                               22.0%                                     26.0%




Figure 10.9. Microbial populations isolated from PVC (A) or iron pipe (B) surfaces.


   Distribution system maintenance, cleaning, relining of corroded pipes and
flushing of accumulated sediments and debris can help reduce the habitats
where bacteria grow in water systems. However, these procedures must be
routinely implemented, as they do not change the underlying reasons why the
bacteria were initially growing in the water supply. In one study (LeChevallier
et al. 1987), coliform bacteria reappeared within one week after flushing a
section of a distribution system, presumably because the organisms were
growing in other parts of the pipe network.
   Granular activated carbon (GAC) used in point-of-use treatment devices can
accumulate bacterial nutrients and neutralized disinfectant residuals, thus
providing an ideal environment for microbial growth (Tobin et al. 1981;
Geldreich et al. 1985; Reasoner et al. 1987; LeChevallier and McFeters 1988).
Several coliform species (Klebsiella, Enterobacter and Citrobacter) have been
                 Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                 189

found to colonize GAC filters, regrow during warm water periods and discharge
into the process effluent (Camper et al. 1986). The presence of a silver
bacteriostatic agent did not prevent the colonization and growth of HPC bacteria
in GAC filters (Tobin et al. 1981; Reasoner et al. 1987). Rodgers et al. (1999)
reported the growth of Mycobacterium avium in point-of-use filters in the
presence of 1000 µg silver/ml.

10.2.6 Residence time
Whenever drinking-water stagnates, microbial water quality degrades. Therefore,
an increase in hydraulic residence time is an important factor related to microbial
growth. With long residence times, chlorine residual tends to dissipate, water
temperatures rise and bacterial levels increase. Increases in coliform occurrences
have been related to distribution systems with a large number of storage tanks
(LeChevallier et al. 1996). When water velocity slows in these areas, sediments
can precipitate, creating habitats for bacterial growth. Increasing reservoir
turnover, looping dead-end pipes and flushing stagnant zones can help reduce
hydraulic residence times. Occasionally, mistakenly closed valves can crease
artificial dead-end pipelines. A routine flushing and valve maintenance
programme is helpful for identifying closed valves and improving the circulation
in the distribution system.


10.3BIOFILM CONTROL FOR BACTERIA OF POTENTIAL
     PUBLIC HEALTH SIGNIFICANCE
Growth of coliform and HPC bacteria in distribution system biofilms could be
considered a nuisance if they had no public health significance. Coliform
bacteria have traditionally been used to indicate the adequacy of drinking-
water treatment. A new interpretation of this indicator concept implies that
drinking-water is not adequately treated if coliform bacteria can proliferate in
distribution system biofilms. Although growth of HPC bacteria has been
limited as a means of reducing interference with the total coliform assay (US
EPA 1989), research now is focusing on whether opportunistic pathogens such
as Legionella pneumophila, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) or other
microbes can also proliferate.

10.3.1 Mycobacterium avium complex
A recent study (Falkinham et al. 2001; LeChevallier et al. 2001) examined
eight well characterized drinking-water systems, selected based on source
water type, AOC and BDOC levels, treatment processes and post-disinfectant
type (Table 10.3). Samples were collected monthly for 18 consecutive months
190                    HPC and Drinking-water Safety

from the raw water, plant/well effluent, a distribution system mid-point and a
dead-end site. Using a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method
(Kulski et al. 1995), 304 of 708 (43%) water isolates and 337 of 747 (45%)
biofilm isolates were identified as members of the genus Mycobacterium.
Using both the nested PCR method and a PCR-based technique involving
amplification of the 65-kilodalton heat-shock protein gene (hsp-65) followed
by digestion of the PCR product with restriction endonucleases (Telenti et al.
1993; Steingrube et al. 1995), 20% of the water isolates and 64% of the
biofilm isolates were identified as M. avium or M. intracellulare.
Additionally, 8% of the water isolates were identified as M. kansasii. MAC
organisms were detected in five of six surface water sites, ranging in
occurrence from 6 to 35% of the samples tested (Figure 10.10). The organisms
were not detected in any plant or well effluent sample. MAC organisms were
infrequently detected or recovered at low levels (<1 cfu/ml) in drinking-water
samples. However, M. avium and M. intracellulare were frequently isolated
from drinking-water biofilm samples (Figure 10.11). The data showed that M.
avium levels were reduced by conventional water treatment, but increase due
to regrowth in the distribution system. Increases in M. avium levels in
drinking-water correlated with levels of AOC (r2 = 0.65, P = 0.029) and
BDOC (r2 = 0.64, P = 0.031) (Falkinham et al. 2001).
   Other studies have also detected MAC organisms in drinking-water
distribution systems, with levels ranging between 0.08 and 45 000 cfu/ml
(Haas et al. 1983; du Moulin and Stottmeier 1986; Carson et al. 1988; du
Moulin et al. 1988; Fischeder et al. 1991; von Reyn et al. 1993; Glover et al.
1994; von Reyn et al. 1994; Covert et al. 1999). M. avium is resistant to
disinfectants, especially free chlorine (Taylor et al. 2000). The greatest
increase in MAC infections has been with HIV/AIDS patients, approximately
25–50% of whom suffer debilitating and life-threatening MAC infections
(Horsburgh 1991; Nightingale et al. 1992). The organism infects the
gastrointestinal or pulmonary tract, suggesting that food or water may be
important routes of transmission for HIV/AIDS patients.
   Limited data exist with which to evaluate the risk of M. avium infection
from water. Based on the low percentage (2.5%) and low levels (<1 cfu/ml) of
MAC isolated from the eight drinking-water systems, it appears that the risk
from MAC in drinking-water is low, but risks may be greater in systems with
high levels of AOC or BDOC. [Editors’ note: Because of the wide interest in
the potential public health significance of non-tuberculous mycobacteria in
water, including MAC, this will be the theme of a separate book in the same
series as this volume.]
Table 10.3. Summary of nutrient levels for full-scale systems.
                                                                                           Observed
                                                     Expected     Observed                  BDOC
           Source       Disinfectant type            nutrient    AOC levels                  levels
    Site   water        (pre/post)             n      levels      (µg/litre)1    Range    (mg/litre)2     Range
    1      Surface      Ozone/                16       High       234 (59)3     161–383   0.48 (0.19)   0.15–0.71
                        free chlorine
    2      Surface      Free chlorine         17     Medium       113 (41)      66–220    0.28 (0.17)   0.06–0.58
    3      Surface      Free chlorine         17      Low          61 (86)       21–391   0.04 (0.09)   0.0–0.34
    4      Ground       Free chlorine         17      Low          28 (43)        5–168   0.07 (0.18)   0.0–0.70
    5      Surface      Free chlorine/        16      High        215 (110)     127–484   0.70 (0.22)   0.31–1.0
                        monochloramine
    6      Surface      Free chlorine/        18     Medium       109 (80)      37–301    0.34 (0.20)   0.0–0.81
                        monochloramine
    7      Surface      Free chlorine/        17       Low4        98(53)       49–270    0.40 (0.16)   0.01–0.76
                        monochloramine
    8      Ground       Free chlorine/        17       Low         17 (9)        6–33     0.06 (0.08)   0.0–0.26
                        monochloramine
1
  Geometric mean.
2
  Average values.
3
  Numbers in parentheses represent standard deviations.
4
  Actual levels of AOC and BDOC were higher than expected for this site.
192                                                                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety




                        35
                        30
   % Samples Positive




                        25
                        20
                        15
                        10
                                                                                                                              7       8
                        5                                                                                    5       6
                                                                                                 3    4
                        0                                                                    2                       Chloramine
                                                                                        1
                              Raw                            PE              Dist.                          Site #
                                                                                        Free Chlorine



Figure 10.10. Occurrence of Mycobacterium avium complex in raw, plant effluent (PE)
and distribution system (Dist.) water samples (N = 528).




                                                        70

                                                        60
                                   % Samples Positive




                                                        50

                                                        40

                                                        30

                                                        20

                                                        10                                                                        7       8
                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                 5            Chloramine
                                                                                                      3     4
                                                         0                                       2
                                                                                             1                           Site #
                                                               la   re            ium       Free Chlorine
                                                    ac   e llu           M   . av
                                  i ntr
                             M.


Figure 10.11. Occurrence of Mycobacterium avium complex in distribution system
biofilm samples (N = 55).
                Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water               193


10.3.2 Legionella
Another example of how the understanding of the conditions that favour
bacterial growth in water can influence the public health quality of water is
demonstrated by the work of Kool and colleagues (1999). The researchers
examined 32 nosocomial outbreaks of Legionnaires’ disease from 1979 to 1997
where drinking-water was implicated and tabulated the characteristics of the
hospital (size, transplant programme) and the primary disinfectant treatment,
disinfectant residual, water source, community size and pH of the water. The
researchers found that the odds of a nosocomial Legionella outbreak was 10.2
(95% confidence interval of 1.4–460) times higher in systems that maintained
free chlorine than in those using a chloramine residual. They estimated that 90%
of waterborne Legionella outbreaks could be prevented if chloramines were
universally used. In unpublished work (www.apic.org), the researchers
examined a hospital experiencing problems with regrowth of Legionella in its
water system and converted the system from free chlorine to chloramines.
Levels of Legionella were 97.9 cfu/ml (n = 72) before and 0.13 cfu/ml (n = 104)
after treatment with 0.1 mg chloramines/litre. Cunliffe (1990) reported that
suspensions of Legionella pneumophila were more sensitive to monochloramine
disinfection, with a 99% level of inactivation when exposed to 1.0 mg
monochloramine/litre for 15 min, compared with the 37-min contact time
required for Escherichia coli inactivation under similar conditions. The WHO
publication Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis, scheduled for
publication in 2003, should be consulted as an additional source of information
(WHO, in revision).

10.3.3 Other organisms
Water utilities are increasingly being challenged to address other
microorganisms that potentially can regrow in distribution systems, including
Aeromonas spp., Acanthamoeba and possibly Helicobacter pylori (van der
Kooij et al. 1980; US EPA 1998; Park et al. 2001). It is likely that conditions
that limit the growth of coliform and HPC bacteria also influence these
microbes.


10.4 CONCLUSIONS
The occurrence of bacterial regrowth within distribution systems is dependent
upon a complex interaction of chemical, physical, operational and engineering
parameters. No single factor could account for all the coliform occurrences, so
the environmental scientist must consider all of the above parameters in
devising a solution to the regrowth problem. Even systems that do not
experience bacterial regrowth problems may want to more closely examine
194                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

biofilm control strategies as a means of limiting the occurrence of opportunistic
pathogens such as MAC, Legionella or other emerging pathogens in drinking-
water pipeline and plumbing systems. Increases in HPC bacterial levels can be
a useful indicator of these regrowth conditions. These elements should be
included in a comprehensive water safety plan to protect the microbial safety of
potable water supplies.


10.5 REFERENCES
Bellen, G.E., Abrishami, S.H., Colucci, P.M. and Tremel, C. (1993) Methods for
     Assessing the Biological Growth Support Potential of Water Contact Materials. pp.
     1–113, American Water Works Association Research Foundation, Denver, CO.
Camper, A. (1996) Factors Limiting Microbial Growth in Distribution Systems:
     Laboratory and Pilot-Scale Experiments. pp. 1–121, American Water Works
     Association Research Foundation, Denver, CO.
Camper, A.K., LeChevallier, M.W., Broadway, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1986) Bacteria
     associated with granular activated carbon particles in drinking water. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 52, 434–438.
Carson, L.A., Bland, L.A., Cusick, L.B., Favero, M.S., Bolan, G.A., Reingold A.L. and
     Good, R.C. (1988) Prevalence of nontuberculous mycobacteria in water supplies of
     hemodialysis centers. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54, 3122–3125.
Characklis, W.G. and Marshall, K.C. (1990) Biofilms. John Wiley & Sons, New York.
Chen, X. and Stewart, P.S. (1996) Chlorine penetration into artificial biofilm is limited
     by a reaction-diffusion interaction. Environ. Sci. Technol. 30(6), 2078–2083.
Colbourne, J.S., Pratt, D.J., Smith, M.G., Fisher-Hoch, S.P. and Harper, D. (1984) Water
     fittings as sources of Legionella pneumophila in hospital plumbing system. Lancet i,
     210–213.
Covert, T.C., Rodgers, M.R., Reyes, A.L. and Stelma, G.N., Jr. (1999) Occurrence of
     nontuberculous mycobacteria in environmental samples. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     65(6), 2492–2496.
Cunliffe, D.A. (1990) Inactivation of Legionella pneumophila by monochloramine. J.
     Appl. Bacteriol. 68(5), 453–459.
De Beer, D., Srinivasan, R. and Stewart, P.S. (1994) Direct measurement of chlorine
     penetration into biofilms during disinfection. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60(12),
     4339–4344.
du Moulin, G.C. and Stottmeier, K.D. (1986) Waterborne mycobacteria: an increasing
     threat to health. Am. Soc. Microbiol. News 52, 525–529.
du Moulin, G.C., Stottmeier, K.D., Pelletier, P.A., Tsang, A.Y. and Hedley-Whyte, J.
     (1988) Concentration of Mycobacterium avium by hospital hot water systems. J.
     Am. Med. Assoc. 260, 1599–1601.
Falkinham, J.O., III, Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2001) Factors influencing
     numbers of Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and other
     mycobacteria in drinking water distribution systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     67(3), 1225–1231.
Fischeder, R., Schulze-Röbbecke, R. and Weber, A. (1991) Occurrence of mycobacteria
     in drinking water samples. Zentralbl. Hyg. 192, 154–158.
Geldreich, E.E. and LeChevallier, M.W. (1999) Microbial water quality in distribution
     systems. In Water Quality and Treatment, 5th edn (ed. R.D. Letterman), pp. 18.1–
     18.49, McGraw-Hill, New York.
                  Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                      195

Geldreich, E.E., Taylor, R.H., Blannon, J.C. and Reasoner, D.J. (1985) Bacterial
     colonization of point-of-use water treatment devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 77,
     72–80.
Glover, N., Holtzman, A., Aronson, T., Froman, S., Berlin, O.G.W., Dominguez, P.,
     Kunkel, K.A., Overturf, G., Stelma, G., Jr., Smith, C. and Yakrus, M. (1994) The
     isolation and identification of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) recovered
     from Los Angeles potable water, a possible source of infection in AIDS patients.
     Int. J. Environ. Health Res. 4, 63–72.
Haas, C.N., Meyer, M.A. and Paller, M.S. (1983) The ecology of acid-fast organisms in
     water supply, treatment, and distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 75,
     139–144.
Horsburgh, C.R. (1991) Mycobacterium avium complex infection in the acquired
     immunodeficiency syndrome. New Engl. J. Med. 324, 1332–1338.
Joret, J.C. and Levi, Y. (1986) Méthode rapide d’évaluation du carbone éliminable des
     eaux par voie biologique. Trib. Cebedeau 510(39), 3–9.
Kool, J.L., Carpenter, J.C. and Fields, B.S. (1999) Effect of monochloramine disinfection
     of municipal drinking water on risk of nosocomial Legionnaires’ disease. Lancet
     353(9149), 272–277.
Kulski, J.K., Khinsoe, C., Pryce, T. and Christiansen, K. (1995) Use of multiplex PCR to
     detect and identify Mycobacterium avium and M. intracellulare in blood culture
     fluids of AIDS patients. J. Clin. Microbiol. 33, 668–674.
LeChevallier, M.W. (1991) Biocides and the current status of biofouling control in water
     systems. In Proceedings of an International Workshop on Industrial Biofouling and
     Biocorrosion, pp. 113–132, Springer-Verlag, New York.
LeChevallier, M.W. and McFeters, G.A. (1988) Microbiology of activated carbon. In
     Drinking Water Microbiology, Progress and Recent Developments (ed. G.A.
     McFeters), pp. 104–119, Springer-Verlag, New York.
LeChevallier, M.W., Cameron, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1983) New medium for the
     improved recovery of coliform bacteria from drinking water. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 45, 484–492.
LeChevallier, M.W., Babcock, R.M. and Lee, R.G. (1987) Examination and
     characterization of distribution system biofilms. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54,
     2714–2724.
LeChevallier, M.W., Lowry, C.D. and Lee, R.G. (1990) Disinfecting biofilms in a model
     distribution system. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 82(7), 87–99.
LeChevallier, M.W., Lowry, C.D., Lee, R.G. and Gibbon, D.L. (1993) Examining the
     relationship between iron corrosion and the disinfection of biofilm bacteria. J. Am.
     Water Works Assoc. 85(7), 111–123.
LeChevallier, M.W., Welch, N.J. and Smith, D.B. (1996) Full-scale studies of factors
     related to coliform regrowth in drinking water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62(7),
     2201–2211.
LeChevallier, M.W., Norton, C.D., Falkinham, J.O., III, Williams, M.D., Taylor, R.H.
     and Cowan, H.E. (2001) Occurrence and Control of Mycobacterium avium
     Complex. pp. 1–115, AWWA Research Foundation and American Water Works
     Association, Denver, CO.
Nightingale, S.D., Byrd, L.T., Southern, P.M., Jockusch, J.D., Cal, S.X. and Wynne,
     B.A. (1992) Mycobacterium avium–intracellulare complex bacteremia in human
     immunodeficiency virus positive patients. J. Infect. Dis. 165, 1082–1085.
Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (1997) Chloramination: its effect on distribution
     system water quality. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 89(7), 66–77.
196                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000) A pilot study of bacteriological population
     changes through potable water treatment and distribution. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     66(1), 268–276.
Park, S.R., MacKay, W.G. and Reid, D.C. (2001) Helicobacter sp. recovered from
     drinking water biofilm samples from a water distribution system. Water Res. 35(6),
     1624–1626.
Piriou, P., Helmi, K., Jousset, M., Castel, N., Guillot, E. and Kiene, L. (2000) Impact of
     biofilm on C. parvum persistence in distribution systems. In Proceedings of an
     International Distribution System Research Symposium, 10–11 June, American
     Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Quignon, F., Sardin, M., Kiene, L. and Schwartzbrod, L. (1997) Poliovirus-1 inactivation
     and interaction with biofilm: a pilot-scale study. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63(3),
     978–982.
Reasoner, D.J., Blannon, J.C. and Geldreich, E.E. (1987) Microbiological characteristics
     of third-faucet point-of-use devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 79(10), 60–66.
Rodgers, M.R., Backstone, B.J., Reyers, A.L. and Covert, T.C. (1999) Colonisation of
     point-of-use water filters by silver resistant non-tuberculous mycobacteria. J. Clin.
     Pathol. 52(8), 629.
Rook, J. (1974) The formation of haloforms during chlorination of natural waters. Water
     Treat. Exam. 23, 234–243.
Schoenen, D. (1986) Microbial growth due to materials used in drinking water systems.
     In Biotechnology, vol. 8 (ed. H.J. Rehm and G. Reed), VCH Verlagsgesellschaft,
     Weinheim.
Steingrube, V.A., Gibson, J.L., Brown, R.A., Zhang, Y., Wilson, R.W., Rajagopalan, M.
     and Wallace, R.J., Jr. (1995) PCR amplification and restriction endonuclease
     analysis of a 65-kilodalton heat shock protein gene sequence for taxonomic
     separation of rapidly growing mycobacteria. J. Clin. Microbiol. 33, 149–153.
Stewart, P.S., McFeters, G.A. and Huang, C.-T. (1999) Biofilm control by antimicrobial
     agents. In Biofilms, 2nd edn (ed. J.D. Bryers), John Wiley & Sons, New York.
Taylor, R.H., Falkinham, J.O., III, Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000)
     Chlorine, chloramine, chlorine dioxide, and ozone susceptibility of Mycobacterium
     avium. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 66(4), 1702–1705.
Telenti, A., Marchesi, F., Balz, M., Bally, R., Böttger, E.C. and Bodmer, T. (1993) Rapid
     identification of mycobacteria to the species level by polymerase chain reaction and
     restriction enzyme analysis. J. Clin. Microbiol. 31, 175–178.
Thofern, E., Schoenen, D. and Tuschewitzki, G.J. (1987) Microbial surface colonization
     and disinfection problems. Offentl. Gesundh.-wes. 49(Suppl.), 14–20.
Tobin, R.S., Smith, D.K. and Lindsay, J.A. (1981) Effects of activated carbon and
     bacteriostatic filters on microbiological quality of drinking water. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 41(3), 646–651.
US EPA (1989) 40 CFR Parts 141 and 142 Drinking Water; National Primary Drinking
     Water Rules and Regulations; filtration, disinfection; turbidity, Giardia lamblia,
     viruses, Legionella, and heterotrophic bacteria; final rule. US Environmental
     Protection Agency. Fed. Regist. 54(124), 27486–27541.
US EPA (1998) Announcement of the drinking water contaminant candidate list; notice.
     US Environmental Protection Agency. Fed. Regist. 63(40), 10274–10287.
US EPA (2001) Factoids: Drinking Water and Ground Water Statistics for 2000. EPA
     816-K-01-004, Office of Water, US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington,
     DC (www.epa.gov/safewater).
                  Conditions favouring growth in drinking-water                     197

van der Kooij, D. (1990) Assimilable organic carbon (AOC) in drinking water. In
    Drinking Water Microbiology (ed. G.A. McFeters), pp. 57–87, Springer-Verlag,
    New York.
van der Kooij, D. (1992) Assimilable organic carbon as an indicator of bacterial
    regrowth. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 84, 57–65.
van der Kooij, D., Visser, A. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1980) Growth of Aeromonas
    hydrophila at low concentrations of substrates added to tap water. Appl. Environ.
    Microbiol. 39(6), 1198–1204.
Volk, C.J. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000) Assessing biodegradable organic matter. J.
    Am. Water Works Assoc. 92(5), 64–76.
Volk, C., Renner, C. and Joret, J.C. (1992) The measurement of BDOC: an index of
    bacterial regrowth potential in water. Rev. Sci. Eau 5(n special), 189–205.
Volk, C., Dundore, E., Schiermann, J. and LeChevallier, M. (2000) Practical evaluation
    of iron corrosion control in a drinking water distribution system. Water Res. 34(6),
    1967–1974.
von Reyn, C.F., Waddell, R.D., Eaton, T., Arbeit, R.D., Maslow, J.N., Barber, T.W.,
    Brindle, R.J., Gilks, C.F., Lumio, J., Lähdevirta, J., Ranki, A., Dawson, D. and
    Falkinham, J.O., III (1993) Isolation of Mycobacterium avium complex from water
    in the United States, Finland, Zaire, and Kenya. J. Clin. Microbiol. 31, 3227–3230.
von Reyn, C.F., Maslow, J.N., Barber, T.W., Falkinham, J.O., III and Arbeit, R.D. (1994)
    Persistent colonisation of potable water as a source of Mycobacterium avium
    infection in AIDS. Lancet 343, 1137–1141.
Watters, S.K., Pyle, B.H., LeChevallier, M.W. and McFeters, G.A. (1989) Enumeration
    of Enterobacter cloacae after chloramine exposure. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 55,
    3226–3228.
White, D.R. and LeChevallier, M.W. (1993) AOC associated with oils from lubricating
    well pumps. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 85(8), 112–114.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
Zaske, S.K., Dockins, W.S. and McFeters, G.A. (1980) Cell envelope damage in E. coli
    caused by short term stress in water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 40(2), 386–390.
11
Managing regrowth in drinking-
water distribution systems
D. van der Kooij




11.1 INTRODUCTION
Colony counts of bacteria on or in solid media containing organic compounds as
sources of energy and carbon give information about the concentration of culturable
heterotrophic bacteria in water or other environments under investigation. This so-
called heterotrophic plate count (HPC), originally developed in 1881 by Robert
Koch, was the first tool for monitoring the microbial quality of (treated) water.
Within a few years after its introduction, the method was used in many European
countries, and soon data came available on HPCs in both raw and treated water
(Frankland and Frankland 1894).
    A value of 100 cfu/ml had been defined as the first microbial water quality
criterion (Koch 1893). However, storage of samples of treated water gave increased
plate counts, and it was found that bacteria contributing to HPC values were able to

 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
200                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

grow in treated water at very low concentrations of organic compounds (Frankland
and Frankland 1894). Many studies were conducted at the end of the 19th century to
identify bacteria present in drinking-water and to elucidate their public health
significance. For this purpose, pure cultures were inoculated into animals. The
results of these studies and the inability of most bacteria to multiply at body
temperature demonstrated that HPC values of water had no direct hygienic
significance (Zimmermann 1890; Frankland and Frankland 1894; Kayser 1900;
Haenle 1903).
   At the beginning of the 20th century, the concept of testing water for bacteria of
faecal origin was introduced to assess the hygienic safety of treated water (Eijkmann
1904). Methods and media for the detection of faecal indicator bacteria were
developed and improved continuously in the course of the century. The Milwaukee
outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in 1993 convincingly demonstrated that absence of
coliforms does not always ensure microbial safety (Craun et al. 1997). Methods for
the detection of pathogens are becoming more important for assessing the safety of
water treatment. The focus on detection methods for pathogens is the result of both
the limitations of the indicator bacteria concept and developments in the field of
molecular microbiology, enabling the design of methods for specific and rapid
detection of a large variety of bacteria, viruses and protozoa.
   Despite the developments in assessing the hygienic safety of treated water, the
HPC method has remained a generally applied water quality parameter, and criteria
are included in legislation related to the quality of treated water in many countries
(e.g., European Union 1998). HPC values provide information about the level of
microbial activity in water and therefore can be used to control and optimize
treatment processes, procedures and good engineering practices related to water
treatment and distribution.
   The objective of this chapter is to describe measures for controlling regrowth,
with specific emphasis on systems in which treated water is distributed routinely
with no or a low disinfectant residual. Brief descriptions are given of the problems
caused by biological processes in distribution systems (“regrowth”), methods for
determining microbial activity and methods for the assessment of the growth
potential (biological stability) of water and materials.


11.2 PROBLEMS RELATED TO MICROBIAL ACTIVITY
11.2.1 Regrowth, biofilms and microbial activity
An increase of HPC values in treated water during distribution is generally
described as regrowth or aftergrowth. These descriptions suggest that
microorganisms start multiplying in water some time after leaving the treatment
facility (Brazos and O’Connor 1996). However, multiplication in distribution
                  Managing regrowth in distribution systems                 201

systems mainly takes place on the water-exposed surfaces of the pipes and in
sediments, even in the presence of a disinfectant residual. The increase of HPC
values in water during distribution thus is mainly due to bacteria originating
from biofilms and sediments (LeChevallier et al. 1987; van der Wende et al.
1989). However, these HPC values are not suited for the identification of water
quality problems as may be caused by the multiplication of microorganisms in
distribution systems. A number of water quality problems related to microbial
activity are described below. More detailed descriptions have been given in
earlier reviews (e.g., Olson and Nagy 1984; LeChevallier 1990) and in other
chapters in this book.

11.2.2 Coliforms
Multiplication of coliforms in distribution systems has been reported since the
beginning of the 20th century. Baylis (1930) found that these organisms grew in
sediments accumulating in the distribution system. Howard (1940) also reported
multiplication of coliforms in a distribution system during summer. Redwood
reservoirs were found to stimulate growth of Klebsiella (Seidler et al. 1977).
Also, coatings were found to stimulate coliform growth (Ellgas and Lee 1980).
Wierenga (1985) reported coliform occurrences in distribution systems in the
presence of a free chlorine residual. A national survey in the USA revealed that
about 18% of the responding companies experienced non-compliance with
coliforms, most likely due to multiplication of these organisms in the
distribution system (Smith et al. 1990). Coliforms can multiply at low substrate
concentrations (van der Kooij and Hijnen 1988b; Camper et al. 1991). Growth-
promoting conditions include concentration of available substrates, water
temperature, corrosion, presence of sediments and disinfectant residual
(LeChevallier 1990; LeChevallier et al. 1996) and are described below and also
in chapter 10 of this book.

11.2.3 Opportunistic pathogens
In recent decades, concern has increased about the multiplication of
opportunistic pathogens in distribution systems and in plumbing systems. Such
organisms include Aeromonas spp., Flavobacterium spp., Legionella species,
especially L. pneumophila, Mycobacterium spp. and Pseudomonas spp.,
especially P. aeruginosa. A few characteristics of these organisms are described
below. Detailed descriptions of the significance of Aeromonas (WHO 2002),
Legionella (WHO, in revision) and Mycobacterium (some non-tuberculous
mycobacteria, including Mycobacterium avium complex, are the subject of a
202                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

separate book in the same series as this volume) in relation to drinking-water
safety either have been given elsewhere or are being prepared.
   Aeromonas is a common component of the bacterial population of drinking-
water in distribution systems but comprises only a small fraction of the
heterotrophic population (Leclerc and Buttiaux 1962; Schubert 1976; van der
Kooij 1977; LeChevallier et al. 1982; Havelaar et al. 1990). Reports of Burke et
al. (1984) caused concern about the possible health effects of Aeromonas in
drinking-water. In a national survey in the Netherlands, no evidence was
obtained that the aeromonads present in drinking-water were enteric pathogens
(Havelaar et al. 1992). Still, in drinking-water legislation in the Netherlands, a
maximum value for Aeromonas of 1000 cfu/100 ml is included, aiming at
limiting the exposure of the consumer to this organism (VROM 2001).
   Pigmented bacteria, including Flavobacterium spp., constitute a significant
proportion of the HPC values in treated water (Reasoner et al. 1989). Certain
Flavobacterium spp. have been identified as opportunistic pathogens (Herman
1978).
   Of the potential pathogens, Legionella has attracted most attention,
particularly after its discovery in plumbing systems in connection with disease
(Tobin et al. 1980; Cordes et al. 1981; Wadowsky et al. 1982). Numerous
reports are available about cases of legionellosis caused by exposure to aerosols
of warm tap water containing Legionella. Certain protozoans grazing on bacteria
in biofilms and sediments can serve as hosts for Legionella (Rowbotham 1980;
Abu Kwaik et al. 1998).
   Mycobacterium spp., including M. kansasii, M. avium, M. chelonae and M.
fortuitum, originating from water supplies have been associated with lung
infections (McSwiggan and Collins 1974; Engel et al. 1980; Kaustova et al.
1981; Von Reyn et al. 1994). These bacteria, which are highly resistant to
chlorine (Carson et al. 1978; Haas et al. 1983; Taylor et al. 2000), can multiply
in dead ends of distribution systems and in biofilms (Schulze-Röbbecke and
Fischeder 1989; Fischeder et al. 1991; Falkinham et al. 2001).
   P. aeruginosa is not a normal constituent of the bacterial population of
treated water (Lantos et al. 1969; Hoadley 1977; Hardalo and Edberg 1997),
probably because it cannot compete effectively with the related species P.
fluorescens, which grows at lower temperatures (van der Kooij et al. 1982b).
Even the fluorescent pseudomonads, which in most cases are unable to multiply
at 37 ºC, constitute only a small part of the bacterial population of tap water
(van der Kooij 1977).
   The opportunistic pathogens mentioned above usually remain undetected
with the media used for HPC determination, because the organisms either
cannot produce colonies on these media or are typically only a very small
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                   203

fraction of the HPC values. Their detection therefore requires selective media or
molecular methods (Manz et al. 1993; Schwartz et al. 1998).

11.2.4 Increased HPC values
In the second half of the 20th century, granular activated carbon filtration and
ozonation were introduced to limit concentrations of undesirable organic
compounds in water. These developments and more detailed definitions of
microbial water quality criteria increased the focus on HPC values in treated
water during distribution. Geldreich et al. (1972) concluded that the risk of
pathogen contamination increases as the general bacterial population increases
and that HPC values (two days, 35 ºC) above 500 cfu/ml hampered coliform
detection. A problem with HPC values is the diversity of methods used in
practice. Typical methods are pour plate count incubated at 35 ºC (or 37 ºC) for
one or two days or at 20–22 ºC for two or three days and 20–25 ºC spread plate
count on diluted agar medium incubated for 7–14 days. Distribution of water
treated with ozone as a final treatment step (followed by post-chlorination) gave
increased HPC values (three days, 20 ºC) ranging from 103–104 cfu/ml in
distribution pipes (Berger 1970; Dietlicher 1970; Stalder and Klosterkötter
1976; van der Kooij et al. 1977). Incubation of ozonated water in batch tests
gave HPC values (three days, 22 ºC) above 105 cfu/ml, which clearly
demonstrated that ozonation increased the growth potential of water (Snoek
1970). In chlorinated supplies, increases of HPC values to more than 104 cfu/ml
have been reported, usually in situations where chlorine residual became less
than 0.1 mg/litre (Rizet et al. 1982; Maul et al. 1985; Prévost et al. 1997, 1998).
With the use of R2A medium (seven days, 22 ºC), values up to 105 cfu/ml were
observed (Reasoner and Geldreich 1985; Maki et al. 1986). LeChevallier et al.
(1987) reported HPC values on R2A medium ranging from 320 to 1.3 × 107
cfu/ml in one supply. In a survey in the Netherlands in a summer–autumn
period, median HPC values on diluted broth agar medium (14 days, 25 ºC) in 19
different water supplies, nearly all without disinfectant residual, ranged from
about 150 cfu/ml to 1.6 × 104/ml. On plate count agar medium (three days,
25 ºC), HPC values ranged from 3 to 550 cfu/ml (van der Kooij 1992) (Figure
11.1).
   Obviously, some increase of HPC values in treated water during distribution
is quite common. The extent of the increase depends on the medium used, the
disinfectant residual and the growth-promoting conditions in the systems, as will
be discussed below.
204                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety




Figure 11.1. HPC values in 19 distribution systems in the Netherlands in a summer–
autumn period. PCA, plate count agar, incubated three days at 25 ºC; DBA, diluted broth
agar, incubated for 10 days at 25 ºC. 90-P, 90th-percentile value of the sample series
(adapted from van der Kooij 1992).


11.2.5 Nuisance organisms
Discoloured water containing iron bacteria is one of the earliest described
problems related to the activity of microorganisms in treated water. De Vries
(1890) studied the presence of the iron-precipitating organism Crenothrix in the
distribution system of the water supply of Rotterdam. This organism had also
been observed in other supplies in Europe, even before techniques for culturing
bacteria had been developed. Many investigators since then have reported on
iron-accumulating bacteria, including Gallionella and Lepthothrix, in relation to
corroding pipes (Clark et al. 1967; McMillan and Stout 1977; Tuovinen et al.
1980; Ridgway and Olson 1981; Ridgway et al. 1981).
   Fungi and actinomycetes are usually present in low numbers in distribution
systems (Silvey and Roach 1953; Burman 1965; Dott and Waschko-Dransmann
1981; Nagy and Olson 1982, 1985, 1986). These organisms have been
associated with taste and odour complaints. Certain actinomycetes are able to
degrade natural rubber sealing rings, which may lead to leakage (Leeflang
1968). Water supplies using anaerobic groundwater as a raw water source may
contain methane-utilizing bacteria (Schweisfurth and Ruf 1976; Tuschewitski et
al. 1982). These bacteria do not contribute to HPC values, but their biomass
may lead to fouling of the system and serve as food source for protozoa and
invertebrates. Also, nitrifying bacteria may be found in such water types when
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                 205

ammonia removal is incomplete or when monochloramine is used as a
disinfectant in distribution systems (Wolfe et al. 1990; Skadsen 1993). Growth
of these bacteria results in nitrite formation and in an increase in the HPC
counts, because components of the biomass of the nitrifying bacteria serve as a
food source for heterotrophs. In corroding pipes, sulfate-reducing bacteria are
present. These bacteria play a role in microbially induced corrosion, which
results in complaints about discoloured water (O’Connor et al. 1975; Lee et al.
1980; Tuovinen et al. 1980; Victoreen 1984; Lee et al. 1995). Where bacteria
multiply, protozoans may also be present (Michel et al. 1995). At elevated
temperatures, protozoans with pathogenic properties (Acanthamoeba,
Naegleria) may multiply (de Jonckheere 1979).
    The presence of invertebrates in water used for consumption also had
attracted attention before bacteriological techniques were used to assess water
quality (de Vries 1890). In 1928, Heymann in the Netherlands described the
sequence of natural biological processes in distribution systems — namely,
multiplication of bacteria, followed by protozoans and subsequently the
development of a population of small and larger animals, including Asellus
(Heymann 1928). Heymann concluded that iron bacteria were a main food
source for Asellus. In the second half of the century, these animals were studied
in a number of other countries (Smalls and Greaves 1968; Levy et al. 1986). In
the Netherlands, extensive studies have been conducted to obtain information
about numbers of invertebrates in unchlorinated water supplies. Asellids
comprised the main proportion (>75%) of invertebrate biomass in water flushed
from mains, with maximum numbers of Asellus ranging from less than 1/m3 to
about 1000/m3. Higher maximum numbers (between 103 and 104/m3) were
observed for cladocerans and copepods. For nematodes and oligochaete worms,
these levels were usually below 10 and 100 organisms/m3, respectively (van
Lieverloo et al. 1997).


11.3 ASSESSMENT OF MICROBIAL ACTIVITY
11.3.1 Monitoring tools needed
Biological processes in distribution systems may cause a variety of water quality
problems and therefore should be limited. Reliable analytical tools are needed to
monitor the extent of the problem, the effects of control measures and the
factors promoting microbial activity. Monitoring of HPC values using standard
plate count methods is needed because criteria for such HPC values are defined
in legislation. However, improved HPC methods and other techniques are
206                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

available to elucidate the nature and the extent of the microbial problems and
processes.

11.3.2 Heterotrophic plate counts
The HPC value usually represents only a small fraction of the microbial
population in water. Major factors affecting the yield of the method include the
composition of the medium, the mode of use (spread or pour plate), incubation
temperature and incubation time. The medium prescribed for routine monitoring
of HPC values contains high concentrations of substrates (beef extract, peptone),
and, after a short incubation period (24–48 h), only bacteria growing rapidly on
these compounds are enumerated. A large variety of HPC media have been
developed since the end of the 19th century, and, in combination with various
incubation temperatures and/or incubation periods, different fractions of the
community of heterotrophic bacteria can be enumerated. The highest HPC
values are obtained with the streak plate method on non-selective media with
low substrate concentrations in combination with a long incubation period (Foot
and Taylor 1949; Jones 1970; Fiksdal et al. 1982; Maki et al. 1986). Also,
Reasoner and Geldreich (1985) demonstrated the effect of medium composition
and incubation time on the HPC yield. The R2A medium, with a relatively low
substrate concentration, gave the highest yield after 14 days of incubation at
20 ºC. Figure 11.1 shows that diluted broth agar medium gave much higher
HPC values than plate count agar medium (van der Kooij 1992). However, even
despite these improvements, HPC values on solid media are usually a small
fraction (in many cases <1%) of the total bacterial population as enumerated
with microscopic techniques (Maki et al. 1986; McCoy and Olson 1986; Servais
et al. 1992). The difference between total direct counts and HPC values is
caused by the inability of a majority of bacteria to produce colonies on the
applied solid medium, the presence of chemolithotrophic bacteria and the
presence of dead cells.
   One specific culture medium will never detect all viable heterotrophic
bacteria. The best approach for monitoring the multiplication of heterotrophic
bacteria in the distribution system is the use of a standardized HPC method with
a high yield. Additionally, selective culture methods for the detection of
opportunistic pathogens and nuisance organisms can be applied when needed.

11.3.3 Total direct counts
Several techniques are available for enumerating the total number of bacteria in
water. The most commonly applied method includes membrane filtration to
concentrate bacteria, staining with a fluorescent dye (acridine orange) and
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                  207

microscopic observation (Hobbie et al. 1977). The total direct count (TDC)
value obtained in this way is an indicator for bacterial biomass, and observations
of specific morphological types of organisms give additional information.
Furthermore, the information is available within a short period. TDC values
between 104 and 105 cells/ml have been observed in the distribution systems of
Paris (Servais et al. 1992) and Metz (Matthieu et al. 1995). Prévost et al. (1997,
1998) reported values above 105 cells/ml for treated water in two Canadian
distribution systems and in water from services lines. Concentrations of about
106 cells/ml were observed in treated surface water entering a distribution
system (Brazos and O’Conner 1996). TDC methods give information about the
concentration of cells, but not about the concentration of active biomass,
because not all detected organisms are active and because cells have large
differences in size. Special methods are available for directly determining the
number of viable cells (Coallier et al. 1994; McFeters et al. 1999).

11.3.4 Adenosine triphosphate
For determining the concentration of active microorganisms, the adenosine
triphosphate (ATP) assay has been developed. ATP is an energy-rich compound
present in active biomass. The first applications of the ATP analysis for
determining microbial activity in water were described by Holm-Hansen and
Booth (1966). Values of 250–300 have been reported for the ratio between
concentrations of biomass estimated as particulate organic carbon and ATP
(Karl 1980). Attractive properties of this analytical method include the
following:

   • rapidity: the analysis can be conducted within a few minutes;
   • low detection level: a concentration of 1 ng ATP/litre can be detected
     without concentration techniques;
   • inclusion of all types of active (micro)organisms;
   • ease of interpretation, because ATP concentration is directly related to
     activity;
   • automation: enables the analysis of large series of samples; and
   • on-site analysis, using portable equipment.

Improvements of the chemicals and equipment will lead to further decreases in
detection limits and improve ease of operation.
   ATP analysis is used as a research tool for assessing the presence of
microorganisms in drinking-water. In a study conducted in 19 water supplies in
the Netherlands, it was found that ATP concentrations in treated water collected
208                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

from the distribution systems (mostly without chlorine residual) were usually
below 10 ng/litre (Figure 11.2). The HPC/ATP ratio in groundwater supplies
(105 – 3 × 105 cfu/ng) was lower than in surface water supplies (106 – 3 × 106
cfu/ng), probably because of the presence of nitrifying bacteria coming from
filter beds used in groundwater treatment (van der Kooij 1992). Deininger and
Lee (2001) observed a high correlation between ATP concentrations and HPC
values in 120 samples collected from various systems in the USA. Relatively
high ATP concentrations (up to 50 ng/litre) have been reported for a distribution
system receiving ozonated water (Bourbigot et al. 1982). A survey of all
supplies in the Netherlands showed that ATP concentrations in water leaving the
treatment plant were below 1 ng/litre in 15% of the samples, with 2.5 ng/litre
and 8 ng/litre as median value and 90th-percentile value, respectively (Figure
11.3). Hence, a database for this parameter in treated water is available for
reference.




Figure 11.2. ATP concentrations in drinking-water during distribution in 19 water
supplies in the Netherlands sampled during summer–autumn. Open bars (bottom)
indicate groundwater supplies, black bars indicate surface water supplies. Nos. 2, 3 and
12 have slow sand filtrate as final treatment (adapted from van der Kooij 1992).


11.3.5 Other methods
For determining microbial activity, a large number of enzymatic methods and
methods based on the incorporation of radioactive compounds in biomass are
available, but these techniques will not be reviewed here. A new and very
promising development is the use of molecular methods based on polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) methods
                     Managing regrowth in distribution systems                        209

(Manz et al. 1993; Schwartz et al. 1998). Such techniques are especially useful
in determining the concentrations of specific bacteria that are difficult to culture
— e.g., nitrifying bacteria and sulfate-reducing bacteria — but also other types
of microorganisms. Developments in this area are fast, and it is expected that
rapid molecular techniques will be available in the near future for the
quantitative detection of many types of organisms (see chapter 9 of this book).




Figure 11.3. Frequency distribution of ATP concentrations in treated water of 243
treatment facilities in the Netherlands. ATP concentrations were above 20 ng/litre in five
locations, with a maximum value of 46 ng/litre (unpublished data).


11.3.6 Suite of methods
Monitoring or elucidating microbial activity in distribution systems is best done
by using a suite of parameters, namely:

    •    HPC on a nutrient-poor solid medium, e.g., R2A agar, incubated at 20–
         25 ºC for 7–14 days;
    •    selective media for detection and isolation of undesirable bacteria, such
         as Aeromonas, Legionella, Mycobacterium, Pseudomonas, etc., when
         needed;
    •    ATP, for rapid determination of the total microbial activity; and
210                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   •    molecular methods (PCR, FISH) for the selective detection of specific
        microorganisms.

   ATP analysis and molecular methods enable a rapid assessment of the
microbial water quality, but general application requires further investigations to
obtain standardized methods and well defined criteria.


11.4 FACTORS PROMOTING MICROBIAL ACTIVITY
11.4.1 Energy sources in water
11.4.1.1 Power of multiplication
Microbial activity depends on the availability of sources of energy and carbon
for formation and maintenance of biomass. The major energy source in treated
water is organic carbon, but ammonia may also be present in certain water
types. Already in 1885, it was observed that bacteria multiplied in treated water
when samples were not processed immediately (Frankland and Frankland 1894).
In the early days of microbiology, these observations on the “power of
multiplication” of microorganisms caused much excitement, and investigations
were conducted for explanation. It was found that even water with a high purity
promoted growth of bacteria when stored in a bottle. This power of
multiplication was also demonstrated with pure cultures. Attempts were made to
quantify the growth potential of water for microorganisms, but in many cases
these tests were hampered by the use of flasks plugged with cotton wool,
allowing the diffusion of growth-promoting volatile compounds into the test
water. Beijerinck (1891) suggested that growth tests with pure cultures of
microorganisms should be conducted in boiled water, but results of such tests do
not seem available. Heymann (1928) published a method for determining the
concentration of assimilable organic compounds in water based on the reduction
of the potassium permanganate value after one or more passages of water
through a sand filter at a rate of 1 cm/h. With this method, he observed
potassium permanganate reductions in raw water above 50% and 20–40% in
treated (rapid sand filtration followed by slow sand filtration) water and in
groundwater, respectively. These values demonstrate that even after extended
treatment or after soil passage, a substantial part of the organic compounds in
water remains available to microbial activity, provided that enough contact time
is given.
    In the 1970s, the increased interest in microbial water quality and the
introduction of new treatment methods strengthened the focus on the assessment
of the microbial growth potential of treated water. A number of methods have
been developed in European countries and in the USA (Table 11.1).
                       Managing regrowth in distribution systems                    211

Table 11.1. Methods for determining the microbial growth potential or the concentration
of biodegradable organic compounds in treated water
    Method (units)1     Key parameter      Mode           References
    AOC (µg             Biomass (cfu)      Batch          van der Kooij et al. 1982c;
    carbon/litre)                                         van der Kooij 1992; Kaplan
                                                          et al. 1993; LeChevallier et
                                                          al. 1993b
    BDOC (mg            DOC                Batch          Joret and Levi 1986; Servais
    carbon/litre)                                         et al. 1987
    BDOC (mg            DOC                Flow-          Lucena et al. 1990; Ribas et
    carbon/litre)                          through        al. 1991; Kaplan and
                                                          Newbold 1995
    BFR (pg             Biomass (ATP)      Flow-          van der Kooij et al. 1995b
    ATP/cm2 per day)                       through
1
     BDOC, biodegradable dissolved organic carbon; AOC, assimilable organic carbon;
     BFR, biofilm formation rate (expressed as amount of ATP per cm2 of exposed surface
     and per day); DOC, dissolved organic carbon.

11.4.1.2 Assimilable organic carbon
Assessment of the assimilable organic carbon (AOC) concentration is based on
growth measurements with a mixture of two selected pure cultures in a sample
of pasteurized water contained in a thoroughly cleaned glass-stoppered
Erlenmeyer flask (van der Kooij et al. 1982c). The strains used in the AOC test
are Pseudomonas fluorescens strain P17, which is capable of utilizing a wide
range of low-molecular-weight compounds at very low concentrations (van der
Kooij et al. 1982a), and a Spirillum sp. strain NOX, which utilizes only
carboxylic acids (van der Kooij and Hijnen 1984). The AOC concentration is
calculated from the maximum colony counts of these strains, using their yield
values for acetate. Consequently, AOC concentrations are expressed as acetate-
carbon equivalents/litre. AOC concentrations in treated water in the Netherlands
usually are below 10 µg carbon/litre, but values up to about 60 µg carbon/litre
have been observed in surface water supplies with ozonation included in water
treatment (van der Kooij et al. 1989; van der Kooij 1992). In all types of treated
water, the fraction available to strain NOX was the largest proportion of the
AOC concentration, indicating that carboxylic acids were the predominating
growth substrates. The AOC concentration utilized by strain P17 was less than 1
µg carbon/litre in most types of treated water. With this technique, effects of
water treatment and distribution have been determined (van der Kooij 1984,
1987, 1992). The method is used in other countries, usually after modification
(Kaplan et al. 1993; LeChevallier et al. 1993b; Miettinen et al. 1999). Table
212                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

11.2 shows that AOC values reported for treated water in the USA and in
Finland ranged from about 20 to more than 400 µg carbon/litre, with median
values of about 100 µg carbon/litre (Kaplan et al. 1994; Miettinen et al. 1999;
Volk and LeChevallier 2000). These values are much higher than those
observed in the Netherlands.
Table 11.2. Ranges of concentrations of DOC, BDOC and AOC in treated water as
observed in a few surveys (mean values are given in parentheses)
                              DOC (mg        BDOC (mg          AOC (µg
    Country       Systems    carbon/litre)   carbon/litre)   carbon/litre)1
                                                                          Reference
    Netherlands     20       0.3–8.6 (3.3)       ND2         1.1–57 (8.1) van der Kooij
                                                                          1992
    USA             79       0.2–4.3 (2.0)    0.01–0.97      18–322 (110) Kaplan et al.
                                                (0.24)                    1994
    Finland         24       0.6–5.0 (2.7)       ND          45–315 (130) Miettinen et
                                                                          al. 1999
    USA           31 (95)3   0.6–4.5 (2.0)    0.03–1.03      14–491 (94) Volk and
                                                (0.32)                    LeChevallier
                                                                          2000
1
     Acetate-carbon equivalents/litre.
2
     ND, not determined.
3
     Number of plants for which AOC tests were conducted in parentheses.

11.4.1.3 Biodegradable dissolved organic carbon
The biodegradable dissolved organic carbon (BDOC) method, as developed by
Joret and Levi (1986), determines the decrease of the dissolved organic carbon
(DOC) concentration in water samples incubated for several days with sand
from a biological filter. The BDOC method developed by Servais et al. (1987)
determines the DOC decrease in water as caused by the indigenous microbial
community after an incubation period of 30 days. Table 11.2 shows that typical
BDOC values in treated water in the USA range from less than 0.1 mg/litre to
about 1 mg/litre, with median values of 0.24–0.32 mg/litre (Kaplan et al. 1994;
Volk and LeChevallier 2000). These values were clearly higher than the AOC
values reported for the same water types. The difference between BDOC and
AOC values is caused by using a relatively high concentration of biomass of an
adapted microbial community in the BDOC test, whereas low numbers of two
pure cultures are used in the AOC test. A rapid assessment of the BDOC value
can be obtained from changes in DOC concentrations following the passage of
water through a column containing a support with an adapted microbial
community (Lucena et al. 1990; Ribas et al. 1991).
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                 213

11.4.1.4 Biofilm formation rate
The biofilm formation rate (BFR) value is determined with the use of a biofilm
monitor, consisting of a vertical glass column containing glass cylinders (with
an external surface of about 17 cm2) on top of each other. This column is
supplied with the water to be investigated at a flow of 0.2 m/s (empty column).
Cylinders are sampled periodically from the column, and the biomass
concentrations of the glass surface are determined with ATP analysis.
Subsequently, BFR values are calculated from the biomass increase in time and
expressed as pg ATP/cm2 per day (van der Kooij et al. 1995b). BFR values of
treated water in the Netherlands typically range from less than 1 pg ATP/cm2
per day in slow sand filtrate to values between 30 and 50 pg ATP/cm2 per day in
drinking-water prepared from anaerobic groundwater. The system has been
calibrated with acetate added to treated water. A concentration of 10 µg acetate-
carbon/litre gave a BFR value of 360 pg ATP/cm2 per day, and a BFR value of
35 pg ATP/cm2 per day corresponds with 1 µg carbon/litre of easily available
carbon compounds (van der Kooij et al. 1995a).
   These observations demonstrate that very low concentrations of readily
biodegradable compounds may affect biofilm formation. From the observed
BFR values, it can be derived that the concentration of such compounds is less
than 1 µg carbon/litre in most supplies with AOC concentrations below 10 µg
carbon/litre. Combining the results of the AOC test and the BFR values gives a
two-dimensional approach for evaluating the biological (in)stability of treated
water.

11.4.2 Materials and sediments
11.4.2.1 Materials
Many reports are available about microbial growth promotion induced by
materials in contact with treated water. Such materials included coatings,
rubbers and pipe materials (Speh et al. 1976; Colbourne and Brown 1979;
Ellgas and Lee 1980; Schoenen and Schöler 1983; Frensch et al. 1987;
Bernhardt and Liesen 1988) and also wood used in service reservoirs (Seidler et
al. 1977). Certain chemicals used in water treatment — e.g., coagulant or
filtration aids — and lubricants can also enhance microbial growth (van der
Kooij and Hijnen 1985; White and LeChevallier 1993). A number of materials
in contact with treated water can promote the growth of opportunistic pathogens
— e.g., Legionella and Mycobacterium (Colbourne et al. 1984; Niedeveld et al.
1986; Rogers et al. 1994; Schulze-Röbbecke and Fischeder 1989). In the United
Kingdom, materials in contact with treated water are tested in the mean
dissolved oxygen difference (MDOD) test (Colbourne and Brown 1979).
214                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Materials with an MDOD level above 2.3 mg/litre are considered unsuitable for
use in contact with treated water (Colbourne 1985). In Germany, a test method
based on determining the amount of slime on the surface of a material is applied
(Schoenen and Schöler 1983; DVGW 1990). In the Netherlands, the biomass
production potential (BPP) test has been developed, which is based on the
biofilm formation potential test by including the amount of suspended biomass
in the measurements (van der Kooij and Veenendaal 2001). The BPP value (pg
ATP/cm2) is defined as the average value of the sum of the concentrations of
attached biomass and suspended biomass estimated after 8, 12 and 16 weeks of
exposure. Typical BPP values range from less than about 100 pg ATP/cm2 for
unplasticized polyvinyl chloride to values above 10 000 pg ATP/cm2 for certain
plastic materials and rubber components (van der Kooij et al. 1999).
   Reactive metal surfaces — i.e., corroding cast iron — also enhance microbial
growth (LeChevallier et al. 1993a; Camper et al. 1996; Kerr et al. 1999),
probably by adsorption of organic compounds on iron oxides (Camper et al.
1999).

11.4.2.2 Sediments and corrosion products
Sediments accumulating in distribution systems can serve as a food source for
bacteria (Baylis 1930; Allen and Geldreich 1978; Allen et al. 1980; Martin et al.
1982). Detritus originating from biofilm sloughing may contribute to sediment
accumulation, but particles present in treated water (e.g., algal cells) and
corrosion products have also been observed in sediments (Ridgway and Olson
1981; Brazos and O’Connor 1996). In cast iron pipes, it is difficult to
differentiate between sediments and corrosion products. Sediments and
corrosion products protect microorganisms from the disinfectant (LeChevallier
et al. 1990).

11.4.3 Temperature and hydraulic conditions
Water temperature, flow velocity (variations) and residence time have an impact
on microbial activity. Biological activity increases about 100% when
temperature increases by 10 ºC. A temperature of 15 ºC has been reported as
critical for coliform growth (LeChevallier et al. 1996). Flow velocity (changes)
affects supply of substrates and disinfectant, biofilm sloughing and sediment
accumulation. An increasing residence time in chlorinated supplies results in a
decreasing free chlorine concentration (Lu et al. 1995; Vasconcelos et al. 1997;
Prévost et al. 1998). Locations with long residence time — e.g., peripheral parts
of the distribution system and service reservoirs (Speh et al. 1976; LeChevallier
et al. 1987; Prévost et al. 1997) — are vulnerable for regrowth because of
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                   215

decreased disinfectant residual, the transportation of sediments and increase of
water temperature in summer.

11.4.4 Models
A number of models have been developed to describe the relationships between
water quality parameters, distribution system conditions and the extent of
regrowth. Lu et al. (1995) described a mathematical model for transport of
substrates and microorganisms in water pipes. The disinfectant consumption
rate at the pipe wall plays a significant role in this model, and the chemical
oxygen demand is used as the growth substrate parameter. Servais et al. (1995)
developed the Sancho model for describing BDOC and biomass fluctuations in
distribution systems. In this model, BDOC is divided into a fraction that is
rapidly utilized and a fraction of complex substrates that are available only after
enzymatic activity (hydrolysis). The model has been validated in practice in
distribution systems. A third model, developed by Dukan et al. (1996),
combines a hydraulic model (Piccolo) with a water quality model, including
BDOC, chlorine residual and bacteria. From this model, a BDOC value of 0.25
mg/litre and a temperature of 16 ºC were derived as threshold values above
which problems can be expected. These values are in agreement with
observations in practice. It is not clear to what extent these models are
predicting the quality changes in distribution systems, because many studies
have shown that microbial activity depends on many variables (LeChevallier et
al. 1996; van der Kooij 1999). The development and improvement of models
are continuing (Huck and Gagnon 2002), with the aim to obtain a tool
supporting optimal design and water quality management in distribution
systems.

11.4.5 Biological stability
Biologically stable water does not promote the growth of microorganisms
during its distribution due to a lack of growth substrates (Rittmann and
Snoeyink 1984). Defining biological stability in terms of water quality
parameters, however, is rather complicated, because microbial activities as
described above are affected by a number of different conditions and the
properties of the microorganisms. A low concentration of growth-promoting
compounds in treated water is an important factor. Many types of heterotrophic
bacteria are adapted to aquatic environments with very low concentrations of
easily biodegradable compounds, such as amino acids, carboxylic acids and
carbohydrates (van der Kooij and Hijnen 1981, 1984, 1985; van der Kooij et al.
216                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

1982a). Also, undesirable bacteria, such as P. aeruginosa, Aeromonas spp. and
coliforms, multiply rapidly at substrate concentrations of a few micrograms per
litre (van der Kooij et al. 1982b; van der Kooij and Hijnen 1988a, 1988b;
Camper et al. 1991). Consequently, the concentrations of such compounds must
be very low in treated water. Based on these findings and observations on the
effect of water distribution on AOC concentrations, an AOC concentration of 10
µg carbon/litre has been derived as a reference value for biological stability (van
der Kooij 1984, 1992; van der Kooij et al. 1989). AOC concentrations below
this concentration hardly decrease during distribution in unchlorinated supplies,
and HPC values (two days, 22 ºC) remain below 100 cfu/ml (Schellart 1986;
van der Kooij 1992). From studies in the USA, it was concluded that coliform
regrowth was significantly reduced in chlorinated supplies at AOC values below
50–100 µg carbon/litre (LeChevallier et al. 1991, 1996). Observations on
changes of BDOC concentrations in the distribution system of Paris led to the
conclusion that treated water with a BDOC value below 0.2 mg/litre has a high
degree of biological stability (Servais et al. 1992; Dukan et al. 1996).
    In groundwater supplies in the Netherlands, multiplication of Aeromonas was
observed at AOC concentrations below 10 µg carbon/litre and HPC values
(three days, 22 ºC) remaining below 100 cfu/ml. These observations
demonstrated the complexity of defining the biological stability of water. For
these water types, a clear relationship was observed between the BFR value and
the 90th-percentile values of Aeromonas concentrations (cfu/100 ml). The risk
of exceeding a 90th-percentile value of 200 cfu/ml was less than 20% at BFR
values below 10 pg ATP/cm2 per day (van der Kooij et al. 1999). Consequently,
biological stability assessment in the Netherlands is based on determining the
AOC concentration as a measure for the concentration of potentially available
compounds, and the BFR value is an indication of the rate at which these
compounds (and possibly also compounds not included in the AOC test) can
cause biofilm accumulation. Still, this combination of parameters does not
completely describe biological (in)stability in distribution systems because of
the effects of materials, corrosion processes and sediment accumulation.
    In some situations, at relatively high concentrations of humic compounds, the
availability of phosphorus was found to be growth limiting instead of the energy
source. A sensitive method has been developed to assess the concentration of
available phosphorus (Lehtola et al. 1999; Miettinen et al. 1999).
    Testing of materials for biological stability is also needed, and methods are
available for this purpose in several European countries (see above). At present,
in the framework of developing a European Acceptance Scheme for products in
contact with treated water, investigations are conducted to harmonize test
methods.
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                  217

11.4.6 Suite of tools
Microbial activity in distribution systems depends on complex processes.
Controlling microbial activity requires knowledge about these processes and
tools to elucidate water quality parameters and distribution system conditions.
These tools include:

   •    methods for assessment of the biological stability of treated water;
   •    methods for assessment of the biological stability of materials in contact
        with treated water; and
   •    models for describing the effects of water quality parameters and
        distribution system conditions on microbial activity.


11.5 CONTROLLING MICROBIAL ACTIVITY
11.5.1 General
Controlling (limiting) microbial activity in distribution systems is needed to
prevent water quality deterioration resulting in non-compliance with regulations,
consumer complaints, disease or engineering problems. Microbial activity in the
distribution system largely depends on the introduction of energy sources. As
has been described above, such compounds may originate from treated water
and from the materials in contact with treated water. Accumulated sediments
also promote growth. The following approaches can be used for controlling
(limiting) microbial activity:

   •    distribution of biologically stable drinking-water in a system with non-
        reactive, biologically stable materials;
   •    maintaining a disinfectant residual in the entire distribution system;
   •    distribution of treated water with a low disinfectant residual and a
        relatively high level of biological stability; and
   •    optimization of the distribution system to prevent stagnation and
        sediment accumulation.

11.5.2 Biological stability
11.5.2.1 Water treatment
Biologically stable water can be achieved by applying an appropriate water
treatment, which includes biological processes. In surface water treatment in the
Netherlands, one or several of the following biological processes are applied:
218                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

storage in open reservoirs, soil/dune passage, granular activated carbon
filtration, rapid sand filtration and sand filtration. These processes are used in
combination with physical and chemical treatment processes such as
coagulation/sedimentation and oxidation/disinfection (ozone, chlorine) to obtain
multiple barriers against microorganisms, pollutants and biodegradable
compounds (Kruithof 2001). Thus, achieving biological stability in surface
water treatment is only one objective, and the design and dimensions of water
treatment are to a large extent determined by the microbial safety and the
removal of undesirable chemical compounds.
    Biological filtration processes are effective in AOC and BDOC removal.
Significant reductions up to 80% can be obtained within about 10 min contact
time (van der Kooij 1984, 1987; Zhang and Huck 1996; Carlson and Amy
1998). When ozone is applied in water treatment, usually two filtration stages
are needed to reduce the AOC concentration to a level of about 10 µg
carbon/litre (van der Kooij 1984). This second filtration stage is also important
for the removal of biomass and particles (e.g., carbon fines; Morin et al. 1996)
as produced in the first filtration stage. The presence of chlorine in the influent
of filter beds should be prevented, because the disinfectant hampers biological
activity. Coagulation/sedimentation processes can also result in a considerable
AOC reduction (van der Kooij 1984), but Volk et al. (2000) did not observe an
AOC reduction despite 30–38% BDOC removal.
    Aerobic groundwater abstracted from sandy soils has a high degree of
biological stability as the result of extended biological processes in the aquifer.
Anaerobic groundwater usually contains higher concentrations of organic
compounds as well as ammonia and methane. The AOC concentration of
anaerobic groundwater treated with aeration and one or two filtration steps is
usually below 10 µg carbon/litre, and the low AOC/DOC ratio (about 1 µg
AOC/mg DOC) suggests that organic carbon has a high degree of biostability
(van der Kooij 1992). In such supplies, HPC values remain below 100 cfu/ml,
but Aeromonas regrowth has been observed (Havelaar et al. 1990), and
relatively high BFR values have been observed in treated water (van der Kooij
1999). Biostability was improved by cleaning (or replacing) filter material
and/or intensifying aeration. These measures resulted in better removals of
methane and ammonia, but also gave lower concentrations of iron and
manganese in the filtrate (Reijnen et al. 1993).
    A new development in water treatment is the application of membrane
processes. In 2000, a surface water treatment plant including ultrafiltration and
reverse osmosis was installed in the Netherlands. Treated water had a high
degree of biostability (Kruithof 2001). However, the effects of membrane
filtration processes are not yet clear. Microbial activity decreased in an
experimental pipe loop supplied with nanofiltered water (Sibille et al. 1997), but
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                   219

other reports suggest that nanofiltration removes BDOC but not AOC (Escobar
and Randall 1999).

11.5.2.2 Materials
Selection of appropriate materials is important to maintain biostability in
drinking-water distribution systems. This requires a systematic approach based
on reliable test methods and criteria. Much information is available about effects
of materials on microbial growth (Schoenen and Schöler 1983; Colbourne 1985;
van der Kooij and Veenendaal 2001).

11.5.3 Disinfection
Maintenance of high pressures in the mains and prevention of cross-connections
are crucial measures for ingress prevention. Maintaining a disinfectant residual,
aimed at further ensuring the microbiological quality of water in the distribution
system by protecting against microbial contamination and preventing regrowth,
is common practice in most water supplies in North America and Europe
(Trussell 1999). The discovery of trihalomethane (THM) formation by
chlorination (Rook 1974) has caused much debate, and in a number of European
countries the use of chlorine in water treatment and distribution is restricted as
much as possible (van der Kooij et al. 1999; Kruithof 2001). In situations where
treated water is not stable, adding a disinfectant to treated water is the only
option to limit regrowth, but this approach has a number of limitations and
drawbacks, which are listed below.

11.5.3.1 Chlorine
Chlorine is an effective disinfectant against viruses and bacteria, but to a lesser
extent against protozoa. Payment (1999) demonstrated that disinfectant
concentrations as used in distribution systems had only a limited effect on
pathogens. Free chlorine concentrations up to 0.3 mg/litre must be maintained to
prevent regrowth and formation of biofilms (Geldreich et al. 1972; Speh et al.
1976). This approach has the following limitations:

   •    Chlorine is a highly reactive compound, which forms undesirable side
        products (THMs) for which maximum values are defined in legislation
        — e.g., 200 µg/litre for chloroform, 100 µg/litre for bromoform and
        dibromochloromethane, and 60 µg/litre for bromodichloromethane,
        recommended by WHO (1996); 100 µg/litre in Europe (European Union
        1998); and 25 µg/litre in the Netherlands (VROM 2001).
220                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

   •    Low concentrations of chlorine affect the taste and odour of drinking-
        water, causing consumers to complain or to use alternative sources
        (Burttschell et al. 1959; Bryan et al. 1973).
   •    Chlorination increases the AOC concentration in water, probably by
        oxidation of large organic molecules (van der Kooij 1984, 1987).
   •    The chlorine residual rapidly declines in the distribution system.
        Usually after about a 10-h residence time, the concentration has dropped
        below 0.1 mg/litre. Pipe material, in particular cast iron, plays an
        important role in chlorine reduction (Lu et al. 1995; Vasconcelos et al.
        1997; Prévost et al. 1998). Chlorine also enhances the corrosion
        process.
   •    Low concentrations of chlorine are not effective in biofilms and
        sediments (LeChevallier et al. 1988a, 1988b, 1990; Herson et al. 1991),
        explaining why coliforms may be observed in the presence of a free
        chlorine residual (Wierenga 1985; LeChevallier et al. 1996).
   •    Certain microorganisms can survive or multiply in the presence of low
        concentrations of chlorine. As a consequence, chlorination is causing a
        shift in the microbial community (LeChevallier et al. 1980; Ridgway
        and Olson 1982). Norton and LeChevallier (2000) observed that
        chlorination caused a shift to Gram-positive bacteria. Gräf and Bauer
        (1973) isolated a chlorine-resistant Corynebacterium from tap water.
        Also, mycobacteria are relatively resistant to disinfectants (Carson et al.
        1978; Taylor et al. 2000). Nagy and Olson (1982) found more
        filamentous fungi in chlorinated than in unchlorinated supplies. The
        hygienic consequences of these shifts are not clear.

These limitations show that chlorine is not the ideal method to limit regrowth in
distribution systems. However, the required technology is simple and cheap, and
maintaining a chlorine residual throughout the distribution system is an essential
safety measure when distribution system integrity cannot be assured.

11.5.3.2 Monochloramine
Monochloramine is used on a large scale for distribution system residual
maintenance and has replaced free chlorine residuals in many supplies in the
USA and also in a few supplies in Europe. Monochloramine is less reactive than
chlorine, and its application has a number of advantages, including less THM
production, limited effect on taste and odour, greater stability in the distribution
system and relative effectiveness against biofilms (LeChevallier et al. 1988b,
1990). Distribution systems receiving water with monochloramine had lower
                   Managing regrowth in distribution systems                 221

coliform-positive samples than distribution systems with chlorinated water
(Neden et al. 1992). LeChevallier et al. (1996) demonstrated that coliform
counts in distribution systems were 35 times higher in chlorinated than in
chloraminated water. A remarkable achievement of using monochloramine is
the reduction in cases of legionellosis compared with chlorinated supplies,
which has been explained by the effect of monochloramine on biofilms (Kool et
al. 1999). However, using monochloramine has a number of drawbacks,
including formation of nitrite (Wolfe et al. 1990; Skadsen 1993) and reaction
with elastomers. Furthermore, monochloramine is toxic to humans, which limits
its maximum concentration in water, and is also toxic to fish (Bull and Kopfler
1991). Finally, monochloramine is less effective than chlorine against
suspended microorganisms, and application may also result in a shift in the
microbial community (see above).
    The change from chlorine to chloramine in many supplies indicates that
monochloramine has certain advantages over chlorine. However, when
compared with systems maintaining quality without disinfectant, the use of
monochloramine is not attractive.

11.5.4 Distribution system configuration and maintenance
Reduction of microbial activity can also be achieved by measures in the
distribution system. Such measures include preventive actions and corrective
activities. Improved system design for maintaining water quality during
distribution aims at reducing residence time and stagnation and the use of non-
corrosive materials. Conditioning of the water to limit corrosion also appears to
be effective in regrowth prevention (LeChevallier et al. 1993a). Corrective
measures such as cleaning by flushing or pigging have only a limited effect,
because these techniques are difficult to apply in transmission mains and trunk
lines (LeChevallier et al. 1987).

11.5.5 Multiple barriers against microbial activity in
       distribution systems
Microbial activity in the distribution system is affected by many factors.
Therefore, controlling microbial activity can be achieved only with a
combination of measures (multiple barriers). Removal of biodegradable
compounds from the water is of major importance, but a systematic approach in
eliminating or preventing growth-promoting conditions in the distribution
system is also essential. When biostability is not achieved, maintaining a
disinfectant residual is necessary to prevent water quality deterioration. The
222                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

level of disinfectant needed to control microbial activity may be related to the
degree of instability, but local conditions (water composition, size of
distribution system, water temperature) will also have a large impact.
Consequently, a tailor-made solution requires a systematic analysis of the
potential hazards to define appropriate control measures and critical control
points. This approach should be part of a water safety plan that covers all
aspects of drinking-water safety.


11.6 REFERENCES
Abu Kwaik, Y., Gao, L., Stone, B.J., Venkataraman, C. and Harb, O.S. (1998) Invasion
     of protozoa by Legionella pneumophila and its role in bacterial ecology and
     pathogenesis. Minireview. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64(9), 3127–3133.
Allen, M.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1978) Distribution line sediments and bacterial
     regrowth. In Proceedings of the American Water Works Association Water Quality
     Technology Conference, pp. 1–6, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Allen, M.J., Taylor, R.H. and Geldreich, E.E. (1980) The occurrence of microorganisms
     in water main encrustations. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 72, 614–625.
Baylis, J.R. (1930) Bacterial aftergrowths in water distribution systems. Water Works
     Sewerage 77(10), 355–338.
Beijerinck, M.W. (1891) Qualitative und quantitative microbiologische Analyse.
     Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Parasitenkd. X, 723–727.
Berger, K. (1970) Über die Bakterienvermehrung im Leitungsnetz. Gas-Wasser-
     Abwasser 50(12), 363–364.
Bernhardt, H. and Liesen, H.-U. (1988) Trinkwasserverkeimungen in Verteilingsnetzen
     durch Korrosionsschutz auf Bitumenbasis. VGF-Wasser/Abwasser 129, 28–32.
Bourbigot, M.M., Dodin, A. and Lhéritier, R. (1982) Limiting bacterial aftergrowth in
     distribution systems by removing biodegradable organics. In Proceedings of the
     American Water Works Association Water Quality Technology Conference, pp.
     871–886, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Brazos, B.J. and O’Connor, J.T. (1996) Seasonal effects on the generation of particle-
     associated bacteria during distribution. J. Environ. Eng. 122(12), 1050–1057.
Bryan, P.E., Kuzminski, L.N., Sawyer, F.M. and Feng, T.H. (1973) Taste thresholds of
     halogens in water. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 65, 363–368.
Bull, R.J. and Kopfler, F.C. (1991) Health Effects of Disinfectants and Disinfection By-
     products. American Water Works Association Research Foundation, Denver, CO.
Burke, V., Robinson, J., Gracey, M., Peterson, D. and Partridge, K. (1984) Isolation of
     Aeromonas hydrophila from a metropolitan water supply: seasonal correlation with
     clinical isolates. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 48, 361–366.
Burman, N.P. (1965) Taste and odour due to stagnation and local warming in long
     lengths of piping. Proc. Soc. Water Treat. Exam. 14, 125–131.
Burttschell, R.H., Rosen, A.A., Middleton, F.M. and Ettinger, M.B. (1959) Chlorine
     derivatives of phenol causing taste and odor. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 51, 205–
     214.
Camper, A.K., McFeters, G.A., Characklis, W.G. and Jones, W.L. (1991) Growth
     kinetics of coliform bacteria under conditions relevant to drinking water distribution
     systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57, 2233–2239.
                     Managing regrowth in distribution systems                        223

Camper, A.K., Jones, W.L. and Hayes, J.T. (1996) Effect of growth conditions and
     substratum composition on the persistence of coliforms in mixed-population
     biofilms. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62(11), 4014–4018.
Camper, A., Burr, M., Ellis, B., Butterfield, P. and Abernathy, C. (1999) Development
     and structure of drinking water biofilms and techniques for their study. J. Appl.
     Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 85, 1S–12S.
Carlson, K.H. and Amy, G.L. (1998) BOM removal during biofiltration. J. Am. Water
     Works Assoc. 90(12), 42–52.
Carson, L.A., Peterson, N.J., Favero, M.S. and Aguero, S.M. (1978) Growth
     characteristics of atypical mycobacteria in water and their comparative resistance to
     disinfectants. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 36, 839–846.
Clark, F.M., Scott, R.M. and Bone, E. (1967) Heterotrophic iron precipitating bacteria. J.
     Am. Water Works Assoc. 59, 1036–1042.
Coallier, J., Prévost, M., Rompré, A. and Duchesne, D. (1994) The optimization and
     application of two direct viable count methods for bacteria in distributed drinking
     water. Can. J. Microbiol. 40, 830–836.
Colbourne, J.S. (1985) Materials usage and their effects on the microbiological quality of
     water supplies. J. Appl. Bacteriol. Symp. Suppl. 71, 47S–59S.
Colbourne, J.S. and Brown, D.A. (1979) Dissolved oxygen utilization as an indicator of
     total microbial activity on non-metallic materials in contact with potable water. J.
     Appl. Bacteriol. 47(2), 223–231.
Colbourne, J.S., Pratt, D.J., Smith, M.G., Fisher-Hoch, S.P. and Harper, D. (1984) Water
     fittings as sources of Legionella pneumophila in a hospital plumbing system. Lancet
     i, 210–213.
Cordes, L.G., Wiesenthal, A.M., Gorman, G.W., Phair, J.P., Sommers, H.M., Brown, A.,
     Yu, V.L., Magnussen, M.H., Meyer, R.D., Wolf, J.S., Shands, K.N. and Fraser, D.
     (1981) Isolation of Legionella pneumophila from hospital shower heads. Ann.
     Intern. Med. 94(2), 195–197.
Craun, G.F., Berger, P.S. and Calderon, R.L. (1997) Coliform bacteria and waterborne
     disease outbreaks. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 89(3), 96–104.
Deininger, R.A. and Lee, J. (2001) Rapid determination of bacteria in drinking water
     using an ATP assay. Field Anal. Chem. Technol. 5(4), 185–189.
De Jonckheere, J.F. (1979) Occurrence of Naegleria and Acanthamoeba in aquaria. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 38(4), 590–593.
de Vries, H. (1890) Die Pflanzen und Thiere in den dunklen Räumen der Rotterdamer
     Wasserleitung. Gustav Fischer, Jena.
Dietlicher, K. (1970) Wiederkeimung ozonisierter Schnellfiltrate im Rohrnetz.
     Schriftenr. Ver. Wasser-, Boden-, Lufthyg., Berlin-Dahlem 31, 171–186.
Dott, W. and Waschko-Dransmann, D. (1981) Vorkommen und Bedeutung von
     Actinomycetales im Trinkwasser. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 173, 217–232.
Dukan, S., Levy, Y., Piriou, P., Guyon, F. and Villon, P. (1996) Dynamic modeling of
     bacterial growth in drinking water networks. Water Res. 30, 1991–2002.
DVGW (1990) Vermehrung von Mikroorganismen auf Materialien für den
     Trinkwasserbereich; Prüfung und Bewertung. Technische Regeln. Arbeitsblatt
     W270, Deutscher Verein des Gas- und Wasserfaches e.V., Eschborn.
Eijkmann, C. (1904) Die Gärungsprobe bei 46ºC als Hilfsmittel bei der
     Trinkwasseruntersuchung. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. I Abt. Orig. 37(5), 742–752.
224                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Ellgas, W.M. and Lee, R. (1980) Reservoir coatings can support bacterial growth. J. Am.
     Water Works Assoc. 72(12), 693–695.
Engel, H.W.B., Berwald, L.G. and Havelaar, A.H. (1980) The occurrence of
     Mycobacterium kansasii in tap water. Tubercle 61, 21–26.
Escobar, I.C. and Randall, A.A. (1999) Influence of nanofiltration on distribution system
     biostability. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 91(6), 76–89.
European Union (1998) Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality
     of water intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L330, 32–53.
Falkinham, J.O., III, Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2001) Factors influencing
     numbers of Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare and other
     mycobacteria in drinking water distribution systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     67(3), 1225–1231.
Fiksdal, U.V., Vik, E.A., Mills, A. and Staley, J.T. (1982) Nonstandard methods for
     enumerating bacteria in drinking water. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 74, 313–318.
Fischeder, R., Schulze-Röbbecke, R. and Weber, A. (1991) Occurrence of mycobacteria
     in drinking water samples. Zentralbl. Hyg. 192, 154–158.
Foot, C.H. and Taylor, C.B. (1949) The influence of the composition of the medium on
     the growth of bacteria from water. Proc. Soc. Appl. Bacteriol. [volume not given],
     11–13.
Frankland, P. and Frankland, P. (1894) Micro-organisms in Water; Their Significance,
     Identification and Removal. Longmans, Green and Co., London.
Frensch, K., Hahn, J.-U., Levsen, K., Niessen, J., Schöler, H.F. and Schoenen, D. (1987)
     Koloniezahlerhöhungen in einem Trinkwasserbehälter verursacht durch Lösemittel
     des Anstrichmaterials. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 184, 556–559.
Geldreich, E.E., Nash, H.D., Reasoner, D.J. and Taylor, R.H. (1972) The necessity of
     controlling bacterial populations in potable waters: community water supply. J. Am.
     Water Works Assoc. 64, 596–602.
Gräf, W. and Bauer, L. (1973) Roter Baktrienaufwuchs (Corynebacerium rubrum n.
     spec.) in Leitungswassersystemen. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 157, 291–303.
Haas, C.N., Meyer, M.A. and Paller, M.S. (1983) The ecology of acid-fast organisms in
     water supply, treatment and distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 75,
     139–144.
Haenle, O. (1903) 1. Die Bacterien-Flora der Metzer Wasserleitung. Heitz und Mündel,
     Strassburg.
Hardalo, C. and Edberg, S.C. (1997) Pseudomonas aeruginosa: assessment of risk from
     drinking water. Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 23, 47–75.
Havelaar, A.H., Versteegh, J.F. and During, M. (1990) The presence of Aeromonas in
     drinking water supplies in The Netherlands. Zentralbl. Hyg. Umweltmed. 190, 236–
     256.
Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., van Silfhout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van der
     Kooij, D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with diarrhoea and
     from drinking water. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 72, 435–444.
Heymann, J.A. (1928) De organische stof in het waterleidingbedrijf. Water Gas 12, 61–
     65, 69–72.
Herman, L.G. (1978) The slow-growing pigmented water bacteria: problems and sources.
     Appl. Microbiol. 23, 155–171.
Herson, D.S., Marshall, D.R., Baker, K.H. and Victoreen, H.T. (1991) Association of
     microorganisms with surfaces in distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     83, 103–106.
                    Managing regrowth in distribution systems                        225

Hoadley, A.W. (1977) Potential health hazards associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa
     in water. In Bacterial Indicators/Health Hazards Associated with Water (ed. A.W.
     Hoadley and B.J. Dutka), pp. 80–114, American Society of Testing and Materials,
     Philadelphia, PA.
Hobbie, J.E., Daley, R.J. and Jasper, S. (1977) Use of nucleopore filter for counting
     bacteria by fluorescence microscopy. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 33(5), 1225–1228.
Holm-Hansen, O. and Booth, C.R. (1966) The measurement of adenosine triphosphate in
     the ocean and its ecological significance. Limnol. Oceanogr. 11, 510–519.
Howard, N.J. (1940) Bacterial depreciation of water quality in distribution systems. J.
     Am. Water Works Assoc. 32, 1501–1506.
Huck, P.M. and Gagnon, G.A. (2002) Understanding the distribution system as a
     bioreactor: a framework for managing HPC levels. In Proceedings of the NSF
     International/WHO Symposium on HPC Bacteria in Drinking Water — Public
     Health Implications? (ed. J. Bartram, J. Cotruvo and C. Fricker), pp. 501–510, NSF
     International, Ann Arbor, MI.
Jones, J.G. (1970) Studies on freshwater bacteria: Effect of medium composition and
     method on estimates of bacterial population. J. Appl. Bacteriol. 33, 679–686.
Joret, J.C. and Levi, Y. (1986) Méthode rapide d’évaluation du carbone éliminable des
     eaux par voie biologique. Trib. Cebedeau 510(39), 3–9.
Kaplan, L.A. and Newbold, J.D. (1995) Measurement of streamwater
     biodegradable dissolved organic carbon with a plug-flow bioreactor. Water
     Res. 29(12), 2696–2706.
Kaplan, L.A., Bott, T.L. and Reasoner, D.J. (1993) Evaluation and simplification of the
     assimilable organic carbon nutrient bioassay for bacterial growth in drinking water.
     Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 59(5), 1532–1539.
Kaplan, L.A., Reasoner, D.J. and Rice, E.W. (1994) A survey of BOM in US drinking
     waters. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 86, 121–132.
Karl, D.M. (1980) Cellular nucleotide measurements and applications in microbial
     ecology. Microbiol. Rev. 44(4), 739–796.
Kaustova, J., Olsovsky, Z., Kubin, M., Zatloukal, O., Pelikan, M. and Hradil, V. (1981)
     Endemic occurrence of Mycobacterium kansasii in water-supply systems. J. Hyg.
     Epidemiol. Microbiol. Immunol. 25, 24–30.
Kayser, H. (1900) Die Flora der Strassburger Wasserleitung. Dissertation,
     Kaiserslautern, Kayser.
Kerr, C.J., Osborn, K.S., Robson, G.D. and Handley, P.S. (1999) The relationship
     between pipe material and biofilm formation in a laboratory model system. J. Appl.
     Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 85, 29S–38S.
Koch, R. (1893) Wasserfiltration und Cholera. Gesammelte Werke, 2(1), Georg Thieme,
     Leipzig.
Kool, J.L., Carpenter, J.C. and Fields, B.S. (1999) Effect of monochloramine disinfection
     of municipal drinking water on risk of nosocomial Legionnaires’ disease. Lancet
     353(9149), 272–277.
Kruithof, J.C. (2001) Disinfection by-product formation: Dutch approach to control
     strategies. In Microbial Pathogens and Disinfection By-products in Drinking Water.
     Health Effects and Management of Risks (ed. G.F. Craun, F.S. Hauchman and D.E.
     Robinson), pp. 455–464, ILSI Press, Washington, DC.
226                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Lantos, J., Kiss, M., Lànyi, B. and Völgesi, J. (1969) Serological and phage typing of
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa invading a municipal water supply. Acta Microbiol. Acad.
     Sci. Hung. 16, 333–336.
LeChevallier, M.W. (1990) Coliform regrowth in drinking water: a review. J. Am. Water
     Works Assoc. 82, 74–86.
LeChevallier, M.W., Seidler, R.J. and Evans, T.M. (1980) Enumeration and
     characterization of standard plate count bacteria in chlorinated and raw water
     supplies. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 40, 922–930.
LeChevallier, M.W., Evans, T.M., Seidler, R.J., Daily, O.P., Merrell, B.R., Rollins, D.M.
     and Joseph, S.W. (1982) Aeromonas sobria in chlorinated drinking water supplies.
     Microb. Ecol. 8, 325–333.
LeChevallier, M.W., Babcock, T.M. and Lee, R.G. (1987) Examination and
     characterization of distribution system biofilms. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 53,
     2714–2724.
LeChevallier, M.W., Cawthon, C.D. and Lee, R.G. (1988a) Factors promoting survival of
     bacteria in chlorinated water supplies. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54, 649–654.
LeChevallier, M.W., Cawthon, C.D. and Lee, R.G. (1988b) Inactivation of biofilm
     bacteria. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54, 2492–2499.
LeChevallier, M.W., Lowry, C.D. and Lee, R.G. (1990) Disinfection biofilms in a model
     distribution system. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 82(7), 87–99.
LeChevallier, M.W., Schulz, W. and Lee, R.G. (1991) Bacterial nutrients in drinking
     water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57, 857–862.
LeChevallier, M.W., Lowry, C.D., Lee, R.G. and Gibbon, D.L. (1993a) Examining the
     relationship between iron corrosion and the disinfection of biofilm bacteria. J. Am.
     Water Works Assoc. 85(7), 111–123.
LeChevallier, M.W., Shaw, N.E., Kaplan, L.E. and Bott, T. (1993b) Development of a
     rapid assimilable organic carbon method for water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 59,
     1526–1531.
LeChevallier, M.W., Welch, N.J. and Smith, D.B. (1996) Full-scale studies of factors
     related to coliform regrowth in drinking water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62(7),
     2201–2211.
Leclerc, H. and Buttiaux, R. (1962) Fréquence des Aeromonas dans les eaux
     d’alimentation. Ann. Inst. Pasteur 103, 97–100.
Lee, S.H., O’Connor, J.T. and Banerji, S.K. (1980) Biologically mediated corrosion and
     its effects on water quality in distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     72(11), 636–645.
Lee, W., Lewandowski, Z., Nielsen, P.H. and Hamilton, W.A. (1995) Role of sulfate-
     reducing bacteria in corrosion of mild steel: a review. Biofouling 8, 165–194.
Leeflang, K.W.H. (1968) Biologic degradation of rubber gaskets used for sealing pipe
     joints. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 60, 1070–1076.
Lehtola, M., Miettinen, I.T., Vartiainen, T. and Martiakainen, P.J. (1999) A new sensitive
     bioassay for determination of microbially available phosphorus in water. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 65(5), 2032–2034.
Levy, R.V., Hart, F.L. and Cheetham, D.D. (1986) Occurrence and public health
     significance of invertebrates in drinking water systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     78(9), 105–110.
Lu, C., Biswas, P. and Clark, R.M. (1995) Simultaneous transport of substrates,
     disinfectants and microorganisms in water pipes. Water Res. 29(3), 881–894.
                     Managing regrowth in distribution systems                        227

Lucena, F., Frais, J. and Ribas, F. (1990) A new dynamic approach to the determination
    of biodegradable dissolved organic carbon in water. Environ. Technol. 12, 343–347.
Maki, J.S., LaCroix, S.J., Hopkins, B.S. and Staley, J.T. (1986) Recovery and diversity of
    heterotrophic bacteria from chlorinated drinking waters. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
    51, 1047–1055.
Manz, W., Swezyk, U., Ericsson, P., Amann, R., Schleifer, K.H. and Stenström, T.A.
    (1993) In situ identification of bacteria in drinking water and adjoining biofilms by
    hybridization with 16S and 23S rRNA-directed fluorescent oligonucleotide probe.
    Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 5, 2293–2298.
Martin, R.S., Gates, W.H., Tobin, R.S., Grantham, D., Sumarah, R., Wolfe, P. and
    Forestall, P. (1982) Factors affecting coliform bacteria growth in distribution
    systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 74, 34–36.
Matthieu, L., Block, J.C., Prévost, M., Maul, A. and De Bischop, R. (1995) Biological
    stability of drinking water in the city of Metz distribution system. J. Water SRT
    Aqua 44(5), 230–239.
Maul, A., El-Shaarawi, A.H. and Block, J.C. (1985) Heterotrophic bacteria in water
    distribution systems. I. Spatial and temporal variation. Sci. Total Environ. 44, 201–
    214.
McCoy, W.F. and Olson, B.H. (1986) Relationship among turbidity, particle counts and
    bacteriological quality within water distribution lines. Water Res. 20, 1023–1029.
McFeters, G.A., Pyle, B.H., Lisle, J.T. and Broadway, S.C. (1999) Rapid direct methods
    for enumeration of specific active bacteria in water and in biofilms. J. Appl.
    Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 85, 193S–200S.
McMillan, L. and Stout, R. (1977) Occurrence of Sphaerotilus, Caulobacter, and
    Gallionella in raw and treated water. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 69, 171–173.
McSwiggan, D.A. and Collins, C.H. (1974) The isolation of M. kansasii and M. xenopi
    from water systems. Tubercle 55, 291–297.
Michel, R., Hoffmann, R., Giese, A. and Muller, K.D. (1995) Untersuchung von drie
    Grundwasserwerken auf Vorkommen von Acanthamoeben, Naeglerien und anderen
    freilebenden Amöben. Acta Hydrochim. Hydrobiol. 23(5), 202–211.
Miettinen, I., Vartianen, T. and Martikainen, P.J. (1999) Determination of assimilable
    organic carbon in humus rich drinking waters. Water Res. 33(10), 2277–2282.
Morin, P., Camper, A., Jones, W., Gatel, D. and Goldman, J.C. (1996) Colonisation and
    disinfection of biofilms hosting coliform-colonized carbon fines. Appl. Environ.
    Microbiol. 6(12), 4428–4432.
Nagy, L.A. and Olson, B.H. (1982) The occurrence of filamentous fungi in drinking
    water distribution systems. Can. J. Microbiol. 28, 667–671.
Nagy, L.A. and Olson, B.H. (1985) Occurrence and significance of bacteria, fungi and
    yeasts associated with distribution pipe surfaces. In Proceedings of the American
    Water Works Association Water Quality Technology Conference, American Water
    Works Association, Denver, CO.
Nagy, L.A. and Olson, B.H. (1986) A comparison of media for the enumeration of
    filamentous fungi from aqueduct biofilm. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 182, 478–484.
Neden, D.G., Jones, R.J., Smith, J.R., Kirmeyer, G.J. and Foust, G.W. (1992) Comparing
    chlorination and chloramination for controlling bacterial regrowth. J. Am. Water
    Works Assoc. 84(7), 80–88.
228                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Niedeveld, C.J., Pet, F.M. and Meenhorst, P.L. (1986) Effect of rubbers and their
     constituents on proliferation of Legionella pneumophila in naturally contaminated
     hot water. Lancet 2(8500), 180–184.
Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000) A pilot study of bacteriological population
     changes through potable water treatment and distribution. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
     66(1), 268–276.
O’Connor, J.T., Hash, L. and Edwards, A.B. (1975) Deterioration of water quality in
     distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 67, 113–116.
Olson, B.H. and Nagy, L.A. (1984) Microbiology of potable water. Appl. Microbiol. 30,
     73–131.
Payment, P. (1999) Poor efficacy of residual chlorine disinfectant in drinking water to
     inactivate waterborne pathogens in distribution systems. Can. J. Microbiol. 45, 709–
     715.
Prévost, M., Rompré, A., Baribeau, H., Coallier, J. and Lafrance, P. (1997) Service lines:
     their effect on microbiological quality. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 89(7), 78–91.
Prévost, M., Rompré, A., Coallier, J., Servais, P., Laurent, P., Clement, B. and Servais, P.
     (1998) Suspended bacterial biomass and activity in full-scale drinking water
     distribution systems: impact of water treatment. Water Res. 32(5), 1393–1406.
Reasoner, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1985) A new medium for the enumeration and
     subculture of bacteria from potable water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49, 1–7.
Reasoner, D.J., Blannon, J.C., Geldreich, E.E. and Barnick, J. (1989) Nonphotosynthetic
     pigmented bacteria in a potable water treatment and distribution system. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 55, 912–921.
Reijnen, G.K., de Koning, R.C., Hamers, R.E. and Bos, R.H. (1993) Effect of intensive
     aeration on the removal of iron, manganese and ammonium. In Proceedings of the
     European Water Filtration Congress (ed. M. Blommaert and R. Vanbrabant), 15–17
     March, Oostende, pp. 2.13–2.23, Royal Flemish Society of Engineers, Antwerpen.
Ribas, F., Frias, J. and Lucena, F. (1991) A new dynamic method for the rapid
     determination of the biodegradable dissolved organic carbon in drinking water. J.
     Appl. Bacteriol. 71, 371–378.
Ridgway, H.F. and Olson, B.H. (1981) Scanning electron microscope evidence for
     bacterial colonization of a drinking-water distribution system. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 41, 274–287.
Ridgway, H.F. and Olson, B.H. (1982) Chlorine resistance patterns of bacteria from two
     drinking water distribution systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 44, 972–987.
Ridgway, H.F., Means, E.G. and Olson, B.H. (1981) Iron bacteria in drinking-water
     distribution systems: elemental analysis of Gallionella stalks, using x-ray energy-
     dispersive microanalysis. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 41, 288–297.
Rittmann, B.E. and Snoeyink, V.L. (1984) Achieving biologically stable drinking water.
     J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 76(10), 106–114.
Rizet, M., Fiessinger, F. and Houel, N. (1982) Bacterial regrowth in a distribution system
     and its relationship with the quality of the feed water: case studies. In Proceedings
     of the American Water Works Association Annual Conference, pp. 1199–1214,
     American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Rogers, J., Dowsett, A.B., Dennis, P.J., Lee, J.V. and Keevil, C.W. (1994) Influence of
     plumbing materials on biofilm formation and growth of Legionella pneumophila in
     potable water systems. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60(6), 1842–1851.
Rook, J. (1974) The formation of haloforms during chlorination of natural waters. Water
     Treat. Exam. 23, 234–243.
                     Managing regrowth in distribution systems                        229

Rowbotham, T.J. (1980) Preliminary report on the pathogenicity of Legionella
     pneumophila for freshwater and soil amoeba. J. Clin. Pathol. 33, 1179–1183.
Schellart, J.A. (1986) Disinfection and bacterial regrowth: some experiences before and
     after stopping the safety chlorination by the Amsterdam Water Works. Water Supply
     4(3), 217–225.
Schoenen, D. and Schöler, H.F. (1983) Trinkwasser und Werkstoffe:
     Praxisbeobachtungen und Untersuchungsverfahren; Praxisbeobactungen und
     Untersuchungsverfahren. DVGW-Schriftenreihe, Wasser Nr. 37, Gustav Fischer
     Verlag, Stuttgart.
Schubert, R. (1976) Der Nachweis von Aeromonaden der Hydrophila-punctata Gruppe
     im Rahmen der Hygienischen Trinkwasserbeurteilung. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg.
     161, 482–497.
Schulze-Röbbecke, R. and Fischeder, R. (1989) Mycobacteria in biofilms. Zentralbl.
     Bakteriol. Hyg. 188, 385–390.
Schwartz, T., Kalmbach, S., Hoffmann, S., Szewzyk, U. and Obst, U. (1998) PCR-based
     detection of mycobacteria in biofilms from a drinking water distribution system. J.
     Microbiol. Meth. 34, 113–123.
Schweisfurth, R. and Ruf, A. (1976) Untersuchungen über das Vorkommen von
     methanoxydierenden Bakterien in Trinkwasserversorgungsanlagen. GWF-
     Wasser/Abwasser 117, 313–317.
Seidler, R.J., Morrow, J.E. and Bagley, S.T. (1977) Klebsielleae in drinking water
     emanating from redwood tanks. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 33, 893–900.
Servais, P., Billen, G. and Hascoët, M.C. (1987) Determination of the biodegradable
     fraction of dissolved organic matter in waters. Water Res. 21(4), 445–450.
Servais, P., Laurent, P., Billen, G. and Levy, Y. (1992) Etude de la colonisation
     bactérienne des réseaux de distribution. Tech. Sci. Meth. Eau 87(6), 321–326.
Servais, P., Laurent, P., Billen, G. and Gatel, D. (1995) Development of a model of
     BDOC and bacterial biomass fluctuations in distribution systems. Rev. Sci. Eau 8,
     427–462.
Sibille, I., Mathieu, L., Paquin, J.L., Gatel, D. and Block, J.C. (1997) Microbial
     characteristics of a distribution system fed with nanofiltered drinking water. Water
     Res. 31, 2318–2326.
Silvey, J.K.G. and Roach, W.W. (1953) Actinomycetes in the Oklahoma City water
     supply. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 45, 409–416.
Skadsen, J. (1993) Nitrification in a distribution system. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     85(7), 95–103.
Smalls, I.C. and Greaves, G.F. (1968) A survey of animals in distribution systems. J. Soc.
     Water Treat. Exam. 17, 150–187.
Smith, D.B., Hess, A. and Hubbs, S.A. (1990) Survey of distribution system coliform
     occurrence in the United States. In Proceedings of the American Water Works
     Association Water Quality Technology Conference, pp. 1103–1116, American
     Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Snoek, O.I. (1970) Enige chemische en bacteriologische aspecten van de toepassing van
     ozon bij de drinkwaterzuivering. H2O 3(5), 108–110.
Speh, K., Thofern, E. and Botzenhart, K. (1976) Untersuchungen zur Verkeimung von
     Trinkwasser. IV. Mitteilung: Das Verhalten bakterieller Flächenbesiedlungen in
     einem Trinkwasserspeicher bei Dauerchlorung. GWF-Wasser/Abwasser 117, 259–
     263.
230                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Stalder, K. and Klosterkötter, W. (1976) Untersuchungen zur Wiederverkeimung von
     Trinkwasser nach Ozonbehandlung. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 161, 474–481.
Taylor, R.H., Falkinham, J.O., III, Norton, C.D. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000)
     Chlorine, chloramine, chlorine dioxide, and ozone susceptibility of Mycobacterium
     avium. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 66(4), 1702–1705.
Tobin, J.O., Beare, J., Dunnill, M.S., Fisher-Hoch, S., French, M., Mitchell, R.G.,
     Morris, P.J. and Muers, M.F. (1980) Legionnaires’ disease in a transplant unit:
     isolation of the causative organism from shower baths. Lancet 2(8186), 118–121.
Trussell, R.R. (1999) Safeguarding distribution system integrity. J. Am. Water Works
     Assoc. 91(1), 46–54.
Tuovinen, O.H., Button, K.S., Vuorinen, A., Carlson, L., Mair, D.M. and Yut, L.A.
     (1980) Bacterial, chemical, and mineralogical characteristics of tubercles in
     distribution pipelines. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 72, 626–635.
Tuschewitzki, G.J., Dott, W. and Thofern, E. (1982) Methyloptrophe Bakterien im
     Trinkwasserbereich. I. Mitteilung: Vergleich der Bakterienzahlen im Wasser aus
     verschiedenen Aufbereitungsanlagen. Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Hyg. 176, 176–188.
van der Kooij, D. (1977) The occurrence of Pseudomonas spp. in surface water and in
     tap water as determined on citrate media. Antonie van Leeuwenhoek J. Microbiol.
     43, 187–197.
van der Kooij, D. (1984) The Growth of Bacteria on Organic Compounds in Drinking
     Water. Thesis, Kiwa, Rijswijk.
van der Kooij, D. (1987) The effect of treatment on assimilable organic carbon in
     drinking water. In Treatment of Drinking Water for Organic Contaminants (ed.
     P.M. Huck and P. Toft), pp. 317–328, Pergamon Press, New York.
van der Kooij, D. (1992) Assimilable organic carbon as an indicator of bacterial
     regrowth. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 84, 57–65.
van der Kooij, D. (1999) Potential for biofilm development in drinking water distribution
     systems. J. Appl. Microbiol. Symp. Suppl. 85, 39S–44S.
van der Kooij, D. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1981) Utilization of low concentrations of starch
     by a Flavobacterium species isolated from tap water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 41,
     216–221.
van der Kooij, D. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1984) Substrate utilization by an oxalate-
     consuming Spirillum species in relation to its growth in ozonated water. Appl.
     Environ. Microbiol. 47, 551–559.
van der Kooij, D. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1985) Determination of the concentration of
     maltose and starch-like compounds in drinking water by growth measurements with
     a well-defined strain of a Flavobacterium species. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 49(7),
     65–71.
van der Kooij, D. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1988a) Nutritional versatility and growth kinetics
     of an Aeromonas hydrophila strain isolated from drinking water. Appl. Environ.
     Microbiol. 54, 2842–2851.
van der Kooij, D. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1988b) Multiplication of a Klebsiella
     pneumoniae strain in water at low concentrations of substrates. Water Sci. Technol.
     30(11/12), 117–123.
van der Kooij, D. and Veenendaal, H.R (2001) Biomass production potential of materials
     in contact with drinking water: method and practical importance. Water Sci.
     Technol. Water Supply 1(3), 39–45.
                     Managing regrowth in distribution systems                          231

van der Kooij, D., Visser, A. and Oranje, J.P. (1982a) Multiplication of fluorescent
     pseudomonads at low substrate concentrations in tap water. Antonie van
     Leeuwenhoek J. Microbiol. 48, 229–243.
van der Kooij, D., Oranje, J.P. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1982b) Growth of Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa in tap water in relation to utilization of substrates at concentrations of a
     few micrograms per liter. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 44(5), 1086–1095.
van der Kooij, D., Visser, A. and Hijnen, W.A.M. (1982c) Determining the concentration
     of easily assimilable organic carbon in drinking water. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     74, 540–545.
van der Kooij, D., Hijnen, W.A.M. and Kruithof, J.C. (1989) The effects of ozonation,
     biological filtration and distribution on the concentration of easily assimilable
     organic carbon (AOC) in drinking water. Ozone Sci. Eng. 11, 297–311.
van der Kooij, D., Vrouwenvelder, J.S. and Veenendaal, H.R. (1995a) Kinetic aspects of
     biofilm formation on surfaces exposed to drinking water. Water Sci. Technol. 32,
     61–65.
van der Kooij, D., Veenendaal, H.R., Baars-Lorist, C., van der Klift, H.W. and Drost,
     Y.C. (1995b) Biofilm formation on surfaces of glass and Teflon exposed to treated
     water. Water Res. 29, 1655–1662.
van der Kooij, D., van Lieverloo, J.H.M., Schellart, J. and Hiemstra, P. (1999)
     Maintaining quality without a disinfectant residual. J. Am. Water Works Assoc.
     91(1), 55–64.
van der Wende, E., Characklis, W.G. and Smith, D.B. (1989) Biofilms and bacterial
     drinking water quality. Water Res. 23, 1313–1322.
van Lieverloo, H., van Buuren, R., Veenendaal, G. and van der Kooij, D. (1997) How to
     control invertebrates in distribution systems: by starvation or by flushing? In
     Proceedings of the American Water Works Association Water Quality Technology
     Conference, 9–12 November, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Vasconcelos, J.J., Rossman, L.A., Grayman, W.M., Boulos, P.F. and Clark, R.M. (1997)
     Kinetics of chlorine decay. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 89(7), 54–65.
Victoreen, H.T. (1984) Controlling corrosion by controlling bacterial growth. J. Am.
     Water Works Assoc. 76, 87–89.
Volk, C.J. and LeChevallier, M.W. (2000) Assessing biodegradable organic matter. J.
     Am. Water Works Assoc. 92(5), 64–76.
Volk, C., Bell, K., Ibrahim, E., Verges, D., Amy, G. and LeChevallier, M. (2000) Impact
     of enhanced and optimized coagulation on removal of organic matter and its
     biodegradable fraction in drinking water. Water Res. 34(12), 3247–3257.
Von Reyn, C.F., Maslow, J.N., Barber, T.W., Falkenham, J.O., III and Arbeit, R.D.
     (1994) Persistent colonisation of potable water as a source of Mycobacterium avium
     infection in AIDS patients. Lancet 343, 1137–1141.
VROM (2001) Besluit van 9 januari 2001 tot wijziging van het Waterleidingbesluit in
     verband met de richtlijn betreffende de kwaliteit van voor menselijke consumptie
     bestemd water (Dutch Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment).
     Staatsblad 31, 1–26.
Wadowsky, R.M., Yee, R.B., Mezmar, L., Wing, E.J. and Dowling, J.N. (1982) Hot
     water systems as sources of Legionella pneumophila in hospital and non-hospital
     plumbing fixtures. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 43, 1104–1110.
White, D.R. and LeChevallier, M.W. (1993) AOC associated with oils from lubricating
     well pumps. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 85(8), 112–114.
232                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, vol. 2, Health Criteria
    and Other Supporting Information. World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2002) Aeromonas. In Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn,
    Addendum: Microbiological Agents in Drinking-water, pp. 1–13, World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
WHO (in revision) Legionella and the Prevention of Legionellosis. World Health
    Organization, Geneva.
Wierenga, J.T. (1985) Recovery of coliforms in the presence of a free chlorine residual.
    J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 77, 83–88.
Wolfe, R.L., Lieu, N.I., Izaguirre, G. and Means, E.G. (1990) Ammonia-oxidizing
    bacteria in a chloraminated distribution system: seasonal occurrence, distribution,
    and disinfection resistance. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 56, 451–462.
Zhang, S. and Huck, P.M. (1996) Removal of AOC in biological water treatment
    processes: a kinetic model. Water Res. 30(5), 1195–1207.
Zimmermann, O.E.R. (1890) Die Bakterien unserer Trink- und Nutzwasser, insbesondere
    des Wassers der Chemnitzer Wasserleitung. Carl Brunner, Chemnitz.
12
The role of HPC in managing the
treatment and distribution of
drinking-water
W. Robertson and T. Brooks




12.1 INTRODUCTION
Safety, quality and quantity are of foremost concern when managing drinking-water
supplies. Any number of approaches can be taken to ensure effective management
during drinking-water treatment and distribution. The focus of this chapter will be
on one specific water quality measurement that can be used in a management
strategy: the test for heterotrophic plate count (HPC) bacteria.
    The use of HPC bacteria, also known as colony counts and previously known as
standard plate count bacteria, as an indicator for drinking-water quality dates back to
as early as the 1800s. Even at that time, it was known that enteric bacteria were the


 2003 World Health Organization (WHO). Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety. Edited by J. Bartram,
J. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A. Glasmacher. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK. ISBN: 1 84339 025 6.
234                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

cause of many significant illnesses, but HPC bacteria were used as surrogate
indicators because of a lack of specific detection methods for the enteric organisms.
With recent advancements in specific methodologies, such as defined-substrate
media for Escherichia coli, the applicability of HPC in the treatment and delivery of
drinking-water needs to be clarified. The information presented in this chapter
summarizes the current uses of HPC and is intended to elucidate the logical role of
these measurements in treatment plants and distribution systems as part of drinking-
water management strategies.


12.2 HPC BACTERIA IN WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
HPC has a long history as a water quality indicator. Over the decades, interpretation
of HPC results has shifted from indicating drinking-water safety to a role in
determining drinking-water quality. At present, measuring HPC bacteria in water
during treatment and immediately upon leaving the treatment plant can be used by
plant operators as one of several routine tests to monitor plant operation. Other tests
include those for coliform bacteria, turbidity and chlorine residuals. The latter two
tests are preferred because they provide real-time information on water quality and
treatment processes, whereas HPC measurements can take as long as seven days
before they become available. For day-to-day management of plant operations, the
waiting time for HPC results renders it impractical.
    HPC measurements can play an important role in validation and verification of
treatment plant procedures. Validation is used to ensure that any novel or existing
treatment process or disinfection practice is operating effectively. For example, HPC
can be used as a research tool when designing and testing new or redesigned water
treatment systems. Alternatively, verification measures the overall performance of
the system and provides information about the quality of the drinking-water. Neither
validation nor verification is suitable for continuous control of drinking-water
quality; hence, the lag time involved in testing is acceptable. Water utilities can
generally achieve heterotrophic bacteria concentrations of 10 cfu/ml or less in
finished water (Fox and Reasoner 1999). Low and consistent levels of HPC bacteria
in the finished drinking-water add assurance that the treatment process is working
properly. Other indicator bacteria, such as E. coli, thermotolerant coliforms or total
coliforms, should not be found when HPC levels are low, since they are more
susceptible than heterotrophic bacteria to disinfection.
    An increase in HPC bacteria in finished water above recommended
concentrations can indicate a problem with treatment within the plant itself or a
change in the quality of the source water being treated. When this occurs, the quality
of the finished drinking-water is questionable, and appropriate actions should be
taken to ensure that the problem is identified and corrected.
            Role of HPC in drinking-water treatment and distribution           235

12.3 HPC BACTERIA IN WATER DISTRIBUTION
     SYSTEMS
As expected, when high HPC levels are found in the water leaving the treatment
plant, the HPC levels in the distribution system are usually also high. When the
water leaving the treatment plant contains acceptable levels of HPC bacteria but
levels in the distribution system water are above the recommended limit, this
usually indicates bacterial regrowth occurring in the distribution system.
Bacterial regrowth refers to the proliferation of viable organisms present in the
water after drinking-water treatment, including the recovery and growth of
organisms that were previously injured during the water treatment process. As
stated earlier, heterotrophic bacteria acquire nutrients from their surroundings to
survive and grow. Biodegradable organic matter (BOM) and assimilable organic
carbon (AOC) that are not removed during the treatment process can provide
nutrients for bacterial regrowth. Elevated concentrations of BOM can also place
a higher demand on the disinfectant being used. In the case of chlorine, chlorine
dioxide and chloramine, increased demand can lower the effective concentration
of residual disinfectant. At lower disinfectant concentrations, the heterotrophic
flora is less adversely affected by the disinfectant residual and better able to
proliferate within the distribution system. When ozonation is used as the
disinfection process, as is widely popular in Europe, the overall organic carbon
levels are reduced but the AOC concentrations are increased, promoting
bacterial regrowth in distribution systems (Escobar et al. 2001).
   The distribution system referred to throughout this section consists of two
distinct components: the complex network of pipes transporting water from the
treatment plant to buildings and the internal plumbing systems of the structures
themselves. Interpretation of HPC measurements differs in these two
components. In the external distribution system, HPC testing can identify
problem zones where bacterial regrowth is occurring. General regrowth is not of
direct significance to public health but can contribute to the deterioration of
physical water qualities such as taste and odour. High HPC measurements can
occur during a contamination event where a health risk is possible, but HPC
measurements are not the preferred indicator of this event. In this situation,
faecal indicators, such as E. coli, are better markers of recent contamination, as
they are unable to grow in the system. High HPC measurements within building
plumbing systems may also be caused by bacterial regrowth or by
contamination events. In this component, the necessary response will be
dependent on the use of the building. All buildings should have water safety
plans (WSPs) put into practice, but the actions recommended in these plans will
vary, depending on the building. In health care facilities, for example, in-
236                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

building WSPs should detail the actions necessary when bacterial regrowth is
detected. Although general bacterial regrowth is not a public health concern, in
vulnerable populations, such as immunocompromised individuals, some
heterotrophic bacteria can cause illness. In general, regrowth bacteria are
respiratory pathogens and not pathogens associated with gastrointestinal
illnesses. For example, Legionella pneumophila, the major cause of
Legionnaires’ disease, has the ability to regrow in building plumbing systems
and infect susceptible populations. Although high HPC measurements have not
been found to correlate with illness incidence and no outbreaks have been
directly linked to elevated concentrations of HPC bacteria in tap water, they do
indicate favourable conditions for bacterial growth and should be remedied.
    The density of HPC bacteria reached in the distribution system can be
influenced by numerous parameters, including the bacterial quality of the
finished water entering the system, temperature, residence time, presence or
absence of disinfectant residual, construction materials, surface-to-volume ratio,
flow conditions and, as stated above, the availability of nutrients for growth
(Prévost et al. 1997; Payment 1999). Biofilm formation within water
distribution networks provides protection for bacteria by shielding them from
chlorine and other disinfectants. In addition to the nutrients available in the
water, the biofilm can also contain a readily available supply of nutrients to help
maintain viability and promote regrowth (Gavriel et al. 1998). Drinking-water,
in the absence of a free chlorine residual and in the presence of high turbidity
and elevated temperatures, has been found to contain as much as 10 000 cfu/ml
of HPC bacteria (Payment 1999).


12.4 HPC BACTERIA IN WATER TREATMENT DEVICES
Health Canada, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the US
Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Italian government have all, at
one time or another, proposed banning activated carbon filters used in home
drinking-water treatment devices because of the growth of HPC bacteria on the
carbon media and subsequent rises in HPC counts in the filtered water
(Regunathan and Beauman 1994). After further study, however, all four decided
against banning the filters. At Health Canada, the decision was made following
consultations with stakeholders and was based on the absence of evidence of
any illness linked to such devices. This decision was taken with the proviso that
the manufacturers and distributors of activated carbon filters agree to take steps
to help prevent the use of these devices on microbially unsafe waters or waters
of unknown quality. In addition to growth on the carbon filter, it was shown that
the filter media of some new commercial filters were already contaminated with
           Role of HPC in drinking-water treatment and distribution           237

bacteria and moulds even before being installed in homes (Daschner et al.
1996).
    Similar to water distribution systems, increased levels of HPC are not
generally a health concern in drinking-water treatment devices. Some
experimental evidence has shown that the presence of heterotrophic bacteria in
point-of-use (POU) and point-of-entry (POE) devices may be beneficial, since
ordinary bacterial growth may reduce the number of disease-causing organisms
through dilution, competition or predation inside the treatment device — i.e., in
carbon filters, resin beds, bladder tanks, etc. (Rollinger and Dott 1987). A US
patent was granted for the development of granular activated carbon (GAC)
filters containing additives intended to encourage the proliferation of beneficial
bacteria inside the filter for health purposes (Lewis and Michaels 1993). This
included the intentional inoculation of filters with beneficial bacteria such as
those found in yoghurt, as well as providing support for ordinary HPC
organisms that are native to the aquatic environment, specifically for the
purpose of inhibiting the growth of pathogens inside the filter. These beneficial
effects have not been observed in distribution systems where HPC increases are
undesirable because of water quality issues related to regrowth and lowered
disinfectant residuals. A properly maintained and operated treatment device
should not have water quality problems associated with regrowth bacteria. Some
heterotrophic bacteria are secondary pathogens, meaning that they can be
problematic for immunocompromised individuals. These organisms may grow
in the treatment devices. In most cases, these secondary pathogens are
associated with inhalation and wound infections and are not a concern for water
treatment devices used solely for consumption.


12.5 HPC BACTERIA IN BOTTLED WATER
In bottled waters, the HPC bacteria can grow to high concentrations within a
few days of bottling. In a quantitative study of bacterial populations in mineral
water, HPC bacteria (following incubation at 22 °C) increased from the initial
101–102 cfu/ml found in the source water to 105–106 cfu/ml in the bottled water
after three days of storage. The bacterial growth was not stopped even when the
water was stored at 6 °C (Gonzalez et al. 1987). There do not appear to have
been any outbreaks of infectious illness associated with high concentrations of
HPC bacteria in bottled waters.
238                      HPC and Drinking-water Safety

12.6 STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
The current standards or guidelines for HPC bacteria in tap water vary slightly
between different nations. In general, HPC monitoring is used as a tool to gain
information on the water treatment process and the general bacteriological
quality of the water leaving the water treatment plant and within the distribution
system. Examples of specific guidelines from several countries and agencies are
listed below. The current requirements for bottled water are also included for
each country.

12.6.1 World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines
The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO 1996) list HPC
bacteria as an indicator of the general bacterial content of the water at
incubation temperatures of 22 °C and 37 °C. [Editors’ note: A revised third
edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality will be finalized in
2003.] Within the WHO drinking-water guidelines, HPC results at 22 °C are
described as being of little sanitary value, but are a good indication of the
efficiency of water treatment, specifically the processes of coagulation, filtration
and disinfection, where the objective is to keep counts as low as possible. Also,
these results may be used to assess the cleanliness and integrity of the
distribution system and the suitability of the water for use in the manufacture of
food and drink, where high counts may lead to spoilage. An increase in HPC
bacteria recovered at 37 °C compared with those normally found may be an
early sign of pollution, especially if it is not accompanied by a similar rise in
HPC numbers at 22 °C. Sudden or progressive increases in HPC results in piped
water may indicate enrichment of the water with AOC in a catchment or may be
due to ingress in distributed water. In treated drinking-water that is not
biologically stable, regrowth associated with increases in water temperature is
frequent and can lead to taste and odour problems. It is suggested that an
increase at 37 °C should prompt an investigation of the treated supply or of the
catchment if the water is untreated. The draft revised WHO guidelines include
recommendations for large buildings, including health care facilities, with
respect to regrowth organisms that are a potential health concern, such as
Legionella. The guidelines recommend implementation of preventative WSPs.
These plans should specify adequate control measures previously shown to be
effective in ensuring water quality and safety.
   Although no specific numerical guidelines are recommended for HPC
bacteria in drinking-water, it is suggested that they be maintained at the lowest
level possible for aesthetic reasons and as a demonstration of treatment
sufficiency.
           Role of HPC in drinking-water treatment and distribution          239

   The Codex Alimentarius Commission (1994) develops some bottled water
standards, specifically those for natural mineral waters. These standards are
developed based on the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality. The
Codex Alimentarius Commission is also developing a draft codex for packaged
water other than mineral waters. Currently, only the WHO Guidelines for
Drinking-water Quality are applied to the latter products, and therefore the same
HPC requirements are used as stated above.

12.6.2 European guidelines
In Europe, the current drinking-water guidelines in many countries (pertaining
to water intended for human consumption) are based on recently revised
directives from the European Union (1998). The current recommended
microbiological standards include HPC limits for private supplies, i.e., no
significant increase over normal levels when incubated at 22 °C and 37 °C, and
for bottled water within 12 h of bottling, i.e., 100 cfu/ml when incubated at
22 °C for 72 h and 20 cfu/ml when incubated at 37 °C for 48 h (Barrell et al.
2000). Although the previous EU Council Directive specified non-mandatory
numerical limits for HPC bacteria, the current EU directives do not specify
numerical limits for HPC bacteria in public supplies but rather recommend no
abnormal change when incubated at 22 °C.

12.6.3 United Kingdom regulations
The United Kingdom Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations (Anonymous
2000) require colony count testing on water taken from public supplies, private
supplies and bottled water as part of their required microbiological monitoring,
based on the directives set by the European Union. Testing locations include
treatment works, service reservoirs and water supply zones. For public water
supplies, i.e., those that are provided by water purveyors via mains distribution
systems, and private supplies, no maximum allowable value for HPC is set, but
the regulations do state that there should be “no abnormal change” — i.e.,
measurements should show no sudden and unexpected increases as well as no
significant rising trend over time.
   The regulations for HPC in bottled waters in the United Kingdom are the
same as those stated in the European Union directive above (Anonymous 1999).
240                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

12.6.4 German regulations
Similar to other countries, the German Drinking Water Regulation requires HPC
monitoring of public water supply systems. This regulation is enforceable prior
to individual consumer water meters but does not apply to water within the
consumer’s system. Water quality at the consumer’s taps is included in other
public health regulations.
   The German Drinking Water Regulation states that drinking-water can
contain no more than 100 cfu/ml of HPC bacteria (Hambsch 1999). Included in
the law is the standard method required for HPC analysis. It specifies incubation
temperatures of 20 °C and 36 °C for a period of 48 h on defined substrate
media. The standardized method was integrated into the law to allow for
comparison of HPC results.

12.6.5 Canadian guidelines
Drinking-water quality guidelines in Canada are established by the Federal-
Provincial-Territorial Committee on Drinking Water. These guidelines (Health
Canada 1996) are not enforceable by law but are developed for use by each
province and territory for setting provincial standards. Because drinking-water
regulations fall under provincial and territorial jurisdiction, the enforceable
standards may vary between provinces and territories.
   The current Guidelines for Canadian Drinking Water Quality do not specify
a maximum allowable concentration for HPC bacteria but recommend that HPC
levels in municipal drinking-waters should be less than 500 cfu/ml. If the
acceptable HPC value is exceeded, an inspection of the system should be
undertaken to determine the cause of the increase in heterotrophic bacteria.
After analysis of the situation, the guidelines recommend that appropriate
actions should be taken to correct the problem and special sampling should
continue until consecutive samples comply with the recommended level.
Originally, the HPC guideline was established not to directly protect human
health; instead, it was based upon the knowledge that higher counts of
heterotrophic bacteria interfered with the lactose-based detection methods used
for total coliform bacteria. New total coliform methods, such as those using
media containing chromogenic substrates, are not affected by high numbers of
heterotrophic bacteria and therefore do not require a set upper limit for HPC.
Under these circumstances, water treatment plant operators are encouraged to
use HPC bacteria as a quality control tool.
   Bottled water in Canada falls under the jurisdiction of the Canadian Food
Inspection Agency and is regulated by the Food and Drugs Act (Health Canada
2000). These regulations do not require monitoring of HPC bacteria in water
            Role of HPC in drinking-water treatment and distribution           241

represented as mineral water or spring water. Mineral water and spring water are
defined as potable waters obtained from an underground source, but not
obtained from a public community water supply, that have undergone no
chemical modification with the exception of allowable addition of carbon
dioxide, fluoride and ozone. All bottled water not designated as mineral water or
spring water must contain no more than 100 cfu/ml of heterotrophic bacteria
(referred to as total aerobic bacteria within the Food and Drugs Act). The
official testing method is outlined in method MFO-15 (Health Canada 1981).

12.6.6 Regulations in the USA
Regulations for drinking-water quality from both private systems and public
water utilities in the USA are provided by the US EPA. Drinking-water is under
federal jurisdiction, so these regulations are enforceable across the country.
   In the USA, acceptable HPC levels in municipal drinking-water have been
set at less than 500 cfu/ml. Historically, as is the case in Canada, this level was
recommended because higher colony counts interfered with the detection of
total coliforms in lactose-based tests. During the development of the Surface
Water Treatment Rule, it was decided that maintaining an HPC concentration
below the allowable 500 cfu/ml limit could be used as a substitute for
maintaining a detectable disinfection residual (US EPA 1989). More recently,
the US EPA’s National Primary Drinking Water Standards (US EPA 2001)
express HPC as a method of measuring the variety of bacteria present in a water
sample but with no health significance. In this secondary standard, no maximum
contaminant level goal is set, but the maximum contaminant level is still 500
cfu/ml. This is not an enforceable federal standard.
   Other agencies, such as the American Water Works Association, have not
recommended an operating level or goal for HPC bacteria in drinking-water.
They do recommend minimizing HPC levels in water leaving the treatment
plant and for water in the distribution system. It is suggested that each utility
should establish baseline data for their water source based on at least two years
of sampling of plant effluent, points of mean residency time in the distribution
system and problem areas, such as dead-end reservoirs and sites downstream
from pressure-reducing valves (AWWA 1990).
   In the USA, bottled water is monitored by the Food and Drug
Administration, and no HPC standards have been established (FDA 2001).
242                       HPC and Drinking-water Safety

12.6.7 Australian guidelines
As in other countries mentioned previously, HPC is used as an indicator of
general water quality. HPC results can be used to assess the water treatment
process specifically for assessing coagulation, filtration and disinfection, since
these processes reduce the bacteria present. Measuring HPC is also useful for
determining the cleanliness and integrity of the water distribution system and for
determining the suitability of the water for processing food and drinks where
high bacterial content could lead to spoilage. The Australian drinking-water
guidelines (National Health and Medical Research Council and Agriculture and
Resource Management Council of Australia and New Zealand 1996) have set
acceptable HPC (incubation at 35–37 °C for 48 h) limits at less than 100 cfu/ml
for disinfected supplies and at less than 500 cfu/ml for undisinfected supplies. If
colony counts exceed these recommended limits, remedial action (including
cleaning storage tanks and inspection and repair of distribution systems) should
be taken. The Australian guidelines also recommend identifying dominant
bacterial species in the case of regrowth problems in the distribution system.
   Bottled water in Australia is the responsibility of the Australian New Zealand
Food Authority (2001), and it has set no HPC limits.

12.6.8 Regulations in other countries
Many countries, in addition to those described in detail above, include HPC
testing as a routine method for measuring water treatment efficiency and,
therefore, water quality. For example, the Netherlands has set limits for HPC
bacteria in drinking-water of 100 cfu/ml following 48 h of incubation at 22 °C
(Anonymous 2001). The Japanese drinking-water quality standard also includes
a numerical limit of 100 cfu/ml (National Institute of Health Sciences 2002).


12.7 CONCLUSIONS
The role of HPC measurements has changed since the method was first introduced in
the 1800s as a public health indicator. As science advanced, specific indicators of
health risk were introduced, and HPC monitoring became more useful as an
operational rather than a health-based indicator. At present, within the water treatment
plant, HPC results can be used for validation and verification of drinking-water
production. Abnormal changes in HPC bacteria can be an indicator of problems in the
treatment process. When this occurs, the quality of the finished drinking-water is
questionable, and appropriate actions should be taken to ensure that the problem is
identified and corrected. In the distribution system, in both the complex network
supplying treated drinking-water and in the internal plumbing of buildings, HPC can
             Role of HPC in drinking-water treatment and distribution                     243

identify problem areas for regrowth. Regrowth can cause aesthetic problems involving
tastes and odours, discoloured water and slime growths. Drinking-water within the
distribution system should comply with applicable standards and guidelines. All of the
guidelines or standards reviewed in this chapter for private and public drinking-water
recommend HPC bacteria levels of no more than 100 or 500 cfu/ml or no appreciable
change in the concentration of heterotrophic bacteria in the system.
    As mentioned previously, HPC is not an indicator of health risk, but can indicate
problem areas for regrowth. In plumbing systems of buildings such as health care
facilities, where the clientele includes immunocompromised individuals, some
regrowth organisms, such as Legionella, are a health concern. Although high HPC
measurements have not been found to correlate with illness incidence, they do indicate
favourable conditions for bacterial growth and should be remedied.
    Bottled water, for the purpose of drinking-water, does not follow the same
guidelines as those set out for municipal and private water supplies. In many countries,
bottled water is considered under food and drug regulations. Monitoring for HPC in
bottled water products depends on the specific nation and on the source of the bottled
water.


12.8 REFERENCES
Anonymous (1999) The Natural Mineral Water, Spring Water, and Bottled Drinking Water
     Regulations 1999. Statutory Instrument No. 1540, Stationery Office, London.
Anonymous (2000) The Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 2000. Statutory Instrument
     No. 3184, Stationery Office, London.
Anonymous (2001) Staatsblad van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden. Jaargang
     (www.vrom.nl/docs/milieu/waterleidingbesluit.pdf).
Australian New Zealand Food Authority (2001) Food Standards Code Volume 2 (Incorporating
     amendments up to and including Amendment 57).
     (http://www.foodstandards.gov.au/standardsdevelopment/oldfoodstandardscodecontents/pa
     rtononalcoholicbeverages/index.cfm).
AWWA (1990) American Water Works Association Position Statement on Water Supply
     Matters. Heterotrophic Plate Count (http://www.awwa.org/govtaff/hetplpos.htm).
Barrell, R.A.E., Hunter, P.R. and Nichols, G. (2000) Microbiological standards for water and
     their relationship to health risk. Commun. Dis. Public Health 3, 8–13.
Codex Alimentarius Commission (1994) Codex standards for natural mineral waters. In Codex
     Alimentarius, vol. XI, part III, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
     Rome.
Daschner, F.D., Ruden, H., Simon, R. and Clotten, J. (1996) Microbiological contamination of
     drinking water in a commercial household water filter system. Eur. J. Clin. Microbiol.
     Infect. Dis. 15(3), 233–237.
Escobar, I.C., Randall, A.A. and Taylor, J.S. (2001) Bacterial growth in distribution systems:
     effect of assimilable organic carbon and biodegradable dissolved organic carbon. Environ.
     Sci. Technol. 35, 3442–3447.
244                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

European Union (1998) Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality of water
     intended for human consumption. Off. J. Eur. Commun. L330, 32–53.
FDA (2001) Title 21: Food and Drugs Chapter I, Department of Health and Human Services,
     Part 165 Beverages. Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, vol. 2, pp. 521–537, US Food
     and Drug Administration, Washington, DC.
Fox, K.R. and Reasoner, D.J. (1999) Water quality in source water, treatment, and distribution
     systems. In AWWA Manual of Water Supply Practices, AWWA M48, Waterborne
     Pathogens, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Gavriel, A.A., Landre, J.P.B. and Lamb, A.J. (1998) Incidence of mesophilic Aeromonas within
     a public drinking water supply in north-east Scotland. J. Appl. Microbiol. 84, 383–392.
Gonzalez, C., Gutierrez, C. and Grande, T. (1987) Bacterial flora in bottled uncarbonated mineral
     drinking water. Can. J. Microbiol. 33, 1120–1125.
Hambsch, B. (1999) Distributing groundwater without a disinfectant residual. J. Am. Water
     Works Assoc. 91(1), 81–85.
Health Canada (1981) MFO-15. Microbiological Examination of Water in Sealed Containers
     (Excluding Mineral and Spring Water) and of Prepackaged Ice (www.hc-sc.gc.ca/food-
     aliment/).
Health Canada (1996) Guidelines for Canadian Drinking Water Quality, 6th edn. Minister of
     Public     Works       and     Government        Services      Canada,     Ottawa,     Ontario
     (www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ehp/ehd/bch/water_quality.htm).
Health Canada (2000) Division 12. Departmental Consolidation of the Food and Drugs Act and
     of the Food and Drug Regulations with Amendments to December 20, 2000. Minister of
     Public Works and Government Services Canada, Ottawa, Ontario.
Lewis, D.S. and Michaels, G.E. (1993) Dolomitic Activated Carbon Filter. US Patent No.
     5,198,114.
National Health and Medical Research Council and Agriculture and Resource Management
     Council of Australia and New Zealand (1996) Australian Drinking Water Guidelines —
     Summary. Commonwealth of Australia.
National Institute of Health Sciences (2002) Waterworks Law (21 December 1992). Water
     Quality Standard of Drinking Water (www.nihs.go.jp/law/suido/esuido.html).
Payment, P. (1999) Heterotrophic bacteria. In AWWA Manual of Water Supply Practices,
     AWWA M48, Waterborne Pathogens, American Water Works Association, Denver, CO.
Prévost, M., Rompré, A., Baribeau, H., Coallier, J. and Lafrance, P. (1997) Service lines: their
     effect on microbiological quality. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 89(7), 78–91.
Regunathan, P. and Beauman, W.H. (1994) Significance of heterotrophic bacteria in drinking
     water. In Water Quality Association’s 20th Annual Convention and Exhibition, 15–20
     March, Phoenix, AZ, Water Quality Association, Lisle, IL.
Rollinger, Y. and Dott, W. (1987) Survival of selected bacterial species in sterilized activated
     carbon filters and biological activated carbon filters. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 53, 777–781.
US EPA (1989) 40 CFR Parts 141 and 142 Drinking Water; National Primary Drinking Water
     Rules and Regulations; filtration, disinfection; turbidity, Giardia lamblia, viruses,
     Legionella, and heterotrophic bacteria; final rule. US Environmental Protection Agency.
     Fed. Regist. 54(124), 27486–27541.
US EPA (2001) National Primary Drinking Water Standards. EPA 816-F-01-007, March, US
     Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC (www.epa.gov/safewater).
WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2nd edn, vol. 2, Health Criteria and Other
     Supporting Information. pp. 88, 105–110, World Health Organization, Geneva.
Index


σ factor-directed changes 81                                    risk assessment of opportunistic
16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) 50–1                             bacterial pathogens 141
About Detection Methods for                                     virulence factors 147
      Microorganisms in Water xiv                         A. veronii subspecies sobria 53
Acanthamoeba                                              biological stability 215
      cell culture 150                                    distribution system regrowth 193, 201
      contact lenses 100                                  epidemiological studies 124–5
      distribution system regrowth 193                    potential health concern 62–4
Acinetobacter                                       aerosol inhalation 140–1, 142
      hazard identification 129–30                  aesthetic quality of piped water supplies 5
      natural mineral water 105                     AFLP see amplified fragment length
      risk assessment of opportunistic                    polymorphism
      bacterial pathogens 141                       aftergrowth see regrowth
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome                 AIDS see HIV/AIDS
      see HIV/AIDS                                  aircraft 6–7
actinomycetes, distribution system                  Alcaligenes 105
      regrowth 203                                  ambulatory patients 139–40
activated carbon filters                            amoebae, Legionella relationship 99–100
      see also granular activated carbon            amplified fragment length polymorphism
      banning proposals 235–6                             (AFLP) 162–3
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) assay 206–7            amplifiers, bacterial 92
Aeromonas 53, 91–2                                  animal model systems, autochthonous
      A. caviae 53                                        bacteria health risk assessment 110
      A. hydrophila 53                              antibody-based methods 153–4
            dose–response assessment 131            AOC level see assimilable organic carbon
            potential health concern 62, 63         arbitrarily primed PCR (AP-PCR) 162–3
                                                    Asellus 204
                                              [ 245 ]
246                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Aspergillus 140–1                              biofilm formation rate (BFR) 210, 212
assimilable organic carbon (AOC)               biofilms 82–3
      bacterial growth 181–4                         coliform and HPC bacteria growth
      biological filtration 217                      conditions 177–97
      biological stability 215                       disinfectant 179–81
      microbial activity promotion 210–11            distribution system regrowth control
at-risk groups 8–9                                   218, 219, 220
ATP see adenosine triphosphate                       formation 83
Australian drinking-water guidelines 241             frank and opportunistic bacterial
auto-disinfection, point-of-entry devices 57         pathogens 146–76
autochthonous bacteria 108–11                        monochloramine effect 220
                                                     oxygen availability 82
Bacillus                                             Pseudomonas 81
     natural mineral water 105                       recent development influences 14, 15
     treatment efficiency indicators 35              structure 82, 83
bacteria                                             water distribution 95–6, 112–13, 235
     see also individual types; regrowth       bioinformatics 167
     amplifiers 92                             biological filtration 217
     characteristic spectrum 15–16             biological heterogeneity 95–7
     coliform 177–97                           biological instability 95–7
     commensal 62–6                            biological stability
     detection in water 50–1                         microbial activity promotion 214–16
     enumeration 146–76                              water treatment 216–18
     identification 146–76                     biological warfare agents 75, 76, 167
     isolates 36                               biomass production potential (BPP) test
     mineral water 106, 107–9                        213
     orally transmitted waterborne             bioterrorism threat agents 75, 76
     pathogens 66–7                            BOM see biodegradable organic matter
     pathogen relationship 80–118              bottle effect 101–2
     pathogens 66–7, 89                        bottled water
     population composition changes 16               habitat 101–3
     potential health concern 61–79                  health effect studies 39
     risks 15–17                                     HPC bacteria 236
     stress 97                                       HPC test uses 6
The Bacteriological Examination of                   process 101–2
     Water-Supplies 30                               standards 238, 239–40, 241
bacteriophage models 148–9                     BPP see biomass production potential
bathrooms 140                                  buildings, large 4
BDOC see biodegradable dissolved               Burkholderia
     organic carbon                                  B. cepacia
BFR see biofilm formation rate                             hazard identification 130
bioassays, assimilable organic carbon 181                  ribotyping 160
biodegradable dissolved organic carbon               B. pseudomallei, health concern
     (BDOC)                                          potential 74
     bacterial growth 183, 185
     biological filtration 217                 Campylobacter
     biological stability 215                     C. jejuni 68, 156–7
     microbial activity promotion 211             health significance 68–9
biodegradable organic matter (BOM) 234            monoclonal antibody detection 154
                                           Index                                       247

Canada, Guidelines for Canadian Drinking           colonization, disease potential
      Water Quality 239                                 distinction 131–2
cancer, Helicobacter pylori 94                     colony counts
Candida 140                                             historical aspects 13–14
cast iron pipes 213                                     new procedures 15
catheterized patients 8, 18                        commensal bacteria, potential health
causality, demonstration criteria 119–                  concern 62–6
      20                                           compromised hosts see
cell culture 150                                        immunocompromised patients
chip technology 165–7                              concentration, target bacteria 150, 152
chloramines                                        contact lenses
      coliform bacteria 179–81, 182,                    Acanthamoeba 100
      183, 186                                          Pseudomonas aeruginosa 65
      distribution system regrowth                 conveyances, HPC test uses 6–7
      control 219–20                               corrosion
      Legionella control 193                            biofilm bacteria 184–9
chlorine                                                distribution system 204, 213, 220
      coliform bacteria 179–81, 182,               coupon devices 149
      183                                          Crohn’s disease
      corrosion control and pipe                        Mycobacterium avium complex
      materials 184–5                                   54
      distribution system regrowth                      Mycobacterium paratuberculosis
      control 218–19                                    73–4
      Legionella control 193                       cryptosporidiosis
cholera                                                 exposure assessment 130
      Elbe River 22                                     Milwaukee outbreak 199
      historical aspects 13, 14                    Cryptosporidium 178
      London outbreaks 20, 21                      culture media 205
      Vibrio cholerae 71                           culture-based methods 150
chromogenic substances 153
Chryseobacterium (Flavobacterium)                  data interpretation 24–5
      meningosepticum                              denaturing gradient gel
      hazard identification 129                         electrophoresis (DGGE) 163–4
      water supply related disease                 dental facilities 9, 17
      outbreaks 127, 128                           detection
classification, water 32                                bacteria in water 50–1
Clostridium, natural mineral water                      recent developments 15
      105                                          DGGE see denaturing gradient gel
clothes-washing industry 22                             electrophoresis
Cohn, Ferdinand 22                                 dialysis facilities 9
Coliform Rule 34                                   diarrhoea
coliforms 29                                            Aeromonas 53, 62–4, 91, 124–5
      conditions favouring growth                       Yersinia 64
      177–97                                       directives
      distribution system regrowth 200                  EC Council Directive 98/83 EC
      microbial safety not ensured by                   17
      absence 199                                       EU 27–8
      water softeners disinfection 57                   food products microbial quality
                                                        39–40
248                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

discoloured water 203, 204                    epidemiology
disinfection                                       disease linked to HPC bacteria 119–36
      automatic 57                                 health aspects 7–8
      coliform and HPC bacteria                    heath effect studies 38–9
      growth conditions 179–81, 182                immunodeficiency 138–9
      distribution system regrowth                 point-of-use devices 38–9
      control 218–20                               studies of human illness and HPC
      resistance 49–50                             121–2
dissolved organic carbon (DOC)                Escherichia coli
      microbial activity promotion 210,            enteric bacteria model 98–9
      211                                          fluorescence in situ hybridization 159
      starvation-survival lifestyle 85             health significance 69–70
distribution system                                immunocompromised patients 140
      biological heterogeneity and                 immunomagnetic separation 155
      instability 95–7                             monoclonal antibody detection 154
      heterotrophic bacteria 94–100                nutrient stress response 84
      HPC role 234–5                               survival in mineral water 107
      Mycobacterium avium complex                  viability 51
      189–92                                       virulence factors 147
      regrowth management 198–231                  water softeners disinfection 57
DNA chip technology 76, 165–7                 EU directives 27–8
DOC see dissolved organic carbon              European drinking-water guidelines 238
dose–response assessment 130–1                examination time after sampling 31–2
dysentery 71                                  exposure
                                                   health aspects 7
EC Council Directive 98/83 EC 17                   quantitative microbial risk assessment
ecosystem, drinking-water 81–6                     130
EEC directives, food products microbial
      quality 39–40                           faecal indicator organisms test 76
effluent water consumption 36–7               faecal-specific indicator bacteria 2
Elbe River 22                                 filtration
Elements of Bacteriology with Special                activated carbon 235–6
      Reference to Sanitary Water Analysis           biological stability 217–18
      29–30                                          coliform and HPC bacteria growth
emerging pathogens 72–5                              conditions 179
energy sources 209–12                                concentration of target bacteria 150,
enteric bacteria 89, 98–9, 107                       152
enteric fevers, Salmonella 70                        efficiency 22–3
enteric protozoa 89                                  performance measures 13–14
enteric viruses 89                                   point-of-use 121–2
Enterococcus                                  fingerprinting methods, pathogen detection
      E. faecalis, immunocompromised                 159–65
      patients 140                            FISH see fluorescence in situ hybridization
      E. faecium, immunocompromised           Flavobacterium
      patients 140                                   see also Chryseobacterium
enteropathogenic Escherichia coli 69                 distribution system regrowth 201
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli 69           flora, change indication 76
enterotoxin activity, Aeromonas 63            fluorescein diacetate 50
enzyme-specific tests 153
                                               Index                                     249

fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)                  food products microbial quality
      103                                                  39–40
      distribution system microbial activity           Guidelines for Canadian Drinking
      assessment 207–8                                     Water Quality 239
      pathogen detection 158–9                         Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
food 37–8, 39–41                                           (WHO) 3–4, 17, 237–8
food-chain, microbial 83                               Guidelines for Safe Recreational
Francisella tularensis 74–5                                Water Environments, WHO 7
frank bacterial pathogens 146–76
Frankland, Percy 24, 30                                hazard identification 129–30
frozen desserts 40–1                                   health
fungi                                                       epidemiology 7–8, 38–9
      distribution system regrowth 203                      exposure to HPC microbiota 7
      infections 140–1                                      opportunistic pathogens 35–8
Fusarium 140–1                                              specific organisms 8
                                                       health centre infection control 9
GAC see granular activated carbon filters              health concern potential 61–79
gastrointestinal illness                               Helicobacter pylori 94
      Campylobacter 68–9                                    distribution system regrowth 193
      epidemiology 38–9, 121–2                              health concern potential 72
      Escherichia coli 69–70                                monoclonal antibody detection
      Salmonella 70–1                                       154
gelatin plate method 22                                     polymerase chain reaction 157–8
gene chip technology 165–7                             helminths 67
gene sequence-based methods 155                        heterogeneity
germ theory of disease 87                                   biological 95–7
German Drinking Water Regulation                            pipe networks 94–5, 112
      14, 17, 239                                      heterotroph definition 2
granular activated carbon (GAC)                        heterotrophic bacteria
      filters                                               distributions systems 94–100
      bacterial growth 188–9                                drinking-water ecosystem
      bacterial regrowth 56                                 inhabitants 81–6
      encouragement of beneficial                           natural mineral water 100–11
      bacteria 236                                          pathogens interactions 97–100
      gastrointestinal illness 121                     heterotrophic plate count (HPC)
groundwaters, historical view 31                            conditions favouring growth
growth                                                      177–97
      see also regrowth                                     definition and scope 2
      bacteria in drinking-water 81–2                       epidemiological and risk
      bottle habitat 102–3                                  assessment evidence 119–36
      coliform and HPC bacteria 177–97                      food 39–41
guidance history (UK), HPC 26                               immunocompromised patients
Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation in                          137–45
      Aviation, WHO 7                                       management of drinking water
Guide to Ship Sanitation, WHO 7                             treatment and distribution 232–43
guidelines                                                  public health aspects 12–19
      see also regulations; standards                       United Kingdom
      1970s and 1980s 41–2                                        current use 28–9
      1990s 42                                                    early use 25
250                         HPC and Drinking-water Safety

heterotrophic plate count (HPC)                     sociodemographic changes 18
      United Kingdom (cont’d)                 immunological methods 153–5
             guidance 26                      immunomagnetic separation (IMS)
             levels interpretation 26–8             microarray technology 165
      water softeners disinfection 57               pathogen detection 154–5
high-risk areas 18                            IMS see immunomagnetic separation
history                                       increased HPC values 202–3
      American perspective 29–35              incubation period 32
      filter efficiency and limit setting     infant randomized trials 110
      22–3                                    infections, immunocompromised patients
      HPC in drinking-water quality                 137–45
      management 20–48                        infectious doses 89–90
History (cont’d)                              inhalation of aerosols 140–1, 142
      HPC role 13–14                          instability, biological 95–7
      microbes discovery and                  intercellular communication 82–3
      cultivation 21–2                        invertebrates 204
      UK water microbiology 23–9              iron bacteria 203
HIV/AIDS                                      iron pipes 184, 187, 188
      see also immunocompromised              ISO standards, microbiological drinking-
      patients                                      water analyses 151–2
      Mycobacterium avium complex
      93, 123–4, 190                          Johne’s disease 73
hospitals
      infection see nosocomial disease        Klebsiella 64
      water quality regulations 18            Koch, Robert xiv, 12, 13, 21
host damage 88                                     filter efficiency 22–3
host-microbe interactions 88                       limit setting 22–3
host-parasite equilibrium 87–8                Koch’s postulates 119–20
HPC see heterotrophic plate count
human immunodeficiency virus see              Larson index 186–7
      HIV/AIDS                                Legionella 92
hydraulic conditions 213–14                        amoebae relationship 99–100
ill health response 29                             biofilm control 193
immunocompromised patients 8–9, 137–45             distribution system regrowth 201
      see also HIV/AIDS                            drinking-water analysis standards 151
      ambulatory 139–40                            health care facilities 9
      care 139–40                                  L. pneumoniae 55
      defence functions 139                        L. pneumophila 92
      effluent water consumption 36–7                    amoebae relationship 99–100
      epidemiology 138–9                                 amplified fragment length
      fungal infections 140–1                      polymorphism 162–3
      Mycobacterium avium complex 54,                    building plumbing systems 235
      93, 140, 142                                       cell culture 150
      opportunistic microorganisms 88                    immunocompromised patients
      pathophysiology 138–9                              140, 141, 142
      protection level definitions 143–4                 restriction fragment length
      protection measures 144                            polymorphism 161
      risk assessment 141–3                              viable but non-culturable
      "sentinel chicken" concept 144                     bacteria 158
                                             Index                                        251

      large building piped water systems 4           microbiological load 50
      monoclonal antibody detection 154              microbiology, UK history 23–8
      potable water–infection association            microdiversity, natural mineral water 106
      127                                            microorganisms
Legionnaire’s disease 55                                  see also individual types
legislation, UK 27                                        growth in water 2–3
life cycles, bacteria development in                      natural mineral water 103–6
      drinking-water 81                                   pipe surface effect on community
limit setting 22–3                                        composition 187
Listeria monocytogenes,                              microscopes 21
      immunocompromised patients 140                 Milwaukee cryptosporidiosis outbreak
low-molecular-weight RNA profiling                        199
      (LMW RNA) 160                                  mineral water see natural mineral water
                                                     MLEE see multilocus enzyme
MAC see Mycobacterium avium complex                       electrophoresis
mandatory HPC values                                 MLST see multilocus sequence typing
     1970s and 1980s 41–2, 43                        models, distribution system regrowth
     Europe (1977) 43                                     214
marine recreational waters 62                        Modified Robbins Devices (MRDs) 149
materials                                            monitoring water quality 75–6, 204–5
     microbial growth promotion 212–13,              monochloramine see chloramines
     218                                             monoclonal antibodies 154
     pipes and biofilm control 184–9                 Moraxella 141
mathematical models 131                              MRDs see Modified Robbins Devices
mean dissolved oxygen difference                     mRNA see messenger RNA
     (MDOD) test 212–13                              multilocus enzyme electrophoresis
media                                                     (MLEE) 159, 165
     Cohn, Ferdinand 22                              multilocus sequence typing (MLST)
     heterotrophic plate counts 205                       typing 165
     recent developments 14, 15                      multiplication power see power of
medical devices 17                                        multiplication
melioidosis 74                                       Mycobacterium
membrane filtration                                       distribution system regrowth 201
     biological stability 217–18                          epidemiological studies 123–4
     concentration of target bacteria 150,                health concern potential 73–4
     152                                                  M. avium, cell culture 150
     microarray technology 165                            M. avium complex (MAC) 16, 54,
mesenteric adenitis 64                                    93, 123–4
messenger RNA (mRNA) 51                                         biofilm control 189–92
metabolic stress 86                                             health concern potential 73
method diversity, 1980s 44                                      immunocompromised patients
microarray technology 165–7                               54, 93, 140, 142
microbial activity                                        M. intracellulare 93
     distribution systems                                 M. kansasii 93
           assessment 204–9                               M. paratuberculosis 73–4
           control 216–21                                 M. tuberculosis 54, 73
           promoting factors 209–16                       M. xenopi 73
           water quality problems 199–                    monoclonal antibody detection 154
           204                                            polymerase chain reaction 156, 157
252                          HPC and Drinking-water Safety

national regulations see regulations           Pasteur, Louis 21
natural mineral water                          pathogenicity 87
     bottle habitat 101–3                      pathogens
     gram-negative bacteria 103–5                    definitions 86–7
     gram-positive bacteria 105–6                    emerging 72–5
     heterotrophic bacteria and                      fate in natural mineral water 106–9
     pathogens 100–11                                heterotrophic bacteria interactions
     pathogens fate 106–9                            97–100
     rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide                   microbial 52–5
     probes 106                                      natural mineral water 100–11
     standards 101                                   recognized 66–72
nomenclature 41–2                                    water bacteria relationship 80–118
nosocomial disease                             pathophysiology, immunodeficiency 138–9
     commensal bacteria 66                     PCR see polymerase chain reaction
     control 9                                 Petri, Richard Julius 22
     Legionella 193                            phages, biofilm testing 148–9
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa 126, 128           phenotypic plasticity 81
nucleic acid-based methods 50–1, 155–67        phosphate corrosion inhibition 185, 186
nuisance organisms 203–4                       pigmented bacteria 201
nutrient limitation 84–5                       piped water supplies
nutrient-rich media 50                               aesthetic quality 5
nutrients 84–5                                       validation and verification 4–5
                                                     water quality targets 4
odours 29, 203                                       water safety plans 3–4
off-tastes 29                                  pipes
oligotrophic environments 82, 96                     biofilm bacteria 184–8
operation devices 17                                 microbial growth potential 212–13
opportunistic microorganisms 88                      spatial and temporal heterogeneity
opportunistic pathogens 8                            94–5
      distribution system regrowth 200–2       pitting, water pipes 186
      examples 52–5                            planktonic biofilm transformation 81
      growth promotion by materials in         plate counts
      treated water 212                              American perspective 29–35
      health effects 35–8                            guideline values 27–8
      identification and enumeration                 interference 34–5
      146–76                                   plumbed-in devices 6
      point-of-use devices 38, 55–6            point-of-entry (POE) devices
orally transmitted waterborne pathogens              auto-disinfection effect 57
      66–8                                           bacterial regrowth 55–6
organic matter 85                                    health effect studies 38–9
      see also biodegradable organic matter          regrowth beneficial effects 56–7
outbreaks, potential waterborne pathogens      point-of-use (POU) devices
      68                                             bacterial regrowth 55–6
outpatients see ambulatory patients                  beneficial presence of HPC bacteria
oxidative stress 97                                  236
oxygen availability 82                               epidemiological studies 121–2
                                                     health effect studies 38–9
packaged water see bottled water
paratyphoid 70
                                               Index                                               253

polymerase chain reaction (PCR)                             potential health concern 65
     amplified fragment length                         public health aspects 12–19
     polymorphism 162–3                                pulmonary diseases 16
     arbitrarily primed PCR 162–3                      PVC see polyvinyl chloride
     distribution system microbial activity
     assessment 207–8                                  QMRA see quantitative microbial risk
     pathogen detection 147–8, 155–8                         assessment
     repetitive gene PCR 163                           quality targets see water quality targets
     restriction fragment length                       quantitative microbial risk assessment
     polymorphism 161                                        (QMRA) 128–32
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes 187, 188                quorum sensing 82
populations, at risk 8–9
POU see point-of-use                                   R2A media 50
power of multiplication, water energy                  randomized trials 110
     sources 209–12                                    recognized pathogens 66–72
probes, nucleic acid 50–1                              regrowth
proof of disease causation 119–20                            bacteria in water 49–60
protection level definitions 143–4                           beneficial effects 56–7
protective effect, bacterial regrowth 56–7                   definition 2
protozoa 67, 89                                              determinants 3
pseudo-outbreaks, atypical mycobacteria                      distribution system management
     123                                                     198–231, 234–5
Pseudomonas 54                                               microbial 51–2
     natural mineral water 104–5                             point-of-entry devices 55–6
     nutrient conditions response 81                         point-of-use devices 55–6
     P. aeruginosa 54, 90–1                            regulations
           biofilms 81                                       see also guidelines; standards
           bottled waters 6, 107–9                           1980s diversity 44
           dental units 17                                   Germany 14, 17, 239
           distribution system regrowth 201                  national drinking-water 17
           dose–response assessment 130–1                    United Kingdom 27–8, 238
           drinking-water analysis standards                 United States of America 240
           151                                               water quality in high-risk areas 18
           epidemiological studies 125–6               regulatory monitoring 28
           hazard identification 129                   repetitive gene PCR 163
           health care facilities 9                    ‘Report 71’ 25, 26, 27
           immunocompromised patients                  research, outstanding questions 9–10
           140                                         residence time 189
           potential health concern 65                 resistance
           risk assessment of opportunistic                  bacterial nutrient starvation response
     bacterial pathogens 141                                 85
           water supply related disease                      disinfection 49–50
     outbreaks 128                                     response pathways 82
     P. multivorans, water supply related              restriction fragment length polymorphism
     disease outbreaks 127                                   (RFLP) 161
     P. paucimobilis                                   resuscitation, culturable bacteria in mineral
           hazard identification 129                         water 102–3
           water supply related disease                reverse osmosis units 38–9, 122
     outbreaks 127                                     review periods 29
254                        HPC and Drinking-water Safety

RFLP see restriction fragment length               see also guidelines; regulations
      polymorphism                                 1990s 42
16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) 50–1                      drinking water policy 132
ribotyping 159–60                                  European 238
risk assessment                                    microbiological drinking-water
      disease linked to HPC bacteria               analyses 151–2
      128–32                                       natural mineral water 101
      immunocompromised patients 141–3             violations of drinking-water
      recent developments 15–17                    microbial 178
risk categorization 131–2                          World Health Organization
Robbins devices see Modified Robbins               guidelines 237–8
      Devices                                starvation response 86
rRNA see 16S ribosomal RNA                   starvation stress 97
rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes 106     starvation-survival lifestyle 84–5
                                             Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
safety management see water safety                 hazard identification 129
      plans                                        risk assessment of opportunistic
Salmonella                                         bacterial pathogens 141
      drinking-water analysis standard             water supply related disease
      151                                          outbreaks 127
      health significance 70–1               Surface Water Treatment Rule 34
      immunocompromised patients 140         survival
      survival in mineral water 107                enteric bacteria in mineral water 107
samples, conservation 31                           starvation-survival lifestyle 84–5
sand filtration 13                           symbiotic relationships 100
sanitarians 21                               syntrophic relationships 83
scavenging 84, 85
sediments 213                                tanks 7
Shigella 71                                  tap water 39
ships 6–7                                    taste complaints 203
showering 140–1, 142                         TDC see total direct counts
signalling molecules 82–3                    temperature
Simpson, James 22                                  coliform and HPC bacteria growth
single-strand conformation polymorphism            conditions 179, 180
      (SSCP) 164–5                                 distribution system regrowth 213–14
slime see biofilms                           temperature gradient gel electrophoresis
Smith, Theobald 87                                 (TGGE) 164
Snow, John 20, 21                            temporal heterogeneity 94–5, 112
sociodemographic situation 17–18             test conditions 2
sources of drinking water 80–1               TGGE see temperature gradient gel
spatial heterogeneity 94–5, 112                    electrophoresis
SSCP see single-strand conformation          THM see trihalomethanes
      polymorphism                           threshold criteria 183, 184
stability see biological stability           total coliform assay 34–5
stagnation 189                               total direct counts (TDC) 205–6
Standard Methods 33, 42                      treatment process performance 4–5
Standard Plate Count, USA 33–4               trend monitoring 28
standard plate count density 37              trihalomethanes (THM) 180, 218
standards                                    trophic chains 96
                                               Index                                         255

tuberculosis                                                       virulence factors 65
      see also Mycobacterium                                 V. parahaemolyticus 71–2
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis 73                    virulence 87
tularaemia 74–5                                              autochthonous bacteria health risk
typhoid                                                      assessment 110–11
      disease transmission mechanism 21–                     factors 147–8
      2                                                            commensal bacteria 65
      historical aspects 13, 14                                    HPC bacteria 38
      Salmonella 70                                                potential health concern 65
                                                       viruses 89
ulcers 72, 94                                                biofilms 178
ultramicrobacteria 84                                        orally transmitted waterborne
ultramicrocells 84                                           pathogens 67
United Kingdom (UK)                                    volume effect 102
     food products microbial quality 39–               VTEC see verocytotoxigenic Escherichia
     40                                                      coli
     regulations 27–8, 238
     water microbiology history 23–8                   water bacteria–pathogen relationship 80–
     Water Supply (Water Quality)                           118
     Regulations (2000) 238                            water classification 32
United States of America (USA)                         water contact surfaces 177–97
     drinking-water regulations 240                    water distribution systems
     HPC microorganisms measurement                         microbial regrowth 51–2
     33–4                                                   trophic chains 96
                                                       water management 3, 232–43
validation                                             water microbiology 23–8
      definition 4                                     water quality
      piped water supplies 4–5                              history 198–9, 232–3
      water treatment plants 233                            microbial activity problems 199–204
van Leeuwenhoek, Antoni 21                                  regulations in high-risk areas 18
VBNC bacteria see viable but non-                           targets 4
      culturable bacteria                              water safety plans (WSPs)
verification                                                building plumbing systems 234–5
      definition 4–5                                        drinking-water supply safety
      piped water supplies 4–5                              management 132
      water treatment plants 233                            piped water supplies 3–4
verocytotoxigenic Escherichia coli                     water softeners 57
      (VTEC) 69–70                                     Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations
viability 50–1                                              2000 238
viable but non-culturable (VBNC) bacteria              water treatment
      51, 86                                                biological stability 216–18
      fluorescence in situ hybridization 158                devices 51–2, 235–6
      frank and opportunistic bacterial                     HPC role 232–43
      pathogens 150                                         plants 233
      immunomagnetic separation 155                    waterborne disease 37, 66–72, 89–94
Vibrio                                                 World Health Organization (WHO) 237–8
      health significance 71–2                         WSP see water safety plans
      V. cholerae
            health significance 71
256                     HPC and Drinking-water Safety

Xanthomonas 141                           Yersinia 64
                                          zinc orthophosphate corrosion inhibition
yeast extract agar 26                           185
