Pathogenic
Mycobacteria
in Water
A Guide to Public Health Consequences,
Monitoring and Management
Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water
 World Health Organization titles with IWA Publishing
Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health edited by Lorna Fewtrell and Jamie Bartram (200 1)

                            WHO Drinking Water Quality Series
Assessing Microbial Safety ofDrinking Water.' Improving Approaches And Methods edited by
Al Dufuur, Mario Snozzi, WoJ:tgang Koster, Jamie Bartram, Elettra Ronchi and Loma FewtrelL (2003)

Water Treatment and Pathogen Control: Process Efficiency in Achieving Safo Drinking Water by
Mark W LeChevallier and Kwok-Ketulg Au. (2004)

Sqfe Piped Water: Managing Mzcrobial Water Quality in Piped Distribution Systems by Richard
Ainsworth. (2004)

Forthcoming
Fluoride in Drinking Water edited by K. Bailey, 1. Chilton, E. Dahi, M. Lennon, P. Jackson
and 1. Fawell.

Arsenic in Drinking Water by WHO/World BankiUNICEF as a cooperative effort of a series
of UN agencies.

           WHO Emerging Issues in Water & Infectious Disease Series
Heterotrophic Plate Counts and Drinking-water Safety: The Significance ofHPCs for Water Quality
and Human Health edited by 1. Bartram, 1. Cotruvo, M. Exner, C. Fricker, A Glasmacher. (2003)

Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health Consequences, MonitOring and
Management edited by S. Pedley, 1. Bartram, G. Rees, A Dufour and 1. Co1ruvo. (2004)

Waterborne Zoonoses: Identijicatian, Causes and Control edited by J.A Cotmvo, A Dufuur, G. Rees,
1. Bartram, R Carr, D.O. Cliver, G.F. Craun, R Fayer, and v.PJ. Gannon. (2004)

Forthcoming
Water Recreation and Disease: An Expert Review of the Plausibility of Associated Infections,
their Acute Effects, Sequelae and Mortality edited by K. Pond.



    For further details contact: Portland Customer Setvices, Commerce Way, Colchester, Essex, C02 8lIP, UK.
     Tel: +44(0) 1206 796351; Fax: +44 (0) 1206 799331; Email: sales@portland-services.com;ororderonJineat:
                                    www.iwapublishing.com
 Pathogenic Mycobacteria
 in Water
 A Guide to Public Health Consequences,
 Monitoring and Management



Edited by
S. Pedley, 1 Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour, lA. Cotruvo




   .~
  ~ ~ ~
     ..

   ~lil
     -~
World Health Organization
                            e
                            Publishing
Published ou behalf of the World Health Organization by
IW A Publishing, Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London SWIH OQS, UK
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7654 5500; Fax: +44 (0) 20 76545555; Email: publications@iwap.co.uk
www.iwapublishing.com

First published 2004
© World Health Organization (WHO) 2004
Printed by TJ International (Ltd), Padstow, Cornwall, UK

Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under
the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1998), no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or
transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, or, in the case of
photographic reproduction, in accordance with the terms oflicences issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency in
the UK, or in accordance with the terms of licenses issued by the appropriate reproduction rights organization
outside the UK. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the terms stated here should be sent to IW A Publishing
at the address printed above.
     The publisher makes no representation, express or implied, with regard to the accuracy of the information
contained in this book and cannot accept any legal responsibility or liability for errors or omissions that may be made.

Disclaimer
The opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views or
policies of the International Water Association or the World Health Organization. IW A, WHO and the editors will
not accept responsibility for any loss or damage suffered by any person acting or refraining from acting upon any
material contained in this publication.
     In addition, the mention of specific manufacturers' products does not imply that they are endorsed or
recommended in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the
names of proprietary products are distingnished by initial capital letters.
     The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression
of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country,
territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines
on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.

British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A CIP catalogne record for this book is available from the British Library

WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
Pathogenic mycobacteria in water: a guide to public health consequences, monitoring
and management / J. Bartram ... [et al.l .
(Emerging issues in water and infectious diseases)
     l.Potable water - microbiology        2.Water microbiology     3.Mycobacteria, Atypical - pathogenicity
4.Mycobacterium infections, Atypical - etiology 5.Environmental exposure 6.Cost of illness J.Bartram, Jamie.
IJ.Series.

ISBN 92 4 156259 5                                                  (LCINLM classification: QW 80)
ISSN 1728-2160
ISBN I 84339 059 0 (IW A Publishing)
Contents



       Preface
                                                                         xi
       Acknowledgements
                                                                        xiii
       Executive Summary
                                                                         xv
       List ofacronyms and abbreviations
                                                                        xxi
  1    Introduction
                                                                          1
       G. Nichols, T. Ford, J. Bartram, A. Dufour and F. Portaels
1.1   Environmental Mycobacteria
1.2   Nomenclature and typing
                                                                          2
1.3   Understanding the disease
                                                                          5
      1.3.1 The epidemiology of environmental mycobacteria                5
      1.3.2 Risk factors
1.4                                                                      7
      Pathogenic mycobacteria in water
                                                                         7
      1.4.1 Water supply
                                                                         7
      1.4.2 Recently reported cases ofwaterbome mycobacterial disease    8
1.5   Global Burden of Disease
                                                                         8
      1.5.1 Crohn disease and lohne disease
                                                                        11
1.6   Control measures
1.7                                                                     12
      Genomic and evolutionary perspectives
1.8                                                                     12
      Key research issues
                                                                        14


                                     [v]
vi                              Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

               Natural ecology and survival in water of mycobacteria of                   15
      2
               potential public health significance
               1.0. Falkinham, G. Nichols, J. Bartram, A. Dufour and F. Portaels
               The ecology of environmental mycobacteria                                  16
     2.1
                                                                                          16
               2.1.1 Protozoa, helminths and insects
                                                                                          16
               2.1.2 Infections in birds and animals
                                                                                          17
               2.1.3 Infections in fish
               Physiologic characteristics of M avium relevant to its ecology             18
     2.2
               and distribution
                2.2.1 Physiologic characteristics of M avium that are                     18
                determinants of its ecology
                                                                                          20
                2.2.2 M avium physiologic ecology
                Heterogeneity of Environmental Isolates of M avium                        21
     2.3
                2.3.1 Impact of heterogeneity on identifYing sources of human infection   21
                2.3.2 M avium fingerprinting methods                                      21
                Changes in the Occurrence in Mycobacterial Species                        22
     204
                204.1 Shift of M scrofulaceum to M avium in cervical                      22
                lymphadenitis in children
                 204.2 Selection of mycobacteria by disinfectants                          23

     2.5         Key research issues

                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium linked to                     26
           3
                routes of exposure
                J.o. Falkinham
                Environmental sample types yielding M avium                                27
      3.1
                                                                                           27
                3.1.1 M avium in water
                                                                                           30
                3.1.2 M avium in soils
                3.1.3 M avium in aerosols, ejected droplets and dust                       31
                3.104 M avium in phagocytic protozoa and amoebae                           32
                                                                                           33
                3.1.5 Other sources of M avium
                Impact of unidentified mycobacterial isolates                              33
      3.2
                                                                                            34
      3.3        Environments with high numbers of M avium
                                                                                           35
      304        Routes of exposure
                                                                                            35
                 304.1 Ingestion
                                                                                            35
                 304.2 Inhalation
                                                                                            36
                 304.3 Trauma
                                                                                            36
                 30404 Biofilms
                 Overlap of human and M avium environments                                  37
       3.5
                                                                                            37
       3.6       Key research issues
                                               Contents                                 vii

            4     Biology of waterborne pathogenic mycobacteria                     39
                  G. Cangelosi, J Clark-Curtiss, M Behr, T. Bull and T. Stinear
       4.1        Introduction
                                                                                   39
                  4.1.1 Taxonomy and terminology
                                                                                   39
                  4.1.2 Evolution and diversity of MAC
       4.2                                                                         41
                 Mycobacterial genomes
                                                                                   43
                 4.2.1 The MAA genome
                                                                                   43
                 4.2.2 The MAP genome
                                                                                   46
                 4.2.3 Genomes of other environmental mycobacteria                 47
       4.3       Bacterial physiology
                                                                                   48
                 4.3.1 The cell envelope and its role in virulence and             48
                 antimicrobial resistance
                 4.3.2 Morphotypic switches
                                                                                   48
                 4.3.3 Metabolism and catabolism
       4.4                                                                         50
                 Biology of MAC in host environments
                                                                                   51
                4.4.1 Entry and survival in host cells
                                                                                   51
                4.4.2 MAA genes involved in intracellular life
                                                                                  51
                4.4.3 MAP genes involved in intracellular life
      4.5                                                                         53
                Key research issues
                                                                                  53
                4.5.1 Diversity
                                                                                  53
                4.5.2 Molecular markers of virulence
                                                                                  54
                4.5.3 Taxonomy
                                                                                  54
                4.5.4 Evolutionary context
                                                                                  54
                4.5.5 Genomic analysis
                                                                                  54
                Acknowledgements
                                                                                  54
        5       Analytical methods for the detection of waterborne and            55
                environmental pathogenic mycobacteria
                T. Stinear, T. Ford and V Vincent
      5.1       Introduction
      5.2                                                                          55
                The analysis process
                                                                                  58
                5.2.1 Sampling
                                                                                  60
                5.2.2 Sample storage
                                                                                  61
                5.2.3 Sample preparation
                                                                                  61
                5.2.4 Detection
     5.3                                                                          63
                Key research issues
                                                                                  73




1. . . . . . . . . .____________________
Vlll
                              Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

               The Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis problem           74
       6
               and its relation to the causation of Crohn disease
               1. Hermon-Taylor and F.A.K. El-Zaatari
               Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis                       74
  6.1
               MAP infection and Johne disease in domestic livestock                 75
  6.2
                                                                                     78
  6.3          Different strains of MAP
                                                                                     79
  6.4          MAP in wildlife and in the environment
               Transmission of MAP from animals to humans                            80
  6.5
                                                                                     80
                6.5.1 In food
                                                                                     82
                6.5.2 In water supplies and aerosols
                                                                                     83
  6.6           Crohn disease
                                                                                     83
                6.6.1 Definition
                6.6.2 Epidemiology, environmental factors, and inherited              85
                susceptibility to CD
                                                                                     87
                6.6.3 The isolated case ofIceland
                                                                                     88
   6.7          MAP causing Crohn disease
                6.7.1MAP in the inflamed gut of people with Crohn disease            89
                 6.7.2 Serological recognition of MAP proteins in Crohn disease      91
                 6.7.3 Response ofCrohn disease to treatment with anti-MAP drugs     92
                 6.7.4 Pathogenic mechanisms of MAP in Crohn disease                 93
                                                                                     94
   6.8           Key research issues
                                                                                     94
                 Acknowledgements

                Disseminated infection, cervical adenitis and other MAC infections    95
           7
                c.F. von Reyn, A. Pozniak, W Haas and G. Nichols
                                                                                      95
       7.1      Disseminated MAC infection
                                                                                      95
                7.1.1 Clinical aspects.
                                                                                      96
                7.1.2 Microbiology
                                                                                      96
                7.1.3 Epidemiology and risk factors
                                                                                       98
                7.1.4 Burden of disease
                                                                                       98
                7.1.5 Prevention and treatment
                                                                                       99
       7.2      Cervical adenitis
                                                                                       99
                7.2.1 Clinical aspects
                                                                                      100
                7.2.2 Epidemiology and risk factors
                                                                                      101
                 7.2.3 Morbidity/mortality
                                                                                      101
                 7.2.4 Burden of disease
                                                                                      101
                 7.2.5 Prevention and treatment
                                                                                      102
        7.3      Tenosynovitis
                                                                                      102
        7.4      Osteomyelitis and septic arthritis
                                                                                      103
        7.5      Meningitis
                                                                                      103
        7.6      Pancreatic infection
                                        Contents                       ix

   7.7      Sarcoidosis                                            103
   7.8      Key research issues                                    103

       8   Skin, Bone and Soft Tissue Infections                  104
           MA. De Groote and P. Johnson
  8.1      Clinical aspects                                        105
           8.1.1 M marinum                                        105
           8.1.2 Rapidly Growing Mycobacteria                     107
           8.1.3 Mycobacterium avium complex                      108
           8.104 M haemophilum                                    109
           8.1.5 M ulcerans                                       110
           8.1.6 M terrae                                         110
  8.2      Overall burden of disease                              110
  8.3      Distribution                                           III
  804      Descriptive epidemiology                               112
  8.5      Risk factors                                           113
  8.6      Causality and associated microbes                      113
  8.7      Key research issues                                    114
    9      Pulmonary infection in non-HIV infected individuals   115
           MA. De Groote
  9.1      Clinical aspects                                      116
           9.1.1 Primary and secondary pathogenic pulmonary      118
           environmental mycobacterial infection
           9.1.2 Selected treatment issues                       123
           9.1.3 Selected microbiological issues                 125
 9.2       Overall burden of disease                             126
 9.3       Distribution                                          126
 904       Descriptive epidemiology                              127
 9.5       Causality and associated microbes                     128
 9.6       Risk factors                                          128
 9.7       Prevalence of asymptomatic disease                    129
 9.8       Key research issues                                   130
 10        Disease Resulting From Contaminated Equipment and     131
           Invasive Procedures
           MA. De Groote
10.1       Clinical aspects                                      132
           10.1.1 General comments                               132
           10.1.2 Specific infections                            135
           10.1.3 Selected microbial factors                     138
x                        Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

           Overall burden of disease                                    140
10.2
           Distribution                                                 141
10.3
           Descriptive epidemiology                                     141
10.4
           Risk factors                                                 141
10.5
           Causality and associated microbes                            141
10.6
           Key research issues                                          142
10.7

           Control, Treatment and Disinfection of Mycobacterium avium   143
     11
           Complex in Drinking Water
           M W LeChevallier
           Introduction                                                 143
11.1
           Removal of mycobacteria by water treatment processes         145
11.2
           11.2.1 Physical removal by coagulation and filtration        145
           11.2.2 Disinfection                                          149
           Regrowth of mycobacteria in drinking water                   160
    11.3
           11.3.1 Biodegradable organic matter                          160
            11.3.2 Impact of water contact materials                    162
           Other environmental and control factors                       164
    11.4
            11.4.1 Temperature                                          164
            11.4.2 Control of free living amoebae                       165
            Role of distribution system recontamination                 166
    11.5
            Key research issues                                          167
    11.6
            Acknowledgements                                             168

         Approaches to risk management in priority setting              169
      12
         T. Ford. J. Hermon-Taylor, G. Nichols, G. Cangelosi
         and J. Bartram
                                                                         169
    12.1 Introduction
                                                                         170
    12.2 Public health response
                                                                         173
    12.3 Management options
         12.3.1 Drinkinglbathing water                                   173
         12.3.2 Recreational water                                       174
          12.3.3 Industrial exposure                                     174
          12.3.4 Institutional exposure                                  175
          12.3.5 The high risk groups                                    176
                                                                         176
    12.4 The RACCP approach to management
                                                                         178
    12.5 Key research issues

            References                                                   179
            Index                                                        229
 Preface




 The World Health Organization's Water, Sanitation and Health Office, in
 collaboration with the US Environmental Protection Agency Office of Research
 and Development, is producing a series of expert workshops, reports and
 monographs on Emerging Pathogens in Water. This monograph was developed
 from the expert workshop entitled: Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water that was
 held in Guildford, UK between the 18 th and 20 th September 2002. The sponsors
of this workshop were the US EPA Office of Research and Development.
    A total of 20 experts from 7 different countries, including those with
expertise in medicine, clinical and water microbiology, epidemiology,
regulatory policy, public health and water engineering, examined the range of
issues associated with pathogenic mycobacteria in current and potential human-
water interfaces.
    Other workshops and publications in the series include:
    • Heterotrophic Plate-Counts and Drinking-Water Supply
    • H2 S Method for Detection of Faecal Contamination
    • Severe Outcomes from Infectious Diseases Associated with
        Recreational Water Contact
    • Respiratory Transmission of Faecally Excreted Viruses
                                      [xi]
XlI                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

      •   Toxic Cyanobacteria in Water
      •   Waterborne Zoonoses: Identification, Causes and Controls

   These are all available from the W orId Health Organization website
(www.WHO.intiwater_sanitation_healthl ) or from the International Water
Association (www.iwapublishing.com).
   Non-tuberculous pathogenic mycobacteria, including those collectively
referred to as Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) have been associated with
a variety of adverse health outcomes, including Crohn disease, cervical adenitis
and pulmonary and skin infections. The bulk of interest in MAC infection in
relation to water management revolves around the exposure of
immunocompromised individuals (in particular HIV positive populations) to
MAC in domestic water supply. The issues addressed included:
    • the state of current knowledge on MAC
    • health outcomes in high-exposure occupational groups
    • examining the postulated causal link between Mycobacterium avium
        sUb-species paratuberculosis (MAP) and Crohn disease
    • risk assessment and risk management
    • infections associated with non-tuberculous pathogenic mycobacteria
    • analytical methods for the isolation and identification of non-
        tuberculous pathogenic mycobacteria
    • environmental sources and routes of exposure
    • controls, treatments and disinfection regimes

   This monograph contains the results of the workshop deliberations largely
based on the technical materials prepared by the participants prior to the
workshops and the resultant scientific discussions. Each of the chapters in the
monograph resulted from presentations by the experts in the various sessions of
the workshop. The presentations were subsequently revised in the light of other
presentations and the debate and discussion that reflected the collective
experiences of the participants. The final monograph is the product of the
Expert Workshop, all its chapters were redrafted and peer reviewed by members
of the expert group and the editors.
   We hope that you will find the document enlightening in describing the
complex issue of non-tuberculous pathogenic mycobacteria and the role of water
as a milieu for survival and transmission of infections associated with these
organisms.
Acknowledgements




The World Health Organization wishes to express its deep gratitude to all those
whose efforts made the production of this book possible. The international
experts who attended the meeting on Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water in
Guildford, UK, in September 2002, many of whom contributed to individual
chapters in this book, reviewed drafts, and supported the editorial work,
comprised the following:

  Jamie Bartram, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland.
  Marcel Behr, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, Canada.
  Tim Bull, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, United Kingdom.
  Gerry Cangelosi, Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, USA.
  Josephine Clark-Curtiss, Washington University, Saint Louis, USA.
  Joseph Cotruvo, J. Cotruvo & Associates, Washington, DC, USA.
  Mary-Ann DeGroote, University of Colorado, Denver, USA.
  Al Dufour, US Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
  Fouade EI-Zaatari, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, USA.
  Joseph Falkinham III, Fralin Biotechnology Center, Blacksburg, Virginia,
  USA.
                                     [xiii]
xiv                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

  Tim Ford, Montana State University, Montana, USA.
  Walter Haas, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany.
  John Hermon-Taylor, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, United
      Kingdom.
      Paul Johnson, Austin and Repatriation Medical Centre, Melbourne, Australia.
      Mark LeChevallier, American Water Works Service Company, Voorhees,
      NJ, USA.
      Gordon Nichols, Health Protection Agency, London, United Kingdom.
      C.N. Paramasivan, Indian Council of Medical Research, Tuberculosis
      Research Centre, Chennai, India.
      Francoise Portaels, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerpen, Belgium.
      Anton Pozniak, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London, United
      Kingdom.
      Gareth Rees, RCPEH, University of Surrey, United Kingdom.
      James Rothel, Cellestis Limited, Carnegie, Victoria, Australia.
      Tim Stinear, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
      Veronique Vincent, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
       Fordham vonReyn, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Centre, Hanover, USA.

    We acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of all the expert group members and
 authors, and we thank the sponsor, the US Environmental Protection Agency,
 without whom this work would not have been possible.
    Finally, we would like to thank Ann Weldon, Penny Ward and Edie
 Campbell for their administrative support to the expert group meeting and for
 their editorial assistance during the preparation of this book. It has been indeed a
 cooperative effort.
Executive Summary




Mycobacteria are a large group of microorganisms that inhabit a diverse range of
natural environments: some species are capable of infecting humans and animals.
Apart from the highly significant mycobacterial pathogens, we may presume that the
majority of people in the water industry, until recently, would not be familiar with
environmental mycobacteria. Nevertheless, environmental mycobacteria are a
frequent cause of infection, and there is a growing body of evidence to show that
water is a significant vehicle for the transmission ofthese organisms.
   The importance of the Pathogenic Environmental Mycobacteria (PEM) , and
especially the Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC), was recognised with the
discovery of disseminated infection in immunocompromised people, particularly
people with HIV and AIDS. Yet there are many other forms of disease, both minor
and serious, that are caused by PEM. This book provides a comprehensive review of
PEM, the different types of disease that they are known to cause, and their
distribution in water and other parts of the natural environment. It explores the role
of water as a vehicle for the transmission of these pathogens and concludes with a
discussion of the issues surrounding the control of PEM in drinking-water and the
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
xvi                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

assessment and management of risks. The book is a valuable resource for sanitary
and clinical microbiologists, public health professionals, water resource managers,
water engineers, piped public water suppliers, regulators of water quality and
facilities managers in medical and commercial buildings.
    The history of human development and the growth of civilisation contains
frequent reference to the role of infectious disease in forging social structures and
deciding the fate of nations. Critical analysis of the historical record shows that at
least some of the major infectious diseases circulating in the world today have
existed relatively unchanged for several centuries, possibly even longer. In addition
to these readily identifiable diseases, we may assume that there would have been in
circulation a much greater number of other pathogens, causing a range of diseases
that are unrecognisable from contemporary records or that were of insufficient
virulence to be visible above the background of other social hazards.
Notwithstanding the long, stable history of a few infectious diseases, the relationship
between humans and pathogens is not static and from time-to-time new pathogens
appear and present fresh challenges for society. In a brochure that accompanies this
series of publications (Emerging Issues in Water and Infectious Disease, WHO,
2004) we are told that pathogenic microorganisms are subject to the same rules of
evolution as all other organisms. The interaction between the pathogen and its
environment leads to a modified, possibly more virulent strain of the pathogen, or to
the emergence of a previously unrecognised form of the pathogen. As new types of
pathogen emerge appropriate public health measures must be developed to control
the spread of disease. Frequently, the public health response will impact the
management of water resources, especially as drinking-water reserves and for
recreational and agricultural use. The brochure highlights four drivers of emerging
issues in water and infectious disease:

      •   New environments.
      •   New technologies.
      •   Scientific advances in water microbiology.
      •   Changes in human behaviour and vulnerability.

    In order to inform the public about these emerging issues and to provide guidance
to the water sector about the management options that are available to moderate their
effects, the WHO and USEP A have initiated a series of meetings at which leading
experts from different disciplines discuss the issues and work towards a consensus
about the risks to public health and the measures required to control their impact.
PEM have been identified as a group of microorganisms that are widespread in the
environment and which appear to be an emerging cause of waterborne disease. This
book is the final output from a meeting of experts held in Guildford, UK, in
September 2002. The meeting brought together microbiologists, water quality
                                 Executive Summary                                    XVll


experts, public health experts and epidemiologists to present and analyse our
knowledge of PEM and the particular issues surrounding their presence in water.
The fIrst drafts of the chapters were prepared from the presentations made by the
experts. Subsequently, the chapters were redrafted and reviewed by members of the
expert group, the editors, and other contributors.
    The chapters in the book have been grouped into three sections, although this is
not manifest in the contents. In chapters 2 to 5 the reader is introduced to the
biology ofPEM and is shown how this governs the ecology of the organisms. This
section also describes the particular diffIculties associated with the isolation,
enumeration and identifIcation of PEM and shows how a combination of classical
and modem analytical methods are being used by laboratories to detect the
organisms. In chapters 6 to 10 the book focuses on the range of infections caused
by PEM and the role of water in the transmission of these infections. Chapters 10
and 11 form the fInal section of the book and deal with the particular issues in
water treatment and water quality management that are presented by the
characteristics of PEM. Every chapter is concluded with a list of the key research
issues that, in the opinion of the authors, should be tackled in order to improve our
understanding of the organisms, their ecology, their pathogenicity, and the role of
water in the transmission of disease.
    We have described earlier the concept of emerging issues in water and infectious
disease and the key issues that form the theme of this series of books. Throughout
this book you will fInd many examples of how PEM have gained prominence by
exploiting the changing interface between humans and the environment, which is
embodied in the key issues listed above. Chapter 1 provides a comprehensive
summary ofPEM and introduces topics that are dealt with in depth by the authors of
later chapters. It is in this chapter that the reader will fInd the most conspicuous links
with the key issues of water and infectious disease.
    The relationship between PEM, in particular MAC, and the environment is
developed in chapters 2 and 3. It is clear from the reviews presented in these two
chapters that the ecology of PEM is complicated and poorly understood. As well as
existing as a free-living resident of many environments, PEM may also form a
symbiotic, or parasitic, relationship with certain species of amoebae and insect.
These relationships may be fundamental to the transmission and pathogenicity of
PEM. Furthermore, the unusual chemical structure and hydrophobicity of their cell
wall leads to the organisms being concentrated at the interface between water and
air; a particular issue for the dispersal of the organisms in aerosols. Another
important aspect of the ecology of PEM is illustrated by the example of cervical
lymphadenitis (chapter 7). Until recently, the principal cause of cervical
lymphadenitis in children was Mycobacterium scrofulaceum; however, several
groups of workers have reported a rapid shift in the main etiological agent of disease
from M scrofulaceum to M avium. A signifIcant feahrre of this shift is that it has
XVlll                   Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

occurred concurrently in the UK, USA and Australia, and that it coincides with a
sudden decline in the occurrence of M scrofolaceum in water. The reason for this
sudden change is not understood.
    The authors of chapter 1 note that MAC was first recognised as a problem in
people with HlV and AIDS. This theme is expanded in chapter 7, where the
appearance and spread of disseminated MAC infection is discussed in the context of
the emergence of HlV and AIDS and the vulnerability of individuals with impaired
immunity: an example of changes in human behaviour and vulnerability. For these
people, PEM in water and soil is a particular hazard, and exposure to these
environments, for example at swimming pools or even contact with some potting
composts, may give rise to a special risk of infection. The subject of changes in
human vulnerability is also tackled by some ofthe other authors.
    A common thread running through the book is the emergence of PEM as a
problem organism in water systems. There can be little doubt that MAC and other
PEM have existed in the aquatic and soil environments for a long time; in other
words, they are not a recent contaminant. Yet it is only relatively recently that their
significance for public health has been appreciated. This point can be illustrated by
reference to Buruli Ulcer (BU), a disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans, which
is described in chapter 8. The first description of disease symptoms consistent with
BU was made in 1897, but it was not until 50 years later that the etiological agent
was identified and described. Since 1980, evidence has emerged of the true extent of
the disease and it is now the third most common mycobacterial infection after TB
and leprosy. The authors of chapter 8 report the results of recent studies that suggest
a link between M ulcerans and a biting, aquatic insect. Based upon these
observations we can speculate that BU is a vector-borne disease and that water may
be an important environment for the proliferation of the vector. The authors of
chapter 8 point out that this new development offers options for water resource
management that may control the spread of the disease. In the context of the key
emerging issues in water and infectious disease, BU embodies a number of themes,
but principally it is an example of scientific advances in microbiology that have
provided the tools that were necessary to detect M ulcerans in aquatic insects.
    The possible role of water in the transmission of Crohn Disease (CD) has
stimulated a fascinating debate between microbiologists, public health
professionals, and water quality scientists, which is reviewed in chapter 6.
Currently, the link between M avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) and the
waterborne transmission of CD has not been proven, but there is a body of
epidemiological and microbiological evidence that would suggest that a link does
exist, and that further research is needed. We await with interest the resolution of
this debate. Once again, the possible role of water in the transmission of a
pernicious disease is being unravelled. However, as new information is published
                                 Executive Summary                                  XIX


the possibilities for controlling the disease through effective water quality
management strategies may become apparent.
    Several of the chapters portray PEM as an opportunistic pathogen: a pathogen
that can infect a compromised host but would not normally infect a healthy host. Yet
these are not trivial infections as chapters 7 to 10 demonstrate. Once the organism
has established an infection treatment can be very difficult, requiring the use of a
combination of drugs for an extended period of time. Relapses are not uncommon.
In some cases the treatment may involve surgical removal of the infected area.
Water plays a significant role in the infection process. In chapter 8 the authors cite
examples of people contracting PEM infections by contact with water used in a
beauty treatment salon. One patient was left with a permanent scar on her leg. There
is also evidence to suggest that body piercing may be a cause of PEM infection.
These examples show how different uses of water, brought about by changing
lifestyles, can present new challenges for public health protection, as well as
emphasising the need for water users to be mindful of the possible risks associated
with some of the more unconventional uses of water. Similarly, medical and dental
establishments are not immune from opportunistic infections with PEM.
Bronchoscopes that have been cleaned with water contaminated with PEM have
been shown to be a cause of pulmonary infection (chapter 9).
    New analytical methods are being developed all the time in all fields of
microbiology. During the past 20 years, methods that use the detection,
amplification, or sequencing of genetic material have emerged as major tools for
analysts specialising in medical and environmental microbiology. These advanced
methods have provided essential evidence to confirm PEM as a cause of some
infections and for discovering new environmental reservoirs of the pathogen (for
example, M ulcerans ). Yet the confirmation of PEM in many infections still relies
upon the classical methods for culturing the organism in the laboratory. Chapter 5
describes the state of the art methods available for the isolation and identification of
PEM, but points out that although many of the methods are accurate and precise, the
first step in diagnosis often requires the growth of the organism on selective media.
Similar limitations apply to the recovery ofPEM from environmental samples. The
chapter concludes that further work is required to improve the analytical methods
that are available to microbiologists to expedite diagnosis and improve
environmental monitoring.
    Modem, rapid methods of analysis that detect specific nucleic acid sequences in
the PEM are possible because of the major developments in our understanding of the
biology and genetics of the organisms. In chapter 4, the authors expand upon the
earlier descriptions of the ecology of MAC and other PEM and show how this can
be affected by the biology of the organisms. The description of the genetics of the
PEM provides an important insight into the many factors that control the ecology of
the organisms.
xx                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    Two factors control the presence and level ofPEM in drinking-water distribution
systems: ingress and regrowth. From our understanding of the biology and ecology
ofPEM (chapters 2,3 and 4) we may surmise that drinking-water treatment will not
eliminate PEM but, if operating satisfactorily, will significantly reduce the numbers
that may be present in the source water to a level that represents a negligible risk to
the general population. Ingress ofPEM through leaks in the distribution system, and
the regrowth of PEM in biofilms are potentially more significant events for
drinking-water quality management. These issues are addressed in chapter 11.
    The biology and ecology ofPEM render them highly resistant to chlorine and the
other chemical disinfectants used for the treatment of drinking-water. Chapters 1, 2
and 3 demonstrate that many sources of water, in particular surface water, will be
contaminated with some species of PEM. Consequently, the early stages of water
treatment - flocculation, sedimentation and filtration - are the most important
barriers to the transfer of PEM into the water distribution system. Any breach of
these treatment steps will not be remedied by chemical disinfection of the water.
Even ifPEM are removed from the source water, the potential for contamination to
occur through breaches in the pipework, either from a burst water main or during
maintenance work, is high. Once inside the network, PEM can readily integrate into
the biofilm where they become an established member of the microbial community.
Some studies carried out in drinking-water distribution systems have shown that
slow growing PEM can be found at densities greater than 4000 per cm2 in the
surface biofilm, creating a potentially high frequency and level of exposure.
    The book concludes by discussing the use of water management strategies for
controlling exposure to PEM from water systems. In chapter 12, the authors argue
that water safety plans (WSPs) can be an effective method for the control ofPEM in
water. To support their argument, the authors draw heavily upon the example of
Legionella and the procedures that have been developed to control Legionella in
water systems. WSPs are an important aspect of the 3rd edition of the WHO
Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality and the PEM are used to demonstrate how
the risk assessment and management framework of a WSP can be an effective
mechanism for the control of waterborne pathogens.
    This book provides an in-depth review of PEM as an emerging waterborne
pathogen, and examines their significance for public health and water resource
management. PEM offer many challenges to the microbiologist for the development
of improved analytical methods and monitoring procedures; to the public health
sector to determine the full extent of the disease caused by PEM, their epidemiology
and clinical management; and to the water sector, where PEM present significant
problems in treatment and control. PEM highlight how holistic approaches to the
management of water supplies may be the best, even the only option that is available
to the water sector.
 List of acronyms and abbreviations




 AFB       acid fast bacillus
 AOC       assimilable organic carbon
 BCG       Bacillus Calmette-Guerin
 BDOC      biodegradable dissolved organic carbon
 bp       base pairs
BSA       bovine serum albumin
BU        Buruli Ulcer
CCL       contaminant candidate list
CD        Crohn disease
CDC       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CF        cystic fibrosis
cfu       colony forming units
CPC      cetyl pyridinium chloride
CR       congo red
DNA      deoxyribonucleic acid
ELISAs   enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
G+C      guanine plus cytosine
GAC      granular active carbon
                              [xxi]
xxu               Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


GPL        glycopetidolipids
H&E        haematoxylin and eosin
HAART      highly active antiretroviral therapy
HACCP      Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
HPC        heterotrophic plate count
IFN-       interferon gamma
gamma
IMS        immunomagnetic separation
IS         insertion sequences
ISH        in situ hybridization
ITS        internal transcribed spacer
 JD        lohne disease
 kb        kilobases
 MAA        Mycobacterium avium subsp. avium
 MAC        Mycobacterium avium complex
 MAIS       M avium-intracelluslare-scrofulaceum
 MAP        M avium subsp. paratuberculosis
 mb         megabases
 mce        mycobacterial cell entry
  MLST      multi-locus sequence typing
  MTB       Mycobacterium turberculosis
  NTM       non-tuberculous mycobacteria
  NTU       nephlometric turbidity units
  OSHA      Occupational Safety & Health Administration
  PCR       polymerase chain reaction
  PEM        pathogenic environmental mycobacteria
  PFGE       pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
  PPD        purified protein derivatives
 PRA         PCR restriction analysis
  PVC        polyvinyl chloride
  RFLP       restriction fragment length polymorphism
  RGM        rapidly growing mycobacteria
  RNA        ribonucleic acid
  rRNA        ribosomal ribonucleic acid
  SCOTS       selective capture of transcribed sequences
  SDS         sodium dodecyl sulfate
  ssGPL       serovar-specific gylcopeptidolipids
  TB          tuberculosis
   TU         turbidity units
   USEPA       US Environmental Protection Agency
   WHO         Wodd Health Organization
   ZN          Ziehl-Neelsen
1
Introduction
G. Nichols, T. Ford, J. Bartram, A. Dufour and
F. Portaels




1.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MYCOBACTERIA
Environmental mycobacteria can be found in diverse environments and most
appear to exhibit a saprophytic lifestyle. However, some have the ability to
infect animals, birds and humans, and have evolved mechanisms by which they
can invade and grow within host cells. Because the number of organisms shed
back into the environment from infected animals can be relatively small, and
heavy and widespread colonization of some environments occurs, it remains
rather unclear what role animal/human infection plays in the life-cycle of many
of these organisms.
    Because these organisms are widespread in the environment, and there is
little evidence that person-to-person transmission is common, there is an
implicit assumption that environmental mycobacterial infections derive from
water, food, the environment or contact with animals. There is evidence to
support this assumption in many cases, although the source of infection in most
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
2                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

remains unclear. A variety of mycobacterial species causing human disease have
been linked to contaminated water (Table 1.1). However, some of these links
can result from diagnostic uncertainty associated with differentiating
contamination of patients or their specimens from human disease caused by
environmental mycobacteria; a topic that is dealt with in later chapters.
   Members of the MAC are responsible for the majority ofnon-M tuberculosis
mycobacteria infections in developed countries (Horsburgh 1996). The main
presentations of MAC are lymphadenitis in children, respiratory infection in the
elderly, respiratory, intestinal and disseminated disease in HIV -positive people
and infections in people with other immunocompromising conditions. In areas
of developing countries where M ulcerans is endemic, ulcerative disease can
cause severe disability (refer to Chapter 8).


1.2 NOMENCLATURE AND TYPING
As methods for differentiating strains improve, the need to accurately type and
name organisms becomes important for our understanding of the disease
epidemiology. With environmental mycobacteria this is no less important. Much
of the literature in the last twenty years contains terms like MAC and MAIS for
a group of organisms with different properties and virulence characteristics.
MAC includes M intracellulare, M avium and its subspecies MAA, MAP and
M avium subspecies sylvaticum. Because MAP is very slow growing, fastidious
and requires special media for its isolation, the term MAC is usually used to
indicate members of the complex other than MAP, although strictly speaking
MAP is a member. M lepraemurium is related to M avium and causes a leprosy
like disease in mice, rats and cats (Rojas-Espinosa & Lovik 2001). Like MAP it
is difficult to cultivate and very slow growing.
    The MAIS complex includes M scrofulaceum, M avium and
M intracellulare, although MAIS is a less commonly used term. The term
M avium-intracellulare is for most purposes identical to MAC. One of the
difficulties of using this nomenclature is that differences in the individual
species have not been highlighted and therefore the epidemiology is less clear.
There is support for strains from humans and pigs being reclassified as
M avium subspecies hominissuis because of their differences from bird strains,
and this reclassification may be useful in revising our understanding of the
epidemiology of this group of diseases (Mijs et al. 2002). Another example
where typing can be useful is with MAP. There are typing differences between
the organisms found in sheep and cattle and a lack of clarity about the zoonotic
origin of organisms derived from humans.
 Table 1.1 Evidence of pathogenic Mycobacterium species in water identified by selected references

                                              Drinking                               Hospilal   Hot
                    Natural                                                                               Recrea-                   Indus-   Damp
                                 Drinking     water                    Hospilal      equip-
 S   es                                                                                         water     donal                     trial    build-
                    waters       water        biofilm       Sewa e     water                                                                          Mine
                                                                                     ment        stems    water      In"ections     water
 Mbohemicum         Tmkkoet                                                                                                                  in2S     water
                    al (2001)
Mchelonae
subsp abscessus                                                                                                      Z1nbanget
Mfortuitum          Jinetal                                                                                          al (2002)
                                                            Jinetal
                    (1984)                                  (1984)
Mgenavense                      Ristolaet                             Hillebrand-
                                at. (1999)                            Havetkort
                                                                      etal (I 999)
M imnumogenum
                                                                                                                                   Wallace
                                                                                                                                   eta!.
M inJracellulare                             Falkinham                                                                             (2002)
                                                                                                         Saito &
                                             eta!. (2001)
                                                                                                         Tsuka-
                                                                                                         mum
Mkansasii                                                                                                (1976)
                                Kaustova                              Wright eta!
                                etal                                                                                Domergue       Chobot
                                                                      (1985)                                        etal. (2001)
                                (1981)                                                                                             eta!.
Mmalmoense         Portaelset                                                                                                      (1997)
Table 1.1 Evidence of pathogenic Mycobacterium species in water identified by selected references

                                                                                Hospital      Hot           Recrea-                  Indus-   Damp
                                         Drinking                                                                                    trial    build-     Mine
                                         water                 Hospital         equip-        water         tional
              Natural       Drinking                                                                                                 water    inf!S      water
                                                    Sewlll!e   water            ment          SYstems       water       Iniections
Spel!ies      waters        water        biotilm
              al. (1995)




                                                                                                                                                         Slosarek
Mmarinum                                                                                                                                                 etal.
                                                                                                                                                         (1994)
                                                                                                            Dailloux    Zenoneet              Huth.men
               Tuflley &    Jinetal.     Schu1ze-              Lockwood
M terrae                                                                                                    eta/.       al.(1999)             etal.
               Holbeche     (1984)       Robbecke              etal. (1989)
                                                                                                            (1980)                            (2001)
               (1980)                    etal.
                                         (1992)
 M tusciae                  Tortoliet
                            a/. (1999)
                                                                Wright et aI.    Bennettet     Wrightet      Slosarek
 Mxenopi       Torl<ko et   Sniadack
                                                                (1985)           a/. (1994)    al. (1985)    eta/.
               al. (2000)   etal.
                                                                                                             (1994)
                            (1993)
                                   Introduction                                   5



1.3 UNDERSTANDING THE DISEASE
Primary M avium infections, including non-tuberculous lymphadenitis
(inflammation/swelling of the lymph nodes), can occur in children, although
infection is more common in patients with pre-existing pulmonary disease. Most
diagnosed infections occur in people who are severely immunocompromised.
Infections can affect the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts and may produce
a generalized infection. MAA is the most frequent mycobacterial subspecies
isolated from patients with AIDS and often causes serious disseminated disease:
M intracellulare is more common in immunocompetent people (Guthertz et al.
1989).


1.3.1 The epidemiology of environmental mycobacteria
As a result of the dramatic increase in HIV-associated MAC infection in
developed countries, MAC has received more attention than many other
environmental mycobacteria. Disease can result from infection by one or more
strains of different species (Conville et al. 1989), serotypes (Dawson 1990) or
genotypes (Arbeit et al. 1993; Mazurek et al. 1997) of MAC, sometimes in
combination witha mycobacterium other than MAC (Levy-Frebault et al. 1987;
Fa1kinham 1996), including MTB (Epstein et al. 1997; Raju & Schluger 2000).
HIV -positive patients frequently have a variety of concurrent infections, such as
respiratory co-infection with Pneumocystis carinii (Raju & Schluger 2000). The
observation that higher rates of disseminated MAC in AIDS patients occur in
developed rather than developing countries is probably due to differences in
both exposure and immunity (von Reyn et al. 1996) and high rates of infection
withMTB.
   Mycobacterial infections linked to contaminated hospital water have been
recognized for many years (Wallace et al. 1998), and MAC has been isolated
from hospital waters (Graham et al. 1988), particularly hot water systems (du
Moulin et al. 1988). However, diagnostic difficulties can result from
contamination of patients or their specimens by the use of non-sterile water
during sample processing (Stine et al. 1987; Graham et al. 1988). It is likely that
hospital waters represent a source of infection for immunocompromised patients
(du Moulin et al. 1988; Peters et al. 1995). du Moulin et al. (1988) and Gurtler
(1994) have suggested that contaminated showers may be a source of infection
for HIV patients, although, in contrast, a case-control study of the risk factors
for MAC in HIV-positive patients found that showering was protective
(Horsburgh et al. 1994). A study of mycobacteria in swimming pool water in
Finland found no MAC among the many mycobacteria isolated (livanainen et
6                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

al. 1999c), but MAC were recovered from pools and spas in the Netherlands
(Havelaar et al. 1985). MAC infections have also been linked to hot tub use
(Embil et al. 1997; Mangione et al. 2001), and there is some evidence that use
of water transported over long distances represents an increased risk for
infection (du Moulin et al. 1985).
    A range of environmental mycobacteria have been recovered from
bronchoscopes, bronchoscopy specimens (Dawson et al. 1982; Stine et al. 1987)
and other clinical specimens from patients whose infections are related to the
use of bronchoscopes. Mycobacteria have also been isolated during pseudo-
epidemics where contaminated bronchoscope washers have been implicated as
the source of infection (Gubler et al. 1992; Sniadack et al. 1993; Maloney et at.
1994; Wallace et al. 1998; Kressel & Kidd 2001; see also Chapter 10).
   A prospective cohort study of AIDS patients in developed and developing
countries found patient rates of disseminated MAC were 10.5-21.6% in New
Hampshire, Boston and Finland compared to 2.4-2.6% in Trinidad and Kenya
(p < 0.001) (von Reyn et al. 1996a). PPD skin test reactions greater than or
equal to 5 mm were present in 20% of patients from Kenya compared to 1% at
other sites (p < 0.001). Among patients from the United States and Finland,
multiple logistic regression indicated that occupational exposure to soil and
water was associated with a decreased risk of disseminated MAC; whereas low
CD4 count, swimming in an indoor pool, history of bronchoscopy, regular
consumption of raw or partially cooked fish/shellfish and treatment with
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor were associated with an increased risk of
disseminated MAC (von Reyn et at. 1996).
   MAC have been isolated from a variety of supermarket foods (Argueta et al.
2000), and the apparent similarity between some food and clinical isolates
suggests that food may be an important source of infection (Yoder et al. 1999).
MAC isolates can be relatively resistant to heating and will survive
pasteurization if present in sufficient numbers in raw milk (Grant et al. 1996).
Not surprisingly, MAC have been recovered from raw and pasteurized milk
(Hosty & McDurmont 1975). As part of an epidemiological study of patients
with MAC and AIDS in San Francisco, food samples from the houses of
patients were cultured for MAC. The organism was recovered from only 1 of
397 food samples, suggesting that this was not the principal route of
transmission (Yajko et al. 1995). A significant association has been found
between MAC infection in HIV -positive people and the consumption of hard
cheese (Horsburgh et al. 1994). MAC have also been recovered from cigarettes
(Eaton et at. 1995), and it has been suggested that this may contribute to MAC
disease in smokers (Falkinham 1996). There is also some evidence that MAC
infections are more common in people such as miners and farmers who are
exposed to dust (Falkinham 1996).
                                 Introduction                                 7


1.3.2 Risk factors
People throughout the world are exposed to environmental mycobacteria.
However, substantial differences in exposure occur at different ages, as
measured by skin tests, and in different geographical regions. The overall
picture suggests greater exposures in developing countries. While exposure to
environmental mycobacteria may confer some resistance to infection with
M tuberculosis, it also appears to reduce the effectiveness of the BCG vaccine
in protecting against M tuberculosis. The links between HIV and TB within the
developing world in particular make it important to determine whether
environmental mycobacteria are contributing indirectly to the burden of disease
associated with the HIV pandemic. In the developed world, MAC disease has
been a significant contributor to the morbidity and mortality associated with
HIV. However, since the introduction of HAART to control HIV replication,
MAC disease has become less of a clinical problem in these patients.


1.4 PATHOGENIC MYCOBACTERIA IN WATER
In 1997, Hunter reported that about eight species of mycobacteria had been
associated with waterborne transmission ofhurnan disease (Hunter 1997). These
species included M avium complex, M fortuitum, M gordonae, M marinum,
M scrofulaceum, M terrae, M ulcerans, and M xenopi. Today the list
continues to grow, with the possible addition of M chelonae, M immunogenum,
M abscessus, M kansasii, M ulcerans, M szulgai, M simiae, M palstre and
MAP. There has been an increase in the number of potentially pathogenic
mycobacterial species whose transmission route is associated with water (Table
1.1). This, in part, is due to industrial and institutional exposures that have
resulted in respiratory infections that have previously been misdiagnosed. In
some cases, the causative agents had yet to be described, e.g. M immunogenum
in metal-working fluids (Shelton et al. 1999). No doubt further species will
emerge as water-related infections as both our epidemiological and monitoring
tools continue to improve.


1.4.1 Water supply
Water remains an important potential source of human exposure to
environmental mycobacteria. Organisms such as MAP, although difficult to
recover from environmental samples, are excreted in large numbers in the faeces
of infected animals and are likely to be present in source waters that are
abstracted for drinking-water.
8                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

   Some species, such as M kansas ii, can colonize cold water distribution
systems whilst M xenopi and M avium are more commonly associated with hot
water systems. In contrast, M marinum in swimming pools or aquaria can cause
infection of skin abrasions. Contamination of liquids that are injected can cause
abscesses (M chefonae, M fortuitum), and other iatrogenic infections are linked
to contaminated endoscope washers and renal dialysis fluid.
   The difficulty with investigating the waterborne transmission of
mycobacteria is firstly that the infections are generally sporadic (there are some
outbreaks), secondly there are a variety of sources of exposure other than water,
and thirdly that the typing schemes that are routinely available are not
sufficiently discriminating to confidently identify whether isolates from the
environment are the same as those from associated patients.


1.4.2 Recently reported cases of waterborne mycobacterial
      disease
Table 1.2 lists a sample of recently reported cases of environmental
mycobacterial diseases. It is important to remember that the vast burden of
Buruli ulcer (caused by M ulcerans) in tropical countries is not reflected in this
table. An association between water exposure and Buruli ulcer in endemic areas
is suspected, but the evidence is inconclusive (refer to Chapter 8). In fact, a
recent study suggests that the disease may be at least partially vectorborne,
transmitted by an aquatic insect (Marsollier et aZ. 2002).
   For MAP, the connection with CD is controversial (refer to Chapter 6, the
article by Sechi et af. 2001 and response by Roholl et af. 2002). At present,
there would appear to be no epidemiological studies linking MAP in water with
human disease. From a public health stand point this is a much-needed area of
research/clarification.


1.5 GLOBAL BURDEN OF DISEASE
According to the World Health Report for 2002 (WHO 2002), mortality due to
infectious diseases accounts for 19.3% (10932000 of 56554000) of total
deaths. In terms of the burden of disease, as measured in DALY s, the
contribution from infectious diseases is 24.5% (359377 000 of 1 467257000)
with TB, HIV/AIDS and malaria responsible for nearly half of this burden
(WHO 2002).
                                      Introduction                                         9

Table 1.2 Waterborne outbreaks of disease caused by environmental mycobacteria, or
where water is strongly implicated in transmission

 Organism       Disease                Source                Nos. infected    Reference
 MAC            Pulmonary disease      Hot tub               Familyof5        Mangioneet
                                                                              al.2001
 MAC            Pulmonary disease      Hot tub               Familyof5        Embiletal.
                                                                              1997
 MAC            Cutaneous infection    Circulating bath      3                Sugitaetal.
                                       water                                  2000
 MAC            Hypersensitivity       Hot tub               2 case studies   Rickmanet
                pneumonitis                                                   al.2002
 Mfortuitum     Funmculosis            Whirlpool             110              Winthropet
                                       footbaths at a nail                    al. 2002
                                       salon
 Mfortuitum     Respiratory tract      Hospital ice          19               Labombardi
                colonization           machine                                etal.2002
 Mfortuitum     Respiratory tract      Hospital ice          47               Gebo etal.
                colonization           machine                                2002
 M chelonae     Pseudo-outbreak        Contaminated                           Kressel&
                                       endoscopy                              Kidd2001
                                       washer
 M chelonae     Cutaneous              Tap water             34               Meyers et al.
                abscesses              contaminated                           2002
                                       instruments in
                                       liposuction
 M              Hypersensitivity       Metal removal         Several case     Shelton et al.
 immunogenum    pneumonitis            fluids                studies          1999
 M abscessus    Sporotrichoid          Public bath           2 case studies   Leeetal.
                dermatosis                                                    2000a
 M marinum      Cutaneous infection    Aquarium              3 case studies   Dorronsoro
                                       management                             etal.1997
 M marinum      Ulcerated nodule       Aquarium              14 month old     Speight &
                                                             girl             Williams
                                                                              1997
 M.kansasii     Cellulitis             Swimming at a         1 immuno-        Hsuetal.
                                       beach                 compromised      2002
                                                             patient
 M ulcerans     Ulcerative disease     Irrigation waters     29               Rossetal.
                                                                              1997
 M szulgai      Keratitis              Intraoperative        5                Holmeset
                                       contamination                          al. 2002
                                       from ice water
 Mpalstre       Cervical               Potential for         1 child +        Torkkoetal.
                lymphadenitis          water exposure        veterinary and   2002
                                                             natural water
                                                             isolates
10                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    In the USEPA's Mycobacteria: Drinking-water fact sheet (EPA, 2002), the
CDC estimates that 1.8 out of 100 000 individuals are infected by non-AIDS
related mycobacterial diseases each year in the USA. The burden within the
American AIDS population has been as high as 50% (primarily MAC)
(Horsburgh 1991), although antiretroviral therapy has reduced this rate in recent
years (Horsburgh et al. 2001). Two and a half million people are estimated to be
living with HIV in industrial countries (United States, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, Japan, and Western and Eastern Europe), most of who have or will
have access to antiretroviral therapy. In developing countries, where HIV/AIDS
prevalence can exceed 30% in the adult population (e.g. Botswana, Lesotho,
Swaziland and Zimbabwe) (AIDS 2002), access to antiretroviral therapy can be
extremely limited. In fact, the AIDS 2002 Barcelona report suggests that a total
of only 158 168 people have received or are receiving antiretroviral therapy in
"low and middle income" countries (AIDS 2002). However, the burden of
mycobacterial diseases may not be as high as in developed countries, at least for
MAC-related infections. This is thought to be due, in part, to the relatively short
survival times of people after conversion to AIDS (Maartens 2002).
    Based on CDC estimates for the USA, the global burden of non-AIDS related
mycobacterial diseases would exceed 110 000 per year. However, applying
American infection rates to other countries may be very unrealistic, particularly
where nutritional and other indicators of health status suggest high susceptibility
to disease. Of particular note are the numerous endemic areas for Buruli ulcer
(at least 32 countries) caused by M ulcerans. Although considered the third
most common mycobacterial infection of humans after TB and leprosy, the
actual burden of this disease is unknown (http://www.who.intlgtb-burulil).
Potential transmission by an insect vector raises specific issues related to public
health and the potential to manage the disease (refer to Chapter 8).
   At the end of 2001 over 40 million adults and children were reported to be
living with HIV/AIDS: over 71 % in sub-Saharan Africa. Although at present,
rates of infection with MAC within the HIV/AIDS population in developing
countries may be lower than in developed countries, any improvement in
longevity of AIDS sufferers may place them at greater risk from these
opportunistic infections.
   People in different parts of the world appear to be exposed to MAC and other
environmental mycobacteria in different ways (von Reyn et al. 1993, 1996).
Evidence of exposure in Africa is based on skin tests (von Reyn et al. 1993,
1996; Fine et al. 2001) and INFy responsiveness to MAC PPD using whole
blood (Black et al. 2001). The evidence suggests that people in Malawi are
commonly exposed to environmental mycobacteria. The growing evidence that
environmental mycobacterial exposure reduces the ability of people to develop
an effective immune response to TB following BCG vaccination means that
                                   Introduction                                   11

protection programmes may be influenced by exposure. This has clear public
health implications in determining the effectiveness of BCG vaccination
programmes (Black et al. 2001; Fine et al. 2001). It remains unclear whether
differences in such immunological tests are a good measure of exposure to
MAC or represent the extent of sub-clinical disease.
   Estimating the amount of infection and disease associated with
environmental mycobacteria is both difficult and inherently inaccurate. This is
true even in HIV where disease caused by MAC can affect a significant
proportion of the population. The extent of MAC contamination of the
environment suggests that people are commonly exposed to this and other
environmental mycobacteria but do not necessarily develop an immune response
following such exposures. The substantial regional variation in reported
infections with different environmental mycobacteria makes global
generalization problematic.


1.5.1 Crohn disease and Johne disease
The causes of CD have been the subject of much microbiological and
epidemiological interest over the last 30 years. There is some microbiological
and clinical data that suggests that MAP is involved with the pathology of this
disease, and possibly even its causation. One reason MAP has attracted interest
is its role in JD in herbivores, and the relative similarity of the pathology of the
two conditions. However, CD appears to have a genetic component and
causation may have multiple factors. The isolation of MAP from pasteurized
cows' milk has lead to concerns that people may be exposed to this organism
through the food chain. Also, as many agricultural animals excrete large
numbers of MAP in their faeces, it is reasonable to assume that source waters
for drinking-water supplies may be contaminated with this organism. So far,
MAP has not been isolated from drinking-water in England, although molecular
studies are beginning to indicate the potential presence of MAP in surface
waters (Chapter 6). There are technical difficulties in isolation from both
clinical and environmental samples that make confirmation of the causative role
of MAP in CD and the assessment of environmental exposure difficult. It is
likely that water will prove to be one of a number of sources from which people
are exposed to MAP. While there is little current evidence that improving
drinking-water treatment will have any impact on the incidence of CD, water
companies and utilities should consider whether any action is required to adopt
a more precautionary approach. A detailed discussion of the links between MAP
and CD is included in Chapter 6.
12                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


1.6 CONTROL MEASURES
The preceding sections show that there is growing evidence that people are
acquiring mycobacterial infections from organisms present in water, food and
the environment. However, exposure to these organisms without the
development of overt symptoms, but with the development of an effective
immune response, is relatively common. Therefore, should we be trying to
reduce or increase people's exposure in order to reduce the risks of infection?
    There are clear winners and losers in this immunological conflict. People
who are at a vulnerable stage of development (in particular children and the
elderly) or are immunocompromised (HIV), and are immunologically naive to
the particular environmental mycobacteria, may succumb to infection if
exposed. In the developed world, infection with environmental mycobacteria is
sufficiently uncommon to make prevention through mass immunization an
unattractive solution. We are in a position in which the majority of people must
be relatively resistant to most environmental mycobacteria, given their ubiquity
in the environment, and further reduction in environmental exposure is unlikely
to significantly affect risk. There is, however, some rationale for reducing
individual exposures to some potential sources, such as whirlpool baths and
showers that might represent a significant risk of infection. For particular "at
risk" populations (e.g. HIV -positive individuals) there is practical risk advice
for reducing the chances of exposure to MAC.


1.7 GENOMIC AND EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVES
Basic information on the characteristics of mycobacterial genomes has been
important in understanding their biology, classification and taxonomy for many
years (Imaeda et al. 1982; Bercovier et at. 1986; McFadden et at. 1987b;
Antoine     et al. 1988). The recent projects to sequence a number of
Mycobacterium species (Table 1.3) have resulted in an expanding dataset that
can be used for comparative genomics (Behr et at. 1999; Brosch et at. 2000,
2001; Cole, 2002a; Gordon et al. 2002; Schoolnik 2002), vaccine and drug
candidate selection (Cockle et al. 2002; Cole 2002b) and pathogenic and
evolutionary genetics (Brosch et al. 2001; Fitzgerald & Musser 2001). There is
extensive gene loss in the strictly parasitic mycobacterial species (e.g.
M tuberculosis, M leprae) (Brosch et al. 2001) and IS may be responsible for
these losses (Ho et al. 2000).
                                        Introduction                                                13

Table 1.3 Mycobacterium genome sequencing projects

 O!ganism         Genome size/characteristics         Institution s~uencing genome
 M avium104       The genome is about 5.48 mb         The genome sequence is nearing
                  long and has a G+C content of       completion at the Institute for Genomic
                  68.5%                               Research
 M bovis          The genome is 4 345 492 bp          The Sanger Institute with the Unite de
 AF2122!97        long, with a G+C content of         Genetique Moleculaire Bacterienne,
                  65.63%.                             Institut Pasteur, and the Veteriruny
                                                      Laboratories Agency. Funded by Beowulf
                                                      Genomics and the Ministry ofAgriculture
                                                      Fisheries and Food.
 M leprae         The complete sequence is 3 268      The Sanger Institute with the Unite de
                  203 bp in length with a G+C         Genetique Moleculaire Bacterienne,
                  contentof57.8%. There are           Institut Pasteur. Funded by the New Yolk
                  1604 protein-coding genes and       Community Trust.
                  1116 pseudogenes.
 Mmarinum         The genome is approximately         The Sanger Institute with the University of
                  6.589 Mb with a G+C content of      Washington, Seattle; the Unite de
                  around 65%. At present there are    Genetique Moleculaire Bacterienne,
                  138601 reads totalling 59.714       Institut Pasteur; Monash University and
                  Mb and giving a theoretical         Monash Medical Centre, Australia; the
                  coverage of99.99% ofthe             Department ofMicrobiology, University
                  genome. At present, there are 88    of Tennessee, Knoxville. Funded by
                  contigs> 1kb (65 contigs > 2kb).    BeowuIfGenomics.
 M microti        A minimal set of50 bacterial
 OV254            artificial chromosome clones that
                  covers almost all ofthe genome
                  ofM microti OV254
 M paratuber-     The genome sequencing is now        University ofMinnesota funded by the US
 culosisKlO       complete, and the annotation is     Department ofAgriculture - Agricultural
                  in progress. The genome is a        Research Senrice.
                  single circular chromosome 4
                  830 869 bp in length, with
                  69.30010 G+C content, and
                  contains over 4000 open reading
                  frames.
 Msmegmatis                                           The Institute for Genomic Research
 MC2155                                               funded by National Institute ofAllergy
                                                      and I.nfuctious Disease.
 M tuberculosis   The sequence is 4 411 529 bp        The Sanger Institute with clones supplied
 H37Rv            long with an overall G+C            by the Unite de Genetique Moleculaire
                  content of65.60/0, and with 3924    Bacrenenne, Institut Pasteur. Funded by
                  predicted protein coding genes.     the Wellcome Trust
                  (Coleetal.1998)
 M.tuberculosis                                       National Center for Biotechnology
 CDC 1551                                             Infunnation, National Institute ofHealth,
                                                      Bethesda, Maryland, USA
14                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


1.8 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
What, then, are the important areas where research needs to be targeted in order
to protect public health in the longer term? Given the apparent associations
between exposure to environmental mycobacteria and lack of responsiveness to
BeG vaccination there needs to be an approach to the development of an
improved TB vaccine, preferably one that offers protection against the important
environmental mycobacteria as well as greater protection against TB.
     There is a limited understanding of the social, environmental and personal
 risk factors responsible for initiating disease caused by most of the
 environmental mycobacteria and this is aggravated by limited use of typing and
 environmental testing in investigating individual cases of infection. Greater
 effort needs to be put into sensitive typing methods and their use in elucidating
 the epidemiology of these diseases. Sequencing the genomes of further
 environmental mycobacteria will undoubtedly benefit our long-term
 understanding of these organisms.
     The challenge of the next decade will be to convert our improved knowledge
  of the organism, immunology, disease and risk factors into a strategy to reduce
  the morbidity and mortality caused by these organisms that is applicable
  worldwide. This will require targeted responses to key individual mycobacterial
  pathogens such as M ulcerans and coordination of these responses with WHO
  Programmes concerned with TB.
 2
 Natural ecology and survival in
 water of mycobacteria of potential
 public health significance

 J. O. F alkinham, G. Nichols, J. Bartram, A. Dufour
 and F. Portaels




Mycobacteria can be recovered from a wide variety of environmental niches and
MAC has been recovered from both fresh water (ponds, lakes, rivers, bogs and
swamps), brackish, sea water and wastewater (Martin et al. 1987; Falkinham
1996; Torkko et al. 2000,2001), sometimes in high numbers (Kirschner et al.
1999). MAC has been recovered from drinking-water systems before and after
treatment, from the distribution system and from raw source waters (Falkinham
et al. 2001). Mycobacterial numbers were higher in the distribution system
samples (average 25 ODD-fold) than in those collected just after treatment,
suggesting that they grow in distribution. The increase in mycobacterial
numbers correlated with AOC and biodegradable organic carbon levels. MAC
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, 1. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: 1 84339059 O. Published by 1WA Publishing, London, UK.
16                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

are relatively resistant to chlorine, mono chloramine, chlorine dioxide and ozone
(Taylor et al. 2000). Soil is also a significant reservoir. Environmental growth of
mycobacteria may be enhanced in low pH soils (Iivanainen et al. 1999a).
Mycobacterial contamination, including MAC, has been demonstrated in
mouldy buildings (Huttunen et al. 2000).


2.1     THE ECOLOGY OF ENVIRONMENTAL
        MYCOBACTERIA
2.1.1 Protozoa, helminths and insects
Some environmental mycobacteria have been shown to grow within amoebae
(Cirillo et al. 1997; Steinert et al. 1998; Miltner & Bermudez 2000; Skriwan et al.
2002) and it is suggested that this may provide a haven when environmental
conditions deteriorate (Steinert et al. 1998; Miltner & Bermudez 2000). Strahl et
al. (2001) have shown that environmental mycobacteria can be phagocytised and
grow within the ciliate Tetrahymena. This association with amoebae and ciliates
may enhance entry, growth and virulence (Cirillo et al. 1997). An epizootic of
M avium in flamingos was coincident with an algal bloom in the water (Kock et
al. 1999). It also provides a parasitic cycle within the environment that may partly
explain the opportunistic pathogenicity of human infection.
    While environmental transmission within amoebae is a possibility, it remains
unclear whether amoebae, or any other protozoa, playa role in the pathogenesis
or epidemiology of any mycobacterial diseases. In addition, the demonstration
of M ulcerans in the salivary glands of aquatic insects (Portaels et al. 1999;
Marsollier et al. 2002) and the demonstration of MAP in trichostrongylid
nematode larvae (Lloyd et al. 2001;· Whittington et al. 2001) and earthworms
(Fischer et al. 2003) suggest that the ecology of many environmental
mycobacteria may be considerably more complicated than we currently
appreciate. Moreover, the burden of intestinal helminths in people infected with
mycobacteria may affect the course of disease through stimulation of the host
Th2 response (Diniz et al. 2001).


2.1.2 Infections in birds and animals
In contrast to M avium infection in wild and domestic birds, M avium infection
in mammals occurs only sporadically and is rarely transmissible (Thorel et al.
2001). Infection is usually chronic and generalized disease is uncommon, but
disseminated disease has been reported in captive hoofed animals and
immunosuppressed dogs and cats. The maJonty of M avium and
M intracellulare infections in livestock are detected at slaughter and lesions are
                     Natural ecology and survival in water                   17

mostly restricted to lymph nodes close to the alimentary tract. The zoonotic
potential of MAC infections is poorly understood.
   MAC causes infections in a wide range of animals including water buffalo
(Freitas et al. 2001), cattle (BolIo et al. 1998), pigs (Morse & Hird 1984;
O'Grady et al. 2000; Pavlik et al. 2000; Ramasoota et al. 2001), deer (Robinson
et al. 1989; Fawcett et al. 1995; Hunter 1996; O'Grady et at. 2000) and horses
(Sills et al. 1990; Helie & Higgins 1996; Leifsson et al. 1997). MAC causes
infections in cats (Kaufman et al. 1995) and dogs (Shackelford & Reed 1989;
Miller et al. 1995; Hom et al. 2000), armadillos (Dhople et al. 1992) and
cynomolgus and rhesus macaques (Fleischman et al. 1982; Bellinger & Bullock
1988; Goodwin et at. 1988). MAC disease is more common in farmers
(Falkinham 1996) possibly as a result of contact with animals or their products.
   M avium is a significant cause of disease in endangered marsupial species
held in captivity (Mann et al. 1982; Schoon et al. 1993; Montali et al. 1998;
BuddIe & Young 2000). Experimental infections in ferrets indicate that M bovis
is more pathogenic than M avium (Cross et al. 2000).
   Avian mycobacteriosis affects companion, captive exotic, wild and domestic
birds and is most commonly caused by M avium and M genavense. Lesions are
commonly found in the liver and gastrointestinal tract, but can affect other
organs (Tell et al. 2001). MAC causes infections in chickens (Odiawo &
Mukurira 1988), white cameaux pigeons (Columbia livia) (Pond & Rush 1981),
commercial emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) (Shane et al. 1993) and farmed
rheas (Rhea americana) (Sanford et al. 1994).
   MAC infections in birds appear not to be the source of most human
infections (Martin & Schimmel 2000; Pavlik et al. 2000a), although MAC
lymphadenitis was reported in two children who lived in close proximity to a
pigeon loft (Cumberworth & Robinson 1995).


2.1.3 Infections in fish
Mycobacteria can cause disease in fish (Astrofsky et al. 2000; Heckert et al.
2001). A prospective cohort study of the rate of disseminated infection due to
NTM (predominantly MAC) among Finnish AIDS patients found urban
residence (p = 0.04) and eating raw fish (p = 0.04) as independent risk factors
(Ristola et at. 1999). A study of MAC infection in AIDS patients in developed
and developing countries found that among American and Finnish patients
occupational exposure to soil and water was protective; whereas, swimming in
an indoor pool and regular consumption of raw or partially cooked fish/shellfish
were associated with an increased risk of disseminated MAC (Fordham et al.
1996c).
18                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


2.2 PHYSIOLOGIC CHARACTERISTICS OF M. A VIUM
    RELEVANT TO ITS ECOLOGY AND DISTRIBUTION
The physiology of M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria
determines their presence and number in different environmental habitats.
Although M avium is found in waters and soils throughout the world (including
North America, Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia) (von Reyn et al. 1993), the
sites from which it is isolated in highest numbers point to those physiological
characteristics that are determinants of its ecology.


2.2.1 Physiologic characteristics of M. avium that are
       determinants of its ecology
2.2.1.1 Growth characteristics
M avium is a member of the slow-growing mycobacteria. Generation times in
rich laboratory medium are usually one day. Slow growth does not reflect a
slow metabolism. Rather, slow growth is a consequence of the presence of a
single rRNA gene cluster (Bercovier et al. 1986), the energy requirements of
synthesis of long chain fatty acids (C 60 -C SO ), lipids and waxes (Brennan &
Nikaido 1995), and the impermeability of the lipid-rich cell wall (Rastogi et al.
1981; Brennan & Nikaido 1995). Although slow growth has drawbacks, slow
growth also means that M avium dies relatively slowly. As a consequence,
M avium can survive starvation and antimicrobial and disinfectant exposure. In
fact, M avium may be able to induce protective responses that can act before
irreversible processes involving cell division occur.
    One contributor to slow growth of M avium and other mycobacteria is the
impermeable cell wall (Brennan & Nikaido 1995). However, impermeability
also results in the resistance of M avium to antibiotics (Rastogi et al. 1981),
heavy metals (Falkinham et al. 1984; Miyamoto et al. 2000) and disinfectants
(Safranek et al. 1987; Pelletier et al. 1988; Best et al. 1990; Taylor et al. 2000).
Resistance to ozone and chlorine-based disinfectants (Taylor et al. 2000) is
undoubtedly one reason why M avium, M intracellulare and other
mycobacteria grow and persist in drinking-water distribution systems (Covert et
al. 1999; Falkinham et al. 2001). Heavy metal resistance may permit M avium
and M intracellulare to populate habitats unavailable to metal-sensitive
microorganisms; for example, heavy metal resistance may allow M avium and
M intracellulare to attach to metal surfaces and serve as biofilm pioneers.
Furthermore, high numbers of M avium are associated with high concentrations
of zinc (Kirschner et al. 1992) suggesting that galvanized (i.e. Zn-coated) pipe
surfaces might be a preferred habitat.
                      Natural ecology and survival in water                     19

2.2.1.2 M avium hydrophobicity
The presence of fatty acids, lipids and waxes in the cell wall of M avium and
other mycobacteria is responsible in part for the extreme hydrophobicity of the
cells. Mycobacteria are the most hydrophobic of bacteria (van Oss et al. 1975).
The high hydrophobicity leads to adsorption to rising air bubbles in water and
their enrichment in ejected droplets, their preference to attach to surfaces (e.g.
pipes), and to phagocytosis by macrophages (van Oss et al. 1975) and protozoa
(Strahl et al. 2001). High hydrophobicity leads to their concentration at air:water
interfaces (Wendt, et al. 1980), where organic matter is concentrated (Blanchard
& Hoffman 1978) by the same process of preferential adsorption to rising air
bubbles.

2.2.1.3 M avium response to temperature, oxygen, pH, and salinity
M avium can grow over a wide range of temperatures (George et al. 1980). Its
ability to grow at 45°C (Mijs et al. 2002) is undoubtedly responsible for its
presence in hot water systems (du Moulin et al. 1988). Not only can M avium
grow at 45°C, but M avium and a number of other environmental mycobacteria
are relatively resistant to high temperature (Schulze-Robbecke & Buchholtz
1992). During the summer, water in the coastal brown-water swamps of the
eastern United States is at 45°C or higher (Parker & Falkinham, unpublished
measurement).
    M avium and M intracellulare are capable of growth at reduced oxygen
levels. Both species grow rapidly in 12% and 21 % oxygen (air) (Lewis &
Falkinham, unpublished). Growth occurs at 6% oxygen though at half the rate as
in air. The ability to grow at low oxygen concentrations is reflected by the fact
that waters and soils yielding highest numbers of M avium and
M intracellulare have low oxygen levels (Brooks et al. 1984a; Kirschner et al.
1992). Neither M avium nor M intracellulare grow anaerobically (Lewis,
personal communication). In contrast to members of the M tuberculosis
complex, M avium can survive rapid shifts to anaerobiosis (Lewis &
Falkinham, unpublished).
   M avium and M intracellulare have acidic optima for growth. The pH range
for growth of the two species is wide, but highest rates of growth occur within
the pH 5-6 range (Portae Is & Pattyn 1982; George & Falkinham 1986).
Furthermore, M avium is resistant to acid and the acidic conditions of the
human stomach (Bodmer et al. 2000). Growth and tolerance of low pH provides
an explanation for the high numbers of M avium and M intracellulare in soils
and waters of peat-rich boreal forest soils and acid, brown-water swamps.
   M avium and M intracellulare grow in fresh and brackish waters (George et
al. 1980); indeed, growth in natural waters containing 1% NaCI (brackish) is
20                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

faster than growth in natural fresh waters. The ability to grow in brackish water
explains the high numbers of M avium and M intracellulare in the tidal waters
of large estuaries like the Chesapeake Bay of the eastern United States and in
the Gulf of Mexico. It also suggests that M avium and M intracellulare are
capable of shifting from an Na+ rich environment (e.g. estuary) to a K+ rich
environment (within macrophage or cells of protozoa or amoebae) without loss
of viability.

2.2.1.4 M avium metabolism
M avium can grow in natural waters containing low dissolved carbon (George
et al. 1980) and in drinking-water distribution systems (Falkinham et al. 2001).
It should be rightly considered an oligotroph. The growth of M avium and
M intracellulare is stimulated by humic and fulvic acids (Kirschner et al.
1999). Numbers of M avium and M intracellulare correlate with humic and
fulvic acid concentrations (Kirschner et al. 1999). Humic and fulvic acids are
the principal organic compounds in waters draining from peat-rich boreal forest
soils (Iivanainen et al. 1997a) and acid, brown-water swamps (Kirschner et al.
1999).


2.2.2    M. avium physiologic ecology
The widespread presence of M avium in waters, soils, and other environments is due
to its ability to exploit niches that are unoccupied by other, faster growing
microorganisms. Clearly, an acidic pH optimum, ability to grow under reduced
oxygen concentrations and stimulation of growth by humic and fulvic acids results in
the high numbers of M avium in two acidic, humic-rich environments: waters and
soils from peat-rich boreal forest soils and acid brown-water swamps. Because these
waters are used as sources for drinking-water, M avium can be introduced into
drinking-water systems. The very high resistance of M avium to ozone and chlorine-
based disinfectants allows the organism to persist and grow in drinking-water systems.
   Disinfection of water can lead to selection of M avium, M intracellulare and
other mycobacteria. In the absence of disinfection M avium cannot compete
effectively for limited nutrients. However, disinfection kills competitors permitting
growth of M avium on the available nutrients. This phenomenon is probably
responsible for the growth of M avium in drinking-water distribution systems
(Falkinham et al. 2001) and its presence in hot tubs and spas (Embil et al. 1997).
    The high hydrophobicity of M avium leads to its adherence to surfaces. That,
coupled with its resistance to heavy metals, means that it may be a pioneer of
biofilm formation on metals. The ability of M avium to grow at low oxygen
levels means that in spite of the reduced oxygen concentration in biofilms
(Stewart 1994) M avium can grow.
                      Natural ecology and survival in water                     21

   High hydrophobicity also results in the adsorption of M avium to air bubbles
in water and the resulting concentration at the air:water interface. Concentration
of M avium and M intracellulare at the air:water interface places it in an
environment rich in organic matter where there are few competitors. Adsorption
to bubbles leads to concentration in droplets ejected from water to air.
Significant numbers of M avium, M intracellulare and other hydrophobic
mycobacteria can be transferred from water to air by that mechanism.


2.3 HETEROGENEITY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ISOLATES
    OFMAVIUM
2.3.1 Impact of heterogeneity on identifying sources of human
      infection
Surveys have demonstrated a great deal of heterogeneity amongst environmental
isolates of M avium and M intracellulare (Frothingham & Wilson 1993, 1994).
As a consequence of the high frequency of M avium infection in AIDS patients
(Horsburgh 1991) there was a great deal of interest in identitying the source of
M avium. This led to the development of methods for fingerprinting M avium,
culminating in the identification of M avium strains from water samples with the
same DNA fingerprint as those from AIDS patients who had been exposed to the
water (von Reyn et al. 1994). It is important to understand that different typing
methods will yield different results based on the level of discrimination. A marker
may not be useful for fingerprinting and identitying sources of human infection
but may be quite useful in placing isolates within epidemiologically important
groups. For example, IS901 is useful for distinguishing M avium groups and may
be a marker for a unique M avium subspecies (Thorel et al. 1990).
   The results of DNA fingerprinting methods have also led to proposals for
revision of the taxonomy of the M avium group (Thorel et al. 1991; Mijs et al.
2002). The lack of knowledge of M avium characteristics that are associated
with infection coupled with the fluid state of M avium taxonomy and the
heterogeneity of environmental isolates of M avium means that any conclusions
concerning identification of sources of human infection are tentative and
provisional at this time.


2.3.2 M avium fingerprinting methods
Fingerprinting methods can be used to identity an isolate from the environment
as a member of the same clone as that recovered from a patient. Markers for
fingerprinting should be present in all strains and in multiple copies to ensure a
sufficient number of types. Because all isolates contain DNA and the presence
22                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

of DNA is unaffected by growth conditions (unlike phenotypic markers), DNA-
based fingerprinting methods are preferred. Markers that are either too stable or
too unstable are not suitable. However, the marker should demonstrate
polymorphism in populations.
    Sequences recognized by restriction endonucleases that make few cuts in
DNA have served as markers suitable for fingerprinting M avium (Arbeit et aZ.
1993; Slutsky et aZ. 1994). The large DNA fragments resulting from digestion
by such restriction endonucleases are separated by PFGE. This technique was
used to identify M avium isolates from AIDS patients and water to which the
patients were exposed (von Reyn et aZ. 1994).
    IS1245 is also valuable for DNA fingerprinting M avium: it is present in
multiple copies (Roiz et af. 1995); the fingerprint patterns in individual strains
are stable (Bauer & Andersen 1999); and there is polymorphism in populations.
A standard method for IS1245 fingerprinting has been published (van Soolingen
et aZ. 1998). It is not clear whether IS1245 fingerprinting alone will be sufficient
to provide unambiguous evidence of identity of patient and environmental
M avium isolates. Results of IS1245 fingerprinting have identified clusters of
types, but there has not been a comprehensive study comparing isolates from
humans (e.g. AIDS patients) with environmental isolates that are linked to the
patients through exposure to the environmental sample. For example, one study
identified a unique cluster of "bird" types (Ritacco et aZ. 1998) and another
identified an "AIDS-associated IS1245 pattern" (Lair et af. 1998). These
studies, coupled with IS901 typing and grouping M avium strains on the basis
of the sequence of the rRNA ITS region (Frothingham & Wilson 1993,1994),
may lead to identification of types more likely to be associated with human and
animal infection.
    It is clear that M avium taxonomy and fingerprinting is in a state of flux.
What is needed is a comprehensive study of patient and epidemiologically
linked environmental isolates in which every possible marker of utility is
examined. Such a study will require recovery of many isolates from both patient
and environmental samples because of the heterogeneity of M avium isolates in
environmental samples and polyclonal infection in patients.
                     Natural ecology and survival in water                  23


2.4 CHANGES IN THE OCCURRENCE IN
    MYCOBACTERIAL SPECIES
2.4.1 Shift of M. scrofulaceum to M. avium in cervical
      lymphadenitis in children
There has been a dramatic change in the causative agent of mycobacterial-
related cervical lymphadenitis in children in England (Colville 1993), the
United States (Wolinsky 1995), and Australia (Dawson, personal
communication). Historically, the major mycobacterial species recovered from
children with cervical lymphadenitis was M scrofulaceum (Wolinsky 1979).
Currently, however, M scrofulaceum is almost never isolated and M avium is
isolated (Colville 1993; Wolinsky 1995; Dawson, personal communication).
Wolinsky (1995) estimated that the shift from M scrofulaceum to M avium
occurred over the period 1975 to 1985. What is interesting about this change
is that it occurred over the same period of time in England, Australia and the
United States. Consequently, any hypothesis concerning the basis for this
change must account for events that occurred in all three nations. Possible
hypotheses include the fluoridation of drinking-waters and changes in water
treatment.
    Because the route of infection in these young children is probably via
water, the shift to M avium in cervical lymphadenitis in children suggests that
the frequency of M scrofulaceum in the environment has fallen. In a survey of
natural waters collected in the eastern United States over the period 1976-
1979, M scrofulaceum was present in high numbers (Falkinham et al. 1980).
In contrast, the same waters sampled from 1995 to the present seldom yield
M scrofulaceum (Falkinham, unpublished). This specific example suggests
that the distribution and number of other mycobacterial species may also be
changing.


2.4.2 Selection of mycobacteria by disinfectants
The widespread implementation of improved methods for disinfection of
drinking-water and the presence of disinfectant resistant mycobacteria in
source waters leads to selection for M avium and other mycobacteria in
drinking-water distribution systems. The use of disinfectants in medicine
(Carson et af. 1978; Safranek et al. 1987), industrial settings (Shelton et af.
1999) and home spas and hot tubs (Embil et af. 1997; Kamala et al. 1997;
Khoor et af. 1999) also leads to the predominance of mycobacteria in these
habitats. Because mycobacteria are not detected routinely in drinking-waters
and other samples, the presence of mycobacteria in the human environment
24                   Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

may be underestimated. It is important to point out that many outbreaks of
mycobacterial infections associated with exposure to medical solutions
(Safranek et al. 1987), industrial aerosols (Shelton et al. 1999) or hot tubs and
spas (Embil et al. 1997; Kamala et al. 1997) have occurred in spite of
disinfection of the possible source. This observation is troubling because it
suggests that disinfection can lead to mycobacterial infections.


2.5 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
In spite of the enormous progress in the understanding of M avium
epidemiology, ecology and physiologic ecology, there are still important
questions concerning this opportunistic pathogen. Some of the questions
involve the methodology used to detect, isolate and enumerate M avium in
environmental samples. Others involve questions of defining M avium and its
various types. The final issue of importance is the development of effective
disinfection strategies for reduction of M avium in the environment. Below is
a list of methodological research issues:
• improve recovery or detection of M avium in environmental samples
• define M avium and its various types
• identify markers for M avium virulence
• identify the dose-response to M avium infection in different human hosts
• develop effective M avium disinfection strategies.

   Current methods for recovery of M avium from environmental samples are
limited by losses due to transfer, adherence and decontamination. Another
problem that impacts on recovery and enumeration of M avium and other
mycobacteria is the fact that colony counts are usually 10-fold lower than
counts of cells, even in laboratory medium. This suggests current methods for
enumeration of mycobacterial cells as colonies underestimate numbers.
Further, recovery methods suffer from the need for relatively long-term
incubation. Although PCR-based methods offer the promise of rapid and
sensitive detection of M avium and other mycobacteria, they are limited by
difficulties in lysing mycobacterial cells and the lack of sensitivity of PCR-
based detection compared to colony-formation based detection. Developing a
quantitative PCR-based detection system is a further difficult step to achieve.
   The current status of M avium taxonomy is in a state of flux (Thorel et al.
1991; Mij s et at. 2002). The species M avium and M intracellulare must be
distinguished from one another. These relatives have different epidemiological
and ecological features. M avium predominates in AIDS patients and children
with cervical lymphadenitis whereas both are found at equal frequencies in
non-AIDS patients with pulmonary disease (Drake et al. 1988; Guthertz et al.
                       Natural ecology and survival in water                   25

 1989; Colville 1993, Wolinsky 1995). Furthermore, there has been no study
comparing the utility of different typing methods (e.g. IS901, IS1245, PFGE)
for discriminating between different M avium isolates from patients and from
epidemiologically matched environmental samples. Such a study might
identify virulence markers of M avium. Such knowledge would simplify and
reduce the cost of efforts to identify sources of M avium in humans and
animals. Currently, every mycobacterium is recovered, identified and
enumerated.
    It is important to develop alternative strategies for reduction of numbers of
M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria in the environment.
 Current disinfection strategies for drinking-water appear to select for
mycobacteria and their growth. One strategy for reduction of M avium is
reduction of particulates (i.e. turbidity) in raw and treated water (Falkinham et
al. 2001). Filtration can be used, but M avium and other mycobacteria can
grow on filters and the filters can, in tum, serve as sources for mycobacteria
by elution (Ridgway et al. 1984; Rodgers et al. 1999). Another approach
would be to identify novel disinfectants that are active against M avium,
M intracellulare and other mycobacteria. Identification of factors leading to
disinfectant resistance of M avium would contribute to this goal.
3
Environmental sources of
Mycobacterium avium linked to
routes of exposure
J. O. Falkinham




M avium has been recovered from almost every environmental compartment
that has been investigated including those that bring the organism into contact
with susceptible species such as humans, animals, birds, and fish. The sources
of M avium in the environment are:
   • natural water                              • soils
   • drinking-water                             • foods
                                                • plants and plant products
   • biofilms
    • aerosols                                  • fish.

  Although a number of independent studies have shown that patient and
environmental isolates of M avium are either identical or similar, based on

© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
 Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, O. Rees, A. Dufour
 and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                    27

patterns of genetic (von Reyn et al. 1994; Mansfield & Lackner 1997) and
physiologic (Fry et al. 1986) markers, it is not clear that all possible sources of
M avium in the environment have been identified, let alone the most important
reservoirs. The diversity of sources and the heterogeneity of M avium types
isolated from the environment have complicated our search for the source of
infection. Lack of knowledge of virulence markers has added further difficulty
to the identification of the sources of M avium infection. In addition, in many
studies M avium has not been distinguished from M intracellulare. Although
both are related, they are distinct species and appear to inhabit different but
overlapping environments. This chapter presents a review of the environmental
sources of M avium and M intracellulare and observations on the physiological
determinants of their ecology.


3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL SAMPLE TYPES YIELDING
    M.AVIUM
3.1.1 M. avium in water
3.1.1.1 Methods o/isolation
Isolation of M avium from water requires consideration of the methods for
concentration and disinfection. Filtration and centrifugation can be used to
concentrate mycobacteria in water. If the water sample is suspected of
containing microorganisms capable of overgrowing M avium colonies, the
sample can be disinfected. Disinfection relies upon the relative resistance of
mycobacteria to disinfectants and detergents. If filtration is used for
concentration, the sample should be disinfected before filtration (Glover et al.
1994). Following disinfection and filtration the filter is placed on a medium
suitable for growth of mycobacteria (e.g. Middlebrook 7HlO agar). If
centrifugation is used for concentration, the pelleted cells can be suspended in a
small volume of water. Water is suitable for suspension of mycobacteria
because the cells are resistant to lysis. Following concentration the sample can
be decontaminated. Decontaminating agents include 1% NaOH, 1% Oxalic acid,
1% Hel (Brooks et al. 1984a), and 0.04% epe (du Moulin & Stottmeier 1978).
In addition to killing other microorganisms, the decontaminating agents also kill
mycobacteria but to a lesser extent (e.g. 5% survival, Brooks et al. 1984). This
means that only a minority of the total population of waterborne M avium cells
have been recovered and enumerated in the many reports of M avium in water.
Different combinations of concentration and disinfection for isolation of
mycobacteria have been reviewed (Brooks et al. 1984; Schulze-Robbecke et al.
1991; Kamala et al. 1994; Iivanainen et al. 1997; Neumann et al. 1997).
28                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Unfortunately, there is no consensus for the method yielding the highest number
of mycobacteria. For drinking-water, decontamination may not be required
(Falkinham et al. 2001). Because of the hydrophobicity of mycobacteria it is
possible that significant numbers of cells are lost during transfer.
   A further discussion of analytical methods used for the detection of
pathogenic waterborne mycobacteria can be found in Chapter 5.

3.1.1.2 M avium in natural waters
A variety of natural waters throughout the world, including lakes, rivers, ponds
and streams, have been shown to contain a resident M avium population
(Falkinham et al. 1980; du Moulin & Stottmeier 1986; Kirschner et al. 1992;
von Reyn et al. 1993a; Covert et al. 1999). Whereas brackish water (1% NaCl)
yields appreciable numbers of M avium, seawater (> 3% NaCl) seldom has any
mycobacteria (Falkinham et al. 1980). M avium can grow in natural waters but
cannot grow in waters of high salinity (George et al. 1980). Groundwater
seldom contains M avium (Martin et al. 1987; Falkinham et al. 2001). M avium
numbers are highest in waters of low oxygen and high organic matter content
(Brooks et al. 1984; Kirschner et al. 1992). High numbers of M avium are
recovered from acid, brown-water swamps of the south-eastern coast of the
United States (Kirschner et al. 1992) and acidic, brown-waters draining from
peat-rich boreal forest soils in Finland (Iivanainen et al. 1999a).

3.1.1.3 M avium in drinking-waters
Drinking-water has been shown to have a resident M avium popUlation (du
Moulin et al. 1988; von Reyn et al. 1993, 1994; Glover et al. 1994; Peters et al.
1995; Covert et al. 1999; Ristola et al. 1999; Falkinham et al. 2001). A single
M avium clone was isolated repeatedly from a hospital water system over a
period of 18 months demonstrating that M avium is not a contaminant but is a
normal inhabitant of drinking-water (von Reyn et al. 1994). Numbers of
M avium in recirculating hot water systems are increased relative to numbers in
the input water (du Moulin et al. 1988) suggesting that M avium is replicating
in such systems in agreement with studies in natural water (George et al. 1980).
   The number and frequency of isolation of M avium varies quite widely
between drinking-water systems (Falkinham et al. 2001). M avium numbers in
raw water sources for drinking-water systems correlates with the concentration
of particulate matter suggesting that M avium is associated with particulates
(Falkinham et al. 2001). Thus, one approach for reducing the number of
M avium in a drinking-water system is to remove particulates (e.g. turbidity)
from the raw waters during treatment. Numbers of M avium in drinking-water
distribution systems are higher in samples collected from the mid- and end-
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                   29

points of the system compared to numbers in water collected immediately after
treatment (Falkinham et al. 2001). This suggests that mycobacterial growth
occurs in the distribution system. The presence of M avium in treated water is
consistent with its high resistance to ozone and chlorine-based disinfectants
(Taylor et al. 2000).

3.1.1.4 Other water samples
Due to the widespread presence of M avium in drinking-water, recreational and
other waters that have their origin in drinking-water yield mycobacteria. Spas
and hot tubs have been shown to yield M avium that have been associated with
infection in people using the spas (Embil et al. 1997; Kahana et al. 1997; Khoor
et al. 2001). Swimming pools yield M avium (Havelaar et al. 1985; Emde et al.
1992) and long-term exposure to aerosols results in a granulomatous
pneumonitis in lifeguards (Rose et al. 1998).

3.1.1.5 M avium in biojilms
M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria have been shown to be
present in biofilms (Schulze-R6bbecke & Fischeder 1989; Iivanainen et al.
1999a; Falkinham et al. 2001). In a study of eight drinking-water distribution
systems across the United States the average number of M avium in biofilms
was 0.3 cfu/cm2 and the number of M intracellulare was 600 cfu/cm2 for all
surfaces (Falkinham et al. 2001). If one considers the size of pipes used to
distribute drinking-water and the length of the pipes in a system (e.g. 75 to 7100
miles) the contribution of biofilm to the microbial flora of the drinking-water is
substantial.
   The presence of M avium in biofilms in drinking-water systems might
explain why two groundwater-fed drinking-water systems did not have
M avium in their raw source water, but did have M avium in the distribution
system (Falkinham et al. 2001). The frequency of recovery of M avium in water
samples from the same systems was higher than that of M intracellulare
(Falkinham et al. 2001), suggesting that one preferred habitat of
M intracellulare is within a biofilm.
   The type of surface apparently had an effect on mycobacterial biofilm
numbers. Numbers of M intracellulare were 4400 cfu/cm2 on brass or bronze
surfaces compared to 70 cfu/cm2 on plastic (Falkinham et al. 2001). The values
for cfu/cm2 in the drinking-water distribution systems (Falkinham et al. 2001)
were lO-fold lower than the numbers for hot water silicon tube biofilms
(Schulze-R6bbecke & Fischeder 1989). The presence of hot water would
increase the growth of mycobacteria on any surface (George et al. 1980).
30                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


3.1.2 M. avium in soils
3.1.2.1 Methods a/isolation
Isolation of M avium from soil samples involves three steps: elution from
particulate matter, concentration, and disinfection. Current methods for
recovering M avium from soil are inefficient; for example, Brooks and co-
workers could only recover 5% of Mavium cells added to soil samples (Brooks
et al. 1984). Decontamination is then required to reduce the high numbers of
microorganisms whose colonies overgrow those of mycobacteria. Because
decontamination reduces M avium numbers by 95% and only 5% of M avium
cells can be separated from particulate matter (Brooks et al. 1984), only 0.25%
of total mycobacteria in soils are recovered as cfu. As is the case for water, a
variety of reports have compared different methods of isolation of mycobacteria
from soils (Brooks et al. 1984; Portaels et al. 1988; Kamala et al. 1994;
Iivanainen 1996). It has been shown that exposure of soils to polysaccharidases
increases the numbers of isolates and species of mycobacteria in soils (Thorel et
al. 1991).

3.1.2.2 M avium in soils and peat
A wide variety of soils, sediments and peat have been reported to contain
M avium. The soils include those on river banks in the south-eastern United
States (Brooks et al. 1984a), in swamps in the coastal south-eastern United
States (Kirschner et al. 1992) and peat-rich boreal forest soils in Finland
(Iivanainen et al. 1997a), both of which yield high numbers of M avium.
Characteristics that correlate with high numbers of M avium include low pH,
high organic matter and low oxygen (Brooks et al. 1984; Kirschner et al. 1992;
Iivanainen et al. 1997a). The high numbers of M avium reported in drinking-
waters in Finland (Ristola et al. 1999) and in the north-eastern United States are
likely due to the use of source waters rich in mycobacteria.
   Yajko and co-workers reported that 55 % of soil samples from potted plants
of AIDS patients contained M avium which is consistent with the high numbers
of M avium and other mycobacteria in peat-rich boreal forest soils (Yajko et al.
1995). Furthermore, we have recently discovered that commercial samples of
peat and potting soils sold in the United States are rich in M avium and other
mycobacteria (Falkinham, unpublished).
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                 31


3.1.3 M. avium in aerosols, ejected droplets and dust
3.1.3.1 Methods a/isolation
M avium and other mycobacteria in aerosols and dusts can be recovered and
enumerated. A simple method is to use the Andersen 6-Stage Cascade Sampler
(Andersen 1958). This sampler separates particulates in the air on the basis of
size by impacting on the surface of agar medium. Whether the particle collected
is from soil (e.g. dust) or from water (e.g. droplet) cannot be determined.
Airborne cells are recovered as colonies. Thus the instrument provides a
measure of the number of airborne cells and the associated particle size.
Particles recovered on the bottom two stages are of a size that can enter the
alveoli of the human lung (Andersen 1958). Because the particles are separated
by size, most fungal spores are trapped on those stages collecting larger
particles. Thus decontamination may not be required unless the air or dust
sample contains a substantial number of Bacillus spores. Malachite green at a
concentration of 0.05% in Middlebrook 7H1O agar medium does not inhibit
growth of mycobacteria, but is effective at preventing colony formation of other
bacteria and fungi (Jones & Falkinham, in preparation).
   M avium and other mycobacteria can also be recovered from droplets that
are ejected from the surface of water. Air bubbles rising through a water column
collect particles, chemicals and microorganisms (Blanchard & Szydek 1970,
1978, 1982; Blanchard et al. 1981). Hydrophobic interaction drives the
adsorption to bubbles and results in bubbles reaching the surface enriched in
organic chemicals and hydrophobic microbial cells (Blanchard & Hoffman
1978; Weber et al. 1983). Because mycobacteria are the most hydrophobic of
microorganisms (van Oss et al. 1975), they are enriched in the bubbles. When
the bubbles reach the surface they burst and form a crater that results in the
ejection of one to several droplets 8-10 cm above the water surface (Blanchard
& Szydek 1978). The droplets can be collected on inverted agar medium and the
droplet size calculated from the diameter of the craters formed by the droplets
on an inverted Petri dish coated with MgO (Blanchard et al. 1981). The ejected
droplets are enriched in mycobacteria (Parker et al. 1983). Indeed, for M avium,
the concentration of cfu in the ejected droplets divided by the concentration in
the bulk suspension (enrichment factor) can be as high as 10 000 (Parker et al.
1983).

3.1.3.2 M avium in ejected droplets
M avium can be recovered as cfu from droplets ejected from natural waters
(Wendt et al. 1980). For these measurements, inverted Petri dishes were held
10 cm above a river surface for 60 minutes. Immediately after collection, the
32                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

liquid on the plates was spread and the plates incubated until mycobacteria
colonies were recovered (Wendt et al. 1980). In a second study both water and
ejected droplets were collected at the same site on the James River in Richmond,
Virginia. The number of M avium and M intracellulare in ejected droplets was
2715 per ml and the number in water was 0.19 per ml (Falkinham et al. 1990).
This data demonstrates that there is enrichment of M avium and
M intracellulare in natural ej ected droplets (~14 000-fold) resulting in
considerable transfer of mycobacteria from water to air.
   Laboratory experiments showed that M avium and M intracellulare, but not
the relatively hydrophilic M scrofulaceum, were preferentially aerosolized
(Parker et al. 1983). Further studies demonstrated a correlation between
enrichment factor and hydrophobicity (Falkinham 1989). Because the bubble
burst jet drop mechanism of aerosol transfer of microorganisms occurs in every
natural body of water, mycobacteria can be efficiently detected, enumerated and
identified with few problems of contamination.

3.1.3.3 M avium in aerosols
M avium and other mycobacteria can be recovered from aerosols using the
Andersen Cascade sampler (Falkinham et al. 1990). Between July 1979 and July
1980, twice monthly aerosol samples were collected at a park by the James
River in Richmond, Virginia. The site was far from any agricultural activity.
Numbers of M avium and M intracellulare averaged 25 cfu/m 3 of air and
1.4 cfu/m3 associated with particles able to reach the alveoli (Falkinham et al.
1990). Based on an estimate that a human inhales 6 m3 air per day, a person at
that site would inhale 150 M avium and M intracellulare per day (8 reaching
the alveoli). The highest number was 250 cfu/m3 air. The numbers of M avium
and M intracellulare were not correlated with the numbers in river water at the
same site (Falkinham et at. 1990).


3.1.4 M. avium in phagocytic protozoa and amoebae
3.1.4.1 Intracellular growth and enumeration
M avium, like other mycobacteria, are intracellular pathogens able to survive
and grow in infected animal macrophages. They are also capable of survival and
growth in phagocytic protozoa (Tetrahymena pyriformis) and amoebae
(Acanthamoeba polyphaga and Acanthamoeba castellanii). In laboratory
experiments it was shown that M avium is readily phagocytozed by protozoa
and amoebae (Strahl et al. 2001). Five days after infection of protozoa or
amoebae, the number of intracellular M avium cells increases to 5-10 per
infected T. pyriformis cell (Strahl et al. 2001) or 10-15 per infected
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                   33

A. castellanii cell (Cirillo et al. 1997). M avium survives cyst formation and
germination of T. pyriformis (Strahl et al. 2001) and A. polyphaga (Steinert et
al. 1998). Thus protozoa and amoebae increase numbers of M avium and other
mycobacteria in habitats where both reside. One troubling aspect of intracellular
growth of M avium in protozoa and amoebae is that the resulting M avium cells
are more virulent in mice (Cirillo et al. 1997) and chickens (Falkinham,
unpUblished).
    Recovery of intracellular M avium from protozoa or amoebae can be
performed using lysis with 1% SDS (Cirillo et al. 1997). The detergent does not
reduce colony formation by M avium or other mycobacteria (Cirillo et al.
1997). Protozoa and amoebae can be recovered from water samples by
centrifugation (1000 x g for 10 minutes), and mycobacteria recovered after lysis
or simply by spreading the low speed pellet on Middlebrook 7H10 agar.
Eventually the protozoa or amoebae lyse. Individual protozoa or amoebae can
be isolated using micropipettes and grown in medium to determine numbers of
intracellular mycobacteria.
    There are no published reports of any systematic study of numbers of
M avium and other mycobacteria in protozoa or amoebae. Protozoa and
amoebae offer an environmental sample likely enriched for M avium and
mycobacteria. In one study, we compared the recovery of mycobacteria from
water with recovery from T. pyriformis that had been added to the water sample
and incubated one week. More species and higher numbers of Mycobacterium
were recovered from the protozoa (Falkinham, unpublished). An investigation
of intracellular mycobacteria in protozoa and amoebae is important because
those environmental habitats yielding high numbers of M avium also harbour
high numbers of protozoa and amoebae.


3.1.5 Other sources of M. avium
M avium and other mycobacteria have been isolated from foods (Yajko et al.
1995; Yoder et al. 1999; Argueta et al. 2000), fish (Me die I et al. 2000; Rhodes
et al. 2001) and tobacco products (Eaton et al. 1995) all of which come into
contact with humans and thus can serve as a source of infection. In one study,
25 of 121 (21%) food samples yielded M avium (Argueta et al. 2000). Isolation
from tobacco products was attempted because of the report that smokers who
suffered from pulmonary alveolar proteinosis were also infected with M avium
whereas non-smokers were not infected (Witty et al. 1994).
34                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


3.2 IMPACT OF UNIDENTIFIED MYCOBACTERIAL
    ISOLATES
Depending upon the study, a significant proportion of mycobacteria recovered
from different environments do not belong to established mycobacterial species.
For example, in a study of brook waters in Finland, 15% of isolates belonged to
established species and that percentage was raised to only 28% if isolates that
were "like" established species were included (Iivanainen et at. 1993). In studies
of drinking-water the percentage of isolates that did not belong to established
species varied from 15-50% (Covert et al. 1999; Fa1kinham et al. 2001; Le
Dantec et al. 2002). Because different computer programs for calculating
similarity index values for isolates from the same 16SrRNA gene sequence data
yield different values (Drancourt et at. 2000), the program used has a direct
impact on the diversity of mycobacterial species isolated. The method of
recovery directly influences the spectrum of Mycobacterium species isolated
from environmental samples. Decontamination reduces the number and range of
species and colony variants differ in their susceptibility to disinfection (Brooks
et al. 1984). In addition, the diversity of species recovered from a sample is
related to the total number of isolates recovered. For example, polyclonal
infection in AIDS patients can only be detected when a sufficient number of
isolates are recovered (Slutsky et al. 1994). The same holds for diversity in
environmental samples.
   The impact of these factors means that we are isolating, identifying and
characterizing only a minority of cells that are present in the environment. That
in turn tempers the impact of any conclusions that can be made concerning the
ecology of M avium, M intraceilulare or other mycobacteria.


3.3 ENVIRONMENTS WITH IDGH NUMBERS OF M. A VIUM
Because M avium is an opportunistic human pathogen it is important to point
out those environmental sources that have high numbers. Boreal, peat-rich forest
soils and waters yield high numbers of M avium and other mycobacteria
(Iivanainen et al. 1997a). Such forests are found in Finland, across northern
Europe, the northern United States, and Canada. The presence of high numbers
of M avium in Finnish drinking-water was associated with a high frequency of
M avium infection in Finnish AIDS patients (Ristola et al. 1999). Waters and
soils of the acid, brown-water swamps of the south-eastern coastal United States
also yield high numbers of M avium (Kirschner et al. 1992). Although located
in different parts of the world, both share low pH, low oxygen and presence of
high concentrations of humic and fulvic acids.
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                   35

    Peat and potting soils yield high numbers of M avium (Yajko et al. 1995).
This is not unexpected because peat-rich boreal forest soils have high numbers
of M avium and other mycobacteria. Commercial peat-rich potting soils and
samples of soil in pots with plants have numbers of M avium approaching 10 6
per gram (Falkinham, unpublished).
    Recirculating hot water systems, spas, and hot tubs yield high numbers of
M avium. The presence of M avium in spas and hot tubs has been associated
with M avium infection in humans in a number of independent studies (Embil et
al. 1997; Kahana et al. 1997). Recirculating hot water systems in hospitals were
shown to have higher numbers of M avium than the source water for the system
(du Moulin et al. 1988).
    Biofilms contain M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria.
Biofilms in drinking-water distribution systems appear to be a preferred habitat
for M intracellulare (600 cfu/cm2) compared to M avium (0.3 cfu/cm2)
(Falkinham et al. 2001). Shower heads collect a biofilm and are good sites to
sample for M avium. The ability of M avium, M intracellulare and other
mycobacteria to form biofilms means that they can populate in-line water filters
used for water purification (Ridgway et al. 1984). In fact, it has been shown that
M avium was capable of populating and growing to 100 000 cfu in an inline
filter (Rodgers et al. 1999). This observation suggests another method for
collection of samples to detect or monitor M avium numbers: place in-line
filters in the water distribution system and sample them at intervals.


3.4 ROUTES OF EXPOSURE
Routes of M avium exposure include ingestion, inhalation and surface or
traumatic exposure. Because of the widespread distribution of M avium in many
environments, human and mycobacterial habitats overlap leading to exposure.


3.4.1 Ingestion
There is long-term evidence that ingestion is a route of M avium infection.
Cervical lymphadenitis caused by M avium is found in children from six
months to two years old (Wolinsky 1995). In addition, M avium infection in
simian immunodeficiency virus infected macaques was traced to the water
drunk by the monkeys (Mansfield & Lackner 1997). Ingestion of mycobacteria
could also occur through eating fish or other foods that are colonized (infected)
with M avium or other mycobacteria.
36                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


3.4.2 Inhalation
The results of studies of M tuberculosis transmission and evidence of
pulmonary infection have been used to postulate an aerosol route of infection for
M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria. Demonstration that
M avium and M intracellulare cells are readily aerosolized from water, are
highly hydrophobic and can be recovered from aerosols, certainly support that
route of infection. However, there has been no demonstration of aerosol
transmission of M avium infection to laboratory animals, possibly because of
the low infectivity of M avium. Both water droplets and particulates in the
atmosphere are likely vehicles of M avium transmission. Not only are M avium
cells enriched in water droplets ejected from surfaces (Parker et al. 1983), but
M avium numbers are associated with particulate matter in water (Falkinham et
al. 2001). Droplets enriched for M avium (and other mycobacteria) would be
generated from any body of water and are formed in large numbers in domestic
showers. Because hot water systems can be enriched for mycobacteria, showers
may be rich sources for mycobacterial-enriched aerosols. Dust particles may
also serve as vectors for transmission of M avium. Discovery that peat soils are
rich in M avium and other mycobacteria led us to measure the mycobacteria in
aerosols generated by dropping 100 gm of peat or potting soil 30 cm. Using the
6-Stage Andersen Cascade Sampler, we have found that the resulting
aerosolized particles contain mycobacteria in substantial numbers. In addition,
some of the particles associated with mycobacteria were within the size range
that could enter human alveoli (Falkinham, unpublished).


3.4.3 Trauma
Trauma, resulting from either surface abrasions or lllJUry or during surgical
procedures, may also lead to infection by M avium and other mycobacteria.
Mycobacterium marinum granulomas on the hands have been found in
individuals who handle fish and have skin abrasions (Wolinsky 1979). The
presence of substantial numbers of M avium in water may also result in human
exposure. The disinfectant resistance of M avium and other mycobacteria can
lead to their persistence in solutions used in surgeries. A nosocomial
M chelonae infection was associated with the use of a gentian violet-containing
skin-marking solution (Safranek et al. 1987).


3.4.4 Biofilms
Biofilms not only represent a mechanism for the persistence and growth of
M avium in tubes, but they also represent a reservoir for cells. For example, a
persistent M avium infection was shown to be associated with biofilm
                Environmental sources of Mycobacterium avium                    37

formation in a catheter (Schelonka et at. 1994). Not only are the biofilms
sources for more cells, but M avium and M intracellulare cells in biofilms are
more resistant to antibiotics (Steed & Falkinham, in preparation). Furthermore,
M avium and M intracellulare cells grown in biofilms but exposed to
antibiotics in suspension are more resistant to antibiotics (Steed & Falkinham, in
preparation), suggesting that biofilm growth alone renders M avium more
resistant to antibiotics.


3.5 OVERLAP OF HUMAN AND M. A VlUMENVIRONMENTS
There are a number of factors that suggest that the incidence of disease caused
by M avium, M intracellulare and other mycobacteria will continue to increase.
In part, this will be a consequence of the existence of overlaps of human and
mycobacterial environments. For example, it is possible that widespread use of
chlorine and other disinfectants to improve water quality have led to increases in
mycobacterial numbers. Because M avium is so resistant to disinfection,
competing microorganisms are killed by disinfectants leaving mycobacteria free
to proliferate in the absence of competition. Distribution systems and hot water
systems provide environments for the growth of mycobacteria and thus increase
numbers to which humans and animals are exposed. The use of potting soils rich
in peat leads to exposure of gardeners (professional and amateur) to particles
containing high numbers of M avium and other mycobacteria. Thus some
human activities may increase the risk of exposure of individuals to
mycobacteria. Those overlaps, coupled with an ageing human population
containing more individuals with immunodeficiency through therapy or
infection, suggest that infection by M avium, M intracellulare and other
mycobacteria may become more prevalent.


3.6 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
In spite of the enormous progress in the understanding of M avium
epidemiology, ecology, and physiologic ecology, there are still important
questions concerning this opportunistic pathogen. Some of the questions
involve the methodology used to detect, isolate, and enumerate M avium in
environmental samples. Others involve questions of defining M avium and its
various types. The final issue of importance is the development of effective
disinfection strategies for reduction of M avium in the environment. Below is a
list of methodological research issues.
• Improve recovery or detection of M avium in environmental samples
• Define M avium and its various types
38                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

•     Identify markers for M avium virulence
•     Identify the dose-response to M avium infection in different human hosts
•     Develop effective M avium disinfection strategies
    Current methods for recovery of M avium from environmental samples are
limited by losses due to transfer, adherence, and decontamination. Another
problem that impacts on recovery and enumeration of M avium and other
mycobacteria is the fact that colony counts are usually 10-fold lower than counts
of cells, even in laboratory medium. This suggests current methods for
enumeration of colonies underestimate numbers. Furthermore, recovery
methods suffer from the need for relatively long term incubation. Although,
PCR-based methods offer the promise of rapid and sensitive detection of
M avium and other mycobacteria, they are limited by difficulties in lysing
mycobacterial cells and the lack of sensitivity of PCR-based detection compared
to colony-formation based detection. Developing a quantitative PCR-based
detection system is a further difficult step to achieve.
    The current status of M avium taxonomy is in a state of flux (Mijs et al.
2002). First, the species M avium and M intracellulare must be distinguished
from one another. The relatives have different epidemiological and ecological
patterns. M avium predominates in AIDS patients and children with cervical
lymphadenitis, whereas both are found at equal frequencies in non-AIDS
patients with pulmonary disease (Drake et al. 1988; Guthertz et al. 1989;
Colville 1993; Wolinsky 1995). Further, there has been no study comparing the
utility of different typing methods (e.g., IS901, IS1245, PFGE) for
discriminating between different M avium isolates from patients and from
epidemiologically matched environmental samples. Such a study might identify
virulence markers of M avium. Such knowledge would simplify and reduce the
cost of efforts to identify sources of M avium in humans and animals.
Currently, every mycobacterium is recovered, identified, and enumerated.
    It is important to develop alternative strategies for reduction of numbers of
M avium, M intracellulare, and other mycobacteria in the environment.
Current disinfection strategies for drinking water appear to select for
mycobacteria and their growth. One strategy for reduction of M avium is
reduction of particulates (i.e., turbidity) in raw and treated water (Falkinham et
al. 200 I). Filtration can be used, but it is important to recall that M avium and
other mycobacteria can grow on filters and the filters can, in tum, serve as
sources for mycobacteria by elution (Ridgway et al. 1984; Rodgers et al. 1999).
Another approach would be to identify novel disinfectants that are active against
M avium, M intracellulare, and other mycobacteria. Identification of factors
leading to disinfectant-resistance of M avium would contribute to this goal.
  4
  Biology of waterborne pathogenic
  mycobacteria

 G. Cangelosi, J. Clark-Curtiss, M Behr, T Bull
 and T Stinear




 4.1 INTRODUCTION
 4.1.1 Taxonomy and terminology
 The waterborne mycobacteria are members of a large and very significant
 family of human pathogens. Mycobacterium is the single genus in the family
Mycobacteriaceae, order Actinomycetales. Over 70 Mycobacterium species
have been defined, at least 30 of which cause disease in humans or animals.
Mycobacterium species fall into two groups: the slow growers and the rapid
growers. This descriptive division predates modern genotype-based taxonomic
methods; however, it has been shown to be consistent with genotypic taxonomy
(Rogall et al. 1990). Most pathogenic mycobacteria are slow growers, the most
notable exception being the rapid-growing M fortuitum complex. Mycobacteria
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences. Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
40                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

are easily identifiable by the mycolic acids in their cell envelopes. Rich in other
lipids as well, mycobacterial cell envelopes can account for up to 40% of total
cell weight. These structures are responsible for the ability of the bacteria to
resist decolourization by weak acids after staining, hence the diagnostic term
"acid-fast bacilli".
    The M tuberculosis complex, a cluster of closely related species that
includes the causative agent of TB, ranks with HIV and malaria parasites as
among the most significant microbial pathogens of humans. The genus also
includes M leprae, the causative agent of Hansen disease (leprosy). Neither
M tuberculosis nor M leprae are encountered in water. A variety of other
Mycobacterium species, some of which are very common in water, occasionally
infect humans. When isolated from patients' samples, these organisms are
sometimes referred to as "atypical" or "NTM"; however, the term
"environmental mycobacteria" is more informative.
    From the standpoint of human health, the most significant of the
environmental mycobacteria are the MAC and M ulcerans. MAC is considered
to include MAA, MAP, M avium subspecies silvaticum and M intracellulare.
These divisions are well defined based on phenotypic as well as genotypic
(rRNA) criteria (Boddinghaus et al. 1990; Frothingham & Wilson 1994).
Recently, a proposal was made to confine the designation MAA to a cluster of
closely related strains that are commonly isolated from birds and rarely from
humans (avian strains) and assign a new name, M avium subspecies
hominissuis, to the more diverse group of strains that are more commonly
isolated from mammalian (including human) environments (Mijs et al. 2002).
This proposal was based upon genotypic and phenotypic analysis of a large
number of strains. However, at the time of this writing it is still a proposal, not a
universally accepted standard. Therefore, the standard terminology is used here.
    Many human and environmental isolates of MAC do not fall neatly within
any of the designations listed above. Such isolates can exhibit genotypic
features of two or more different MAC species, and are usually given
designations such as "MAC/'. The existence of such intermediate types may
help explain the common view of MAC as a continuum of more or less
indistinguishable species and subspecies. However, as emphasized elsewhere in
this book, the pathogens we know as MAA, MAP and M intracellulare are
distinct in many significant ways, including environmental niches, host
preferences and clinical manifestations. Recognition of these distinctions is
important to the understanding of the biology of MAC.
    M ulcerans is the causative agent of Buruli ulcer, a debilitating disease
characterized by large necrotic skin ulcers that is currently widespread
throughout West and Central Africa (refer to Chapter 8). M ulcerans is closely
related to the fish pathogen M marinum. Analysis of their full 16SrRNA
                Biology of waterborne pathogenic mycobacteria                 41

sequences show> 99.8% identity and comparisons of other gene sequences
show a similar high level of sequence conservation (Stinear et al. 2000b). Yet
despite this high level of genetic relatedness M ulcerans and M marinum are
phenotypically distinct. Notably, M ulcerans is slow growing with a doubling
time of 36 hours in vitro, whereas M marinum is a robust environmental
organism that doubles every 6 hours in vitro and is readily isolated from diverse
aquatic environments. It is extremely difficult to isolate M ulcerans from the
environment, although the pathogen may occupy niche environments such as the
salivary glands of particular aquatic insects (Masollier et al. 2002). M marinum
causes a tuberculoid disease in fish and other poikilotherms and a relatively
minor skin infection in humans. As with other mycobacterial pathogens,
M marinum can replicate within the host macrophage and provokes the
formation of a granuloma by the host. In contrast, M ulcerans is not known to
cause disease in fish and in humans it produces large necrotic skin lesions
caused by massive necrosis of subcutaneous fat. Histopathology shows a
marked absence of a host inflammatory immune response and massive numbers
of bacilli are found extracellularly. This unusual pathology has been linked to
the presence of a macrolide toxin produced by M ulcerans called mycolactone
(George et al. 1999). M marinum does not produce mycolactone.
   In addition to the use ofrRNA-based systematics, the species and subspecies
of environmental mycobacteria have also been classified by a number of
phenotypic characteristics including Runyon Group, pigment production,
serotype and host range. However, genotypic classifications based upon rRNA
structural gene and spacer sequences, species-specific insertion elements and
other genetic markers described in later sections, are considered by most to be
more reliable markers. They are becoming more practical with the increasingly
widespread availability of commercial DNA probes (Accuprobe, Genprobe,
Inc., San Diego, California), PCR and DNA sequencing capabilities.


4.1.2 Evolution and diversity of MAC
Epidemiological evidence indicates that humans are infected by MAC that is
living in the environment, not via person-to-person transmission. Although
viable MAC cells can occasionally be cultured from the stools of AIDS patients,
there is little evidence to suggest that infective populations of the bacteria
commonly make their way back to the environment. Therefore, the populations
of MAA and M intracellulare cells to which humans are exposed are not likely
to have human environments in their recent evolutionary histories. Their
pathogenic capabilities were selected by environmental challenges encountered
outside of human hosts. Unfortunately, very little is known about the lives of
MAC cells in the environment.
42                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    It is possible that extracellular environments select for traits in MAC that are
coincidentally advantageous in human infections. For example, resistance to
environmental toxins might also confer protection from the killing effects of
antibiotics and host immune cells. Alternatively, the bacteria may routinely
encounter and defend themselves against the phagocytic cells of animal hosts.
MAP is well known to infect livestock while MAA and M intracellulare infect
a variety of mammals and birds in serovar-specific fashion. Certain MAA
strains are commonly excreted in the faeces of birds after which they can persist
in the soil for extended periods of time. Although there is little evidence for
direct transmission from animals to humans a few serovars and strain types can
be recovered from both, consistent with the possibility that virulence
mechanisms are maintained in animal reservoirs (Mijs et al. 2002; Inderlied et
al. 1993).
    An alternative model is that environmental mycobacteria commonly reside
within environmental amoebae, where they encounter an environment similar to
that found in human phagocytic cells (Cirillo et al. 1997; Steinert et al. 1998;
Miltner & Bermudez 2000). This is supported by laboratory studies which have
shown that MAA cells grown within Acanthamoeba are more virulent than
extracellularly grown MAA. However, it is not known how often this happens
in the environment. Nonhuman reservoirs must be explored if we are to
understand how environmental mycobacteria infect humans. Such studies may
also lead to improved nonhuman disease models, and refined methods for
detecting harmful MAC populations in drinking-water.
    Compared to closely related groups such as the M tuberculosis complex,
MAC is diverse phenotypically as well as phylogenetically. This diversity is
evident between species (e.g. MAA and M intracellulare), between individual
isolates within a species and even within a single clinical isolate. Most clinical
isolates of MAC form multiple colony morphotypes that vary with regard to
infectivity, susceptibility to antibiotics and ability to survive in various
environments.        MAC also exhibits considerable genetic polymorphism,
mediated in part by mobile insertion elements that are abundant in their
genomes (Arbeit et al. 1993; von Reyn et al. 1995; Eckstein et al. 2000;
Matsiota-Bernard et al. 2000; Laurent et al. 2002).
    The heterogeneity of MAC has important implications with regard to
epidemiology and risk assessment. It is possible that some strains found in the
environment are especially infectious to humans, while others may be relatively
harmless. This would compromise the predictive value of environmental
monitoring efforts that assume uniform levels of infectivity. Therefore, a
significant priority for MAC research is the identification of genetic or
phenotypic markers that can distinguish the most infective strains from those
                Biology of waterborne pathogenic mycobacteria                  43

that are relatively harmless to humans. Such markers could help refine
epidemiological analysis and lead to more accurate methods of risk assessment.


4.2 MYCOBACTERIAL GENOMES
Our understanding of the biology of M tuberculosis and M leprae improved
dramatically with the determination of their genomic nucleotide sequences.
Further rapid progress is being made with studies on genome-wide patterns of
gene expression and gene function. Our understanding of MAC and similar
environmental pathogens is on the cusp of similar progress, with the impending
completion of the genomic nucleotide sequences of MAA, MAP, M ulcerans,
and M marinum.


4.2.1 The MAA genome
The genome sequence of MAA strain 104, a clinical isolate originating from an
AIDS patient in California, is nearing completion by The Institute for Genomic
Research (http://www.tigr.org). The sequence has a high G+C content (68.5%)
and is about 5.48 mb long. It has been annotated by M. Behr and co-workers at
McGill University, Montreal, Canada (Semret et al. submitted). Approximately
4480 coding sequences were identified that are likely to be genes. In contrast,
the genome of M tuberculosis is about 4.4 mb long and has 3959 likely genes
(Cole et al. 1998; http://genolist.pasteur.fr/TubercuList/). Approximately 385
MAA genes have no counterpart in M tuberculosis. Presumably, some of these
MAA-specific genes confer the ability to live and grow in the environment,
which M tuberculosis lacks. Others code for unique cell surface properties that
are discussed below.
   When using genome sequence information on MAC it is important to bear in
mind that the organism's heterogeneity is such that there is probably no truly
representative strain. The choice ofMAA strain 104 for genome sequencing was
made in the mid-1990s based on several criteria. As an AIDS isolate it was
representative of the majority of MAC disease cases at the time. It is virulent in
nonhuman disease models and intrinsically multi-drug resistant. It is a stable
"red transparent" morphotypic clone, which is somewhat unusual in a virulent
clinical isolate (Mukherjee et al. 2001). Its relative stability would have
simplified the process of sequence determination and assembly at the possible
cost of using a strain that is less typical than an isolate that exhibits nOfUlal
morphotypic switching.
   As with M tuberculosis the genome of MAA contains a large number of
mobile genetic elements termed IS. These elements are usually small (1 to 2 kb),
with little or no genetic information other than that required for transposition
44                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

(hopping) from site to site within the genome. The variable patterns of IS
insertion can be used to generate strain-specific "bar codes" for molecular
epidemiological analysis. These codes are relatively stable in M tuberculosis,
but in MAA they exhibit considerable diversity even within a single clinical
isolate (Laurent et al. 2002). IS are thought to be important drivers of genetic
diversification in mycobacteria. When an IS hops into a gene that gene is
usually disrupted and its function is lost. Moreover, genetic recombination
between neighbouring IS can result in large-scale deletions and rearrangements
of genomic DNA. This phenomenon has been shown to play an important role
in the generation of spontaneous "rough" colony type variants of MAA
(Eckstein et al. 2000).
    The positions of insertion elements IS1245 and IS999 (Laurent et al. 2002)
within the MAA strain 104 genome are shown in Figure 4.l. IS999 insertion
sites in three other strains are also shown. Regions of the genome with high IS
concentrations are likely to contain DNA sequences that are not required for life
in at least some environments. An example of such a region is the ssGPL gene
cluster which is deleted in rough colony type variants. These IS-rich regions are
potential hot spots for loss or rearrangement over the course ofMAA evolution.
    A micro array of the MAA genome has been prepared by M. Behr and co-
workers (Sernret et al., submitted manuscript). A micro array is a wafer dotted
with small nucleotide probes, each specific for an individual MAC gene.
Hybridization of a DNA or RNA sample to the array, followed by sophisticated
bioinformatic analysis, reveals the presence or absence of genes or gene
products in the sample. This tool will allow us to rapidly assess and quantify the
genomic diversity found among large numbers of clinical and environmental
isolates. Comparison of gene deletion patterns by "chromosome alignment" may
lead to the identification of genomic signatures characteristic of virulent strains,
a useful outcome for risk assessment. Microarray analysis of conditional gene
expression (RNA samples) during intracellular growth might also reveal
virulence genes.
                         Biology ofwaterbome pathogenic mycobacteria                                      45




                                                 M. avium
                                             104 genome
                                                  5.48 mb




 ssGPL ___ :
  gene
cluster




  ~             IS1245
               insertion in
                                      ....-.        (Outside)              ~          (Inside) IS999
                                                    IS999 insertion                   insertion site in
               strain 104                           site in strain                    other strains
                                                    104

 Figure 4.1 IS1245 and IS999 insertion sites in MAA strains 104, 102, HMC02 and HMC1O.
 Insertion sites of IS1245 and IS999 in strain 104 were mapped by computer analysis of the
 preliminaty 5.48 mb genome sequence generated by the Institute for Genomic Research
(http://www.tigr.org). Positions of these sites are indicated on the outside of the circle. Insertion sites
ofIS999 in strains 102, HMC02 and HMC10 were mapped by inverted PCR and sequencing as
described (Laurent et al. 2002). This strategy yielded positions of the subset ofIS999 insertions that
could be amplified in this fashion. This depended on the random occurrence of specific restriction
endonuclease sites in the genomic regions bordering the insertions. Therefore, the data represent a
random sample ofIS999 insertion sites in these strains.
46                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


4.2.2 The MAP genome
A collaboration to sequence the genome of the virulent bovine MAP isolate K-lO is nearing
completion (http://www.cbc.umn.edwResearchProjectsiAGAClMptblMptbhome.html).
The genome, at 4.8 mb, is 0.7 mb shorter than the MAA strain 104 genome but
remarkably similar in sequence and organization (98% overall homology). The
G+C% content at 69% is also comparable to MAA.
    A comparative alignment of preliminary drafts of the MAP and MAA genomes has
provided some insights into the biological distinctions between the two organisms.
MAA has about 700 kb of sequence not found in MAP, while MAP has about 140 kb
of sequence, containing 60-70 probable genes, not found in MAA. The MAP specific
regions are often located at the same genomic positions as MAA specific regions.
These contain all previously identified MAP specific genes (poupart et al. 1993;
Ellingson et al. 1998; Tizard et al. 1998; Bannantine et al. 2002; Nielsen & Ahrens
2002) and are organized within six large regions ranging from 10 to 60 kb, and several
minor regions of 1 to 5 kb (Bull, unpublished). Many of the MAP specific regions
contain, or are flanked by, remnants of bacteriophage (viral) sequences, suggesting that
they may have been acquired from other bacterial species via viral cross-infection.
MAP appears to have evolved from an MAA-1ike progenitor by a combination of gene
deletion and acquisition (Brennan & Nikaido 1995; Tizard et al. 1998). This model is
supported by more recent microarray analysis of multiple MAA and MAP strains
(Semret et ai, submitted).
    Functional genomic analysis of MAP specific regions will prove useful to
understanding the unique biology of MAP. Computer analysis of these regions has
already identified several genes with high degrees of homology to genes involved in
pathogenicity by other bacteria. A major 60 kb MAP specific region encodes several
gene sets (operons) including membrane transport systems and a novel putative
mycobactin-1ike peptide synthesis pathway that may help to sequester important bacterial
growth factors such as Fe-III and cobalt (Stratmann et al. in press). Systems such as these
that scavenge trace nutrients are often important for the survival of bacteria in
intracellular environments. A cluster of MAP specific genes homologous to mce genes is
present. This is in addition to the common mce genes found in many other mycobacterial
species which may be involved with specific host entry and survival.
    Other MAP specific regions carry putative catalase, peroxidase and nitrile
hydrolase genes associated with protection from free-radical mediated intracellular
killing. One of these regions (previously designated Locus 6) is deleted in some
attenuated (non-virulent) MAP vaccine strains (Hermon-Taylor & Bull 2002).
Additional MAP specific genes that may play roles in virulence are described in
section 4.4.3. The possibility that MAP carries virulence genes not found in MAA is
consistent with the distinctive ecological niche that MAP occupies, namely that of a
chronic persistent pathogen of animals.
                  Biology ofwaterbome pathogenic mycobacteria                         47

   The MAP genome also contains multiple insertion elements including IS1311
(Marsh et al. 1999), ISMav2 (Strommenger et al. 2001) and IS900 (Green et al. 1989).
IS900 is unique to MAP (Hermon-Taylor et al. 2000; Bull et al. 2003a) and is
involved in most of the known diversifications between MAP strains. There is a high
degree of clonality (genetic homogeneity) between different MAP strains which may
be due to the unusually slow growth rate of MAP (22-26 hrs compared with MAA 10-
12 hrs) (Harris & Barletta 2001) and its relatively recent dissemination throughout the
world (Moreira et al. 1999; Pavlik at aI., 1999). Nonetheless, over 30 MAP types with
variations in the genomic insertion positions ofIS900 are known (Bull et al. 2000).


4.2.3 Genomes of other environmental mycobacteria
In addition to MAA and MAP there are two other genome projects that are nearing
completion:      M ulcerans         at   the     Pasteur    Institute   (http://genopole.
pasteur.frlMulclBuruList.html and M marinum at the                     Sanger Centre
(http://www.sanger.ac.uklProjectsIM_marinum). The M marinum genome has been
estimated to be about 6.5 mb long, consistent with extensive metabolic and
environmental versatility. Relative to M ulcerans, M marinum is a genetically
heterogeneous species (Stinear et al. 2000b; Ucko et al. 2002). The M ulcerans
genome is estimated to be smaller, at around 5.8 mb, but a more accurate size
assessment will come with further sequence assembly. The M ulcerans genome is
extraordinarily rich in IS with two different elements (lS2404 and IS2606) accounting
for 10% of the total genome. The biological consequences of the presence of these
high copy number IS are as yet unknown but it seems possible that they may
contribute to the relatively fastidious nature of M ulcerans.
    Recently a very large plasmid in M ulcerans was found to encode all the genes
necessary for the synthesis of mycolactone (Stinear et al. submitted). M ulcerans may
be a clonal derivative of M marinum that arose by the acquisition of a plasmid from
another microorganism combined with the loss of genetic information on the
chromosome. The role that mycolactone plays in the natural ecology of M ulcerans
remains to be determined, but it seems unlikely that its primary role is pathogenesis.
This molecule may confer a fitness advantage for the survival of M ulcerans in a
niche environment such as the salivary glands of aquatic insects. The development of
M ulcerans from an M marinum-like ancestor may prove to be a good illustration of
how significant human pathogens evolve from environmental forebears.
    Currently there is no effort underway to sequence the genome of M intracellulare.
Given the increasing recognition of M intracellulare as a species with distinct (from
MAA) pathobiological characteristics, we believe that this pathogen should be the next
focus of genomic analysis.
48                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


4.3 BACTERIAL PHYSIOLOGY
4.3.1 The cell envelope and its role in virulence and antimicrobial
      resistance
Perhaps the most distinctive feature of mycobacterial physiology is the cell envelope.
The ability of pathogenic mycobacteria to survive in hostile environments such as the
phagocytic vesicles of immune cells may be related in part to cell wall impermeability.
The same is probably true of the pathogen's intrinsic resistance to diverse
antimicrobial agents (Inderlied et al. 1993; Jarlier et al. 1994; Portillo-Gomez et al.
1995; Heifets 1996; Cangelosi et al. 2001).
    The MAC cell wall is a complex array of hydrocarbon chains perforated by porins
through which nutrients and other compounds pass into and out of the cell. The
electron-dense peptidoglycan layer is surrounded by a hydrophobic arabinogalactan-
peptidoglycan-mycolic acid layer characteristic of all mycobacteria. This layer is
surrounded by a second e1ectron-dense layer made up, in part, of ssGPL found only in
MAC (Belisle et al. 1991, 1993; Inderlied et al. 1993; Wayne et al. 1993; Belisle &
Brennan 1994). The ssGPL consists of a core nonspecific GPL modified by serovar-
specific oligosaccharide side chains. The core non-specific GPL which is common to
many environmental mycobacteria has a tetrapeptide structure linked to a 6-deoxy-L-
talose, which in MAC is further modified with variable oligosaccharide structures to
form the ssGPL.
    The synthesis of ssGPL is one the distinguishing characteristics of MAC relative to
M tuberculosis. Genes coding for ssGPL synthesis are clustered in a region spanning
approximately 50 kb of the MAC genome (Eckstein et al. 2000; Laurent et al. 2003).
The ssGPL is one of the major antigens in host environments, and is responsible for the
"watery" (hydrophilic) appearance of MAC colonies in vitro. The pathobiological role of
ssGPL has not been determined. However, these molecules have been reported to
accumulate in the phagosome during intracellular growth contributing to the formation of
a capsule around the bacteria (Tereletsky & Barrow 1983; Rulong et al. 1991). Stable
rough colony type variants that lack GPL frequently arise during extracellular growth,
whereas strains cultivated from patient samples are invariably smooth.


4.3.2 Morphotypic switches
Most MAC isolates form multiple colony types (morphotypes) that vary with regard to
infectivity, susceptibility to antibiotics and ability to grow in various environments.
The transition from the smooth colony type to rough is irreversible. Rough mutants fall
into two categories: those that lack all traces of GPL and those that produce a
lipopeptide core of GPL that is not glycosylated. Both categories result from
spontaneous deletions within the ssGPL cluster (Belisle et al. 1991, 1993). These
                  Biology ofwaterbome pathogenic mycobacteria                           49

deletions are mediated by homologous recombination between neighbouring insertion
elements (Eckstein et al. 2000).
    Additional morphotypic switches in MAC are less well understood. The
transparent-to-opaque switch is reversible at frequencies ranging from 104 to 10-5 per
generation (Woodley & David 1976; Inderlied et al. 1993; Prinzis et al. 1994).
Transparent variants are more virulent and more drug resistant than their opaque
counterparts. Opaque variants grow more quickly on laboratory media but are rarely
isolated from environmental or clinical samples. That may be an artefact of
decontamination protocols applied to clinical and environmental samples, including
sodium hydroxide and CPC, which are toxic to opaque variants. However, MAC
colonies grown directly from the blood of AIDS patients without decontamination are
transparent suggesting that this morphotype is the true form in which the pathogens
existin vivo (Meylan et al. 1990).
    A separate switch, termed red-white, becomes visible when clinical isolates are
grown on agar media containing the lipoprotein stain CR (Cangelosi et al. 1999, 200 I ;
Mukheljee et al. 2001; Laurent et al. 2003). The red to white and opaque to
transparent switches are independent of each other, such that red opaque, red
transparent, white opaque and white transparent forms can be isolated from most
strains. Relative to red variants, white variants are more resistant to multiple antibiotics
in vitro, more common in patient samples and more virulent in disease models. When
stable red variants are inoculated into disease models (mice and human macrophages)
they switch en masse to the white morphotype. This occurs over the course of one or
two generation times consistent with a switch at the level of gene expression rather
than selection of a pre-existing white sUbpopulation. However, red transparent variants
are occasionally recovered from patient samples, and the genome sequence strain
MAA 104 is a stable red variant.
    A gene, crs, has been identified that is required for the synthesis of the major CR
binding site, possibly a cell wall glycolipid (Laurent et al. 2003). We have proposed
that white variants, but not red variants, express surface components that mask
underlying CR binding sites. These components, or components that are co-expressed
in white variants, may also be responsible for the reduced antibiotic susceptibility
associated with the white morphotype (Cangelosi et al. 2001). Consistent with this
model, mutational loss of crs results in reduced CR binding and a white morphotype,
but does not increase multi-drug resistance. Recently, a polyketide synthase (lipid
biosynthetic) gene, pks12, and a second surface-associated gene of unknown function,
Maa2520, were found by mutational analysis to be required for the multi-drug resistant
white morphotype (Cangelosi et al., submitted manuscript). However, mutational
analysis ruled out a role for ssGPL in multi-drug resistance (Laurent et aI., 2003).
    Like other MAC strains, MAP also forms smooth and rough colony type variants
on agar media. Colonies of MAP grow more slowly than those of MAA and
M intracellulare, and only on media supplemented with the siderophore mycobactin.
50                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

An intriguing physiological feature of MAP is its ability to persist intracellularly in a
cell wall deficient form, similar to a spheroplast (Chiodini et al. 1986; Wall et at.
1993). This form is non-acid fast by the ZN method. It is presumed to result from an
induced cessation or radical alteration of cell wall mycolic acid production, and it may
be part of a mechanism for avoiding host immune surveillance. It is not observed in
other MAC. The cell wall deficient form has been found intracellularly in
macrophages associated with the gut wall of up to 92% of patients with CD and 26%
of controls (Sechi et at. 2001; Naser et al. 2002; Bull et al. 2003). Reversion to the
conventional acid-fast vegetative phenotype after prolonged culture (up to two years)
is possible (Chiodini et al. 1984; Schwartze et at. 2000) showing that this morphotypic
switch is not permanent. Cell wall deficient forms have also been shown to persist
intracellularly for more than a year when "fed" to amoebae. It is not certain, however,
if MAP cells divide whilst in this chronic persistent state.


4.3.3 Metabolism and catabolism
The mycobacteria are aerobic organisms. Many environmental species such as
Mfortuitum are fast-growing with in vitro doubling times in the range of 2 hours,
whereas MAC is slow growing with doubling times exceeding 15 hours. Consistent
with its slow growth, MAC has only a single copy of the rrn (ribosomal RNA) operon
and a correspondingly low nbosome copy number.
    MAC can utilize a variety of carbon and energy sources. Growth is stimulated by
glycerol and fatty acids. The availability offatty acids and the ability of the pathogens
to utilize them are thought to be important factors in the colonization of host tissues.
As with M tuberculosis, optimal growth of MAC in vitro is observed on relatively
elaborate media such as the Middlebrook series, supplemented with glycerol, oleic
acid and low purity (96%) BSA. The function of the BSA supplement is not known,
but it is thought to detoxify harmful by-products of fatty acid metabolism. In contrast
to some pathogenic mycobacteria, MAC grows well on minimal media such as
Sauton's, which consists of nothing more than glycerol, citric acid, L-asparagine as a
nitrogen source and trace salts of potassium, maguesium, iron and zinc. Thus the
organisms have comprehensive biosynthetic capabilities, consistent with their ability to
colonize dilute environments.
    There are some interesting exceptions to the rule of nutritional independence in
MAC. In contrast to virulent "white" variants, spontaneously occurring non-virulent
"red" variants of MAA require the presence of BSA for growth in vitro (Millones &
Cangelosi, unpublished results). This observation might help explain the relatively
poor survival of this morphotype in certain environments, including host cells and
tissues (MukheIjee et at. 2001). In contrast to MAA, MAP strains require growth
media supplemented with the siderophore mycobactin, a distinction that has been
useful for bacteriological identification.
                 Biology of waterborne pathogenic mycobacteria                      51


4.4 BIOLOGY OF MAC IN HOST ENVIRONMENTS
4.4.1 Entry and survival in host cells
MAA is thought to enter the human body through the bronchial or intestinal mucosa.
The bacteria are ingested by host macrophages primarily (but probably not
exclusively) via complement receptors and complement component C3-mediated
phagocytosis (Swarz et al. 1988; Bermudez et al. 1990; Schlesinger et al. 1990, 1991).
Complement-mediated phagocytosis does not trigger an oxidative burst within the
macrophage thus facilitating mycobacterial survival after ingestion. Once inside the
non-activated macrophage, MAA prevents fusion between the phagosome in which it
resides and the lysosome thereby escaping the normal lytic functions of the
macrophage (Frehel et al. 1986, 1991; Crowle et al. 1991; de Chastellier et al. 1993;
Sturgill-Koszycki et al. 1994). MAA grows and multiplies within the phagosomal
compartment until the macrophage lyses. If the released bacilli are phagocytosed by
other non-activated macrophages, the cycle of growth, multiplication, release and
phagocytosis continues unabated until the infected host succumbs or mounts an
immune response. However, if MAA is ingested by activated macrophages,
phagosome-lysosome fusion is not impeded and the bacilli are killed. Induction of a
cell-mediated immune response is necessary for controlling the infection and in
severely immunocompromised individuals (e.g. AIDS patients) this type of response
does not function effectively and the infection is not controlled.


4.4.2 MAA genes involved in intracellular life
Understanding the metabolic activities ofMAA during growth in macrophages should
provide clues as to how the bacilli survive in this hostile environment. One approach
has been to analyse global patterns of gene expression during intracellular growth.
Plum and Clark-Curtiss (1994) were the first to use a cDNA subtractive approach to
identifY MAA genes that were up-regulated for expression or uniquely expressed in
bacteria growing within primary human macrophages. A gene designated
macrophage-induced gene (Mig) was identified. The Mig protein is an acyl-Coenzyme
A synthetase that uses saturated medium-chain fatty acids, unsaturated long-chain fatty
acids and some aromatic cmbon acids as substrates (Morsczek et al. 2001). Mig
protein may be involved in the metabolism of fatty acids for synthesis of
mycobacterial lipids during intracellular growth.
    More recently, Hou et al. (2002) used the SCOTS technique to identifY 46 genes
that are up-regulated or uniquely expressed by MAA during growth in human
macrophages. This analysis provided some insights into M avium metabolism during
intracellular growth. For example, both the tricmboxylic acid cycle and the glyoxalate
shunt appeared to function during intracellular growth. The tricarboxylic acid cycle is
the central metabolic pathway responsible for generation of CO2, adenosine
52                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

triphosphate, reduced nucleotides and precursors of several amino acids. The
glyoxalate shunt functions to prevent loss of carbon molecules by bypassing the steps
in which CO 2 is generated. In other bacteria the kinds of carbon sources available
affect the operation of these cycles with the glyoxalate shunt becoming operative when
fatty acids are used as carbon sources. The glyoxalate shunt is not used exclusively but
operates simultaneously with the tricarboxylic acid cycle (Cronan & LaPorte 1996).
    Expression of genes encoding several enzymes involved in biosynthetic pathways
for amino acids and mycolic acids also appeared to be up-regulated during intracellular
growth of MAA (Hou et al. 2002). In addition, genes encoding enzymes involved in
mycobactin biosynthesis were up-regulated (Hou et al. 2002). Mycobactins are
siderophores produced by mycobacteria to enable them to obtain iron, an essential
nutrient for all organisms, but one which is not usually readily available to intracellular
organisms. Another up-regulated gene was a homologue of the M tuberculosis narK3
gene (Hou et al. 2002). This gene codes for a nitrite extrusion protein. Excess nitrite is
toxic to some mycobacteria.
    Several genes that code for proteins involved in regulation of gene expression were
also up-regulated for expression during growth in macrophages. Finally, a number of
genes encoding homologues to M tuberculosis proteins that may be important in
mycobacterial pathogenesis were also observed to be up-regulated in MAA during
growth in macrophages. These included genes belonging to two of the mce operons
and two genes encoding PPE proteins (Hou et al. 2002). Certain mce proteins have
been implicated in entry and intracellular survival (Arruda et al. 1993; Graham &
Clark-Curtiss 1999), while PPE proteins have been postulated to participate in
antigenic variation (Cole et al. 1998).
    Additional global gene expression analyses have targeted proteins. Honer zu
Bentrup et al. (1999) and Sturgill-Koszycki et al. (1994) employed two-dimensional
gel electrophoresis to identifY a protein, isocitrate lyase that is up-regulated for
expression in MAA grown in mouse macrophages. Additional experiments are
necessary to definitively prove that up-regulated proteins are essential for intracellular
life. Moreover, there probably are additional proteins important to intracellular life
which remain to be identified. Nevertheless, valuable information regarding MAA
metabolism during intracellular growth has been obtained. Identification of additional
up-regulated genes will further enhance our understanding ofMAA physiology in this
environmental niche.
    Do all MAA strains express the same genes after phagocytosis by human
macrophages? The MAA strain used for the SCOTS analyses was a serotype 4 strain
isolated from an HN -infected human. Do MAA strains that are able to infect humans
express genes that are not expressed in strains that are not pathogenic in humans?
Answers to these questions may provide better ways to assess the risks of infection by
MAC-contaminated water supplies.
                  Biology ofwaterbome pathogenic mycobacteria                         53


4.43 MAP genes involved in intracellular life
Accumulating evidence supports a role for unique cell wall structures in intracellular
survival and virulence of MAP. A gene designated desAI, which codes for a desaturase
associated with mycobacterial cell wall synthesis (Jackson et al 1997), is intact in 90%
of human isolates but is truncated by the insertion of an IS900 element in all animal and
environmental isolates (Bull et al. 2000). Some animal MAP isolates, when exposed to
long-term intracellular persistence in amoebae, can promote the auto-excision of IS900
from inside the desAI gene thereby restoring its function (Bull, unpublished). The
activation of genes such as des-AI in intracellular environments may therefore be
important factors in MAP pathogenesis.
    Differential expression analysis using a subgenome microarray on intracellular and
extracellular cultured MAP, has highlighted a set of genes, the GS cassette, which make
and modiJY fucose (Bull et al. 2000a) and are up-regulated on cell entry. The cassette is
found on a 9 kb MAP specific region bounded by a repeat sequence. It has a relatively
low G+C% content, suggesting that was acquired horizontally from another bacterial
species. The GS cassette is found in M avium subspecies silvaticum; however, in that
organism the putative fucose acetylation gene is truncated by the insertion ofIS1612, an
element not found in MAP (Bull et al. 2000b). Acetylated fucose as a terminal sugar of
cell wall ssGPL is the defining moiety of serotype 2 in MAA. Homologues of the GS
cassette are also present in Mycobacterium bovis but are deleted in BCG vaccine strains
(Behr et al. 1999). Work is in progress to determine the significance of these
observations relative to MAP cell wall synthesis and virulence.


4.5 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
This chapter presented a broad overview of what is known, and not known, about the
biology of MAC and similar environmental mycobacteria in host and external
environments. The following issues were singled out as priorities for future research.


4.5.1 Diversity
This issue is especially important with regard to MAA and M intracellulare. These
species are versatile and heterogeneous and it is possible that some strains found in the
environment are infectious while others may be relatively harmless. Risk assessment
may be ineffective if it is based on the assumption that all environmental strains are
uniformly infectious. Strain-to-strain diversity can and should be quantified using
available disease models combined with molecular epidemiological and genomic tools
such as microarrays. The results could significantly improve the way we approach MAC
epidemiology and risk assessment.
54                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


4.5.2 Molecular markers of virulence
If environmental MAC isolates are heterogeneous it may be possible to identity markers
of pathogenic strains. If readily detectable such markers could help refine
epidemiological analysis and lead to more accurate methods of risk assessment. Public
health efforts to control MAC exposure will thereby benefit from molecular analysis of
MAC pathogenicity.


4.5.3 Taxonomy
The pathogens we know as MAA, MAP and M intracellulare are distinct in many
significant ways, including environmental niches, host preferences and clinical
manifestations. Recognition of these distinctions is essential to the understanding of the
biology of MAC.


4.5.4 Evolutionary context
Populations of environmental mycobacteria to which humans are exposed do not appear
to have human environments in their recent evolutionary histories. Their pathogenic
capabilities were selected by environmental challenges encountered outside of human
hosts. The ecology of these organisms in their natural habitats must be better understood
if we hope to fully understand their pathogenic capabilities.


4.5.5 Genomic analysis
The impending completion of the genome sequences of several environmental
mycobacteria, combined with tools for global analysis of gene expression such as
microarrays and SCOTS, will greatly improve our understanding of these organisms and
our ability to address the biological issues listed above. Genomic analysis should be
expanded to include M intracellulare and additional environmental mycobacteria.
Comparative genomic analysis of mycobacteria will continue to bolster our
understanding of how envrronmental microorganisms become hrnnan pathogens.


Acknowledgements
Data presented in this chapter were generated with funding from grant Al25767 from
The National Institutes of Health and grant G8E10521 from the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Preliminary MAA genome sequence data was obtained from The
Institute for Genomic Research website at http://www.tigr.org. Sequencing of the
MAA genome was accomplished with support from the National Institutes of Health.
   5
  Analytical methods for the detection
  of waterborne and environmental
  pathogenic mycobacteria
  T. Stinear, T. Ford and V. Vincent




 5.1 INTRODUCTION
This chapter reviews the state-of-the-art methods for the detection of pathogenic
mycobacteria in the environment. It provides a concise review of the literature
surrounding this aspect of mycobacteriology.
    Some unusual features define the genus Afycobacterium. These include a waxy cell
wall made up of long-chain mycolic acids and DNA with a high G+C content.
However, these shared characteristics (discussed in Chapter 4) belie a high degree of
inter-species heterogeneity. Widely varying growth rates, specific growth requirements
and differing natural ecologies are three examples of this heterogeneity (see Chapter
2). It has important consequences for the detection of mycobacterial pathogens in the
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences. Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, 1. Bartram, O. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: 1 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
56                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

environment because it means that general mycobacterial methods must often be
tailored to detect specific pathogens. In mycobacteriology there are no standard
methods.
    Mycobacterial diagnostics have benefited enormously from the many recent
advances in biotechnology. These advances have had the greatest impact at the level of
isolate identification and characterization. Techniques such as IMS, PCR and
automated DNA sequencing are now beginning to form the foundation for modem
mycobacterial analytical methods. However, to a large extent one of the most
important steps in analysis - the isolation in culture of mycobacteria from the
environment - has not significantly changed since the 1950s and 1960s when methods
for chemical treatment of samples to remove background microorganisms were first
implemented. This lack of progress is unfortunate as there are serious issues
surrounding the speed and sensitivity of these culture methods. Furthermore, the
power of the molecular tools now available for modem diagnostics is largely
dependent on the availability of isolates in pure culture. One could pessimistically
summarize this situation as being akin to a present day Formula One racing car
powered by a 19th century steam engine.
    Nevertheless, by using these flawed techniques over 70 mycobacterial species have
been formally recognized and the study of these isolates by molecular genetic methods
has shed considerable light on the population structure ofthe genus mycobacteria and
is dramatically improving our understanding of the relationship between pathogenic
and non-pathogenic mycobacteria. An important consequence of this work is the
discovery of genetic markers of virulence. These markers are discussed later in this
chapter (and in Chapter 4) and they are the basis for modern molecular detection
methods.
    The search for genetic markers has been greatly assisted with the advent of whole-
genome sequencing projects (i.e. detennining the complete DNA sequence of an
organism). As of September 2002, four mycobacterial genomes have been fully
sequenced (a cumulative total of 17 000 000 bp) and there are a further seven currently
in progress (http://wit.integratedgenomics.comlGOLDI). These projects are a
fundamental resource for unlocking the pathways to pathogenesis among the
mycobacteria and in so doing they are revolutionizing mycobacteriology. The full
diagnostic potential afforded by whole genome sequences is still yet to be realized but
significant advances in this area have already begun. Comparative genomic analysis of
the different members within the MTB complex has pennitted identification of a panel
of DNA markers that unequivocally differentiate each sub-species within this very
homogeneous complex (Brosch et al. 2002). Comparisons between complete
mycobacterial genome sequences have also highlighted the mechanisms and the
significant extent to which some members of the genus can evolve. DNA insertions,
deletions and point mutations are important drivers of genome change. IS in particular
mediate many changes within mycobacterial genomes and some of these changes can
                                   Analytical methods                                      57

have profound effects on virulence (see McAdam (2000) for a review of
mycobacterial IS). IS are short stretches of non-essential DNA, around 1.5kb in size,
often repeated many times throughout a genome. They encode a transposase, an
enzyme that permits the sequence to copy itself In this respect IS are said to be mobile
DNA elements. IS have been shown to move between different bacteria and thus they
are a means for the exchange of DNA between bacteria. But despite this potential to
jump across so-called species boundaries some mycobacterial IS have proved to be
useful species and sub-species markers. Examples include ISI245 and ISI3]] for
MAC, IS900 for MAP and IS2404 for M ulcerans. As IS copy themselves within the
genome they can produce a unique and heritable distribution pattern for a particular
strain. Over time this can lead to inter-strain IS variation and it is this variation that has
been extensively exploited for the development of molecular fingerprinting methods.
These methods are discussed in section 5.2.4.
    Our improved understanding of both mycobacterial genetics and ecology has had
obvious implications for those undertaking surveillance studies for these bacteria.
Analysis of only grab samples of water is unlikely to be sufficient to reflect the
mycobacterial composition of the greater environment from which the water came, nor
will such analyses reflect the inherent risk of mycobacterial infection from that
environment. A holistic approach to environmental surveillance is required that draws
on a detailed knowledge of the biology and ecology ofthe mycobacteria.
    Their ubiquitous presence means it is a relatively simple affair to fmd
environmental mycobacteria per se but it is the specific detection of a particular
mycobacterial pathogen that can require a comprehensive understanding of its biology
and ecology, with subsequent modification or development of the detection
methodology. All this knowledge of the organism must be supported by good
epidemiological data. The recent finding of M ulcerans in the salivary glands of
aquatic insects is a useful example of the application of these principles. (Refer to
Chapter 8 for a discussion ofBuruli Ulcer). For 50 years the environmental source of
M ulcerans was unknown despite very good epidemiological evidence linking it to
aquatic environments (Barker 1973). In 1997 an M ulcerans specific IS was
identified, named IS2404, and a highly sensitive PCR test was developed based on this
sequence (Ross et al. 1997a). This test circumvented the need to culture M ulcerans as
a means of demonstrating its presence in the environment. The new PCR was applied
to water and plant samples collected from M ulcerans endemic and non-endemic
areas. PCR-positive samples were obtained only in the endemic regions (Roberts &
Hirst 1997; Ross et al. 1997; Stinear et al. 2000). This was the first direct evidence of
M ulcerans in the environment. Subsequent studies using the same DNA marker
found M ulcerans PCR-positive samples in aquatic insects collected in West Africa
(portaels et al. 1999). Most recently, in a series of experiments that modelled and
tracked the fate of M ulcerans in aquatic insects, Marsollier and co-workers succeeded
58                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

in culturing M ulcerans from the salivary glands of aquatic insects captured from
endemic areas in the Ivory Coast (Marsollier et al. 2002).
   In summary, mycobacteria are not all the same and the efficiency of the many
methods used for their detection is highly variable. A good knowledge of the biology
 and ecology of a target organism using the best available technology is essential to
maximize the chance of detection.


5.2 THE ANALYSIS PROCESS
From the perspective of the water industry there are two general requirements of a
microbiological analytical method, namely to be able to provide data for routine
surveillance (e.g. as part of risk assessments or catchment management
programmes) and to be able to respond quickly to a public health emergency. Each
scenario will require a different approach to analysis.
   Analysis is a multi-step process and the reader is referred to Handbook of Water
Analysis and Standard Methods for a more general introduction to this topic. A
schematic of the analysis pathway for environmental mycobacteria is given in
Figure 5.1. It has been depicted as five distinct phases: (i) sample collection; (ii)
 sample storage; (iii) sample preparation; (iv) detection; (v) result interpretation.




     Fig. 5.1 Flow chart of the analysis process
                                           Analytical methods                                                      59

   The following sections review the various methods that have been developed for
mycobacterial analysis of the environment. A summary of methods has been made
from a representative selection of recent reports that have described the isolation of a
range of both slow and rapid growing mycobacteria from various environmental
sources (Table 5.1). The summary has been constructed following the criteria
outlined in Figure 5.1.

Table 5.1 Methods recently used for the isolation of mycobacteria from the environment

 Sample type                     Method Summary                                                        Reference
 Water (raw and treated):        Sampling: 300 m1 water samples, 4 cm2 biofilm samples.                (Falkinham et
 surface and groundwater         Concentration: centrifugation. Decontamination: CPC,                  al.2001)
 sources. Biofilms: pipes,       0.005%,30 min. Isolation: 7HIO agar (OADC), 37°C.
 water meters                    Detection: representational colony selection, ZN staining,
                                _~l!~=(;l!I~t()PlJ.:li!y,I~~r.~A~C;:~_aJ1..~_s.~lIe!l:~igg
 Water (raw and treated):        Sampling: 1000 ml water samples. Concentration:                       (Le Dantec et
 surface and groundwater         filtration. Decontamination: SDSlNaOH. Isolation:                     al.2002)
 sources                         Lowenstein-Jensen, 37°C. Detection: ZN staining, sub-
                                 culture to purity, 16SrRNA PCR and sequencing, hsp65
                                 PRA
 Water: hospital and             Sampling: 500 m1 water samples. Concentration: 0.45 f.UIl             (peters et al.
 consumer taps                   filtration. Decontamination: CPC, 0.005% 15 min.                      1995)
                                 Isolation: BACTEC and Lowenstein-Jensen, 37°C.
                                 p~t~~~?~:~'?'s.t<!.~igg,~l!~~~l!I~J!Ji~~~<:IlI!p,_
 Water: various sources          Sampling: 25 ml water samples. Concentration:                         (von Reyn et
                                 centrifugation. Decontamination: none used. Isolation:                al.1993)
                                 Tsukamura minimal-Tween80-cycloheximide agar,
                                 37°C. Detection: AFB staining, sub-culture to purity,
                ...... __ ..._ ..... _P.t'!Apr.?~~sJo.!:.M.Af:_.___ ___ ..
 Water (raw and treated):              Sampling: 500 m1 samples. Concentration: 0.45 f.UIl    (Covert et al.
 cold taps, hot taps, ice,             filtration. Decontamination: CPC. Isolation: 7HIO agar 1999)
 showers, bottled water                (cycloheximide), 37°C, 5% CO2 Detection: colony
                                       mOlphology, sub-culture, 16SrRNA PCR and sequencing
 Swimming pools: water, ······S;;;;p~g~500;;I;~;;;pi~~:~;~b~(20-;;;;~:--------· (Leoni et al.
 biofilms                        Concentration: 0.45 f.UIl filtration. Decontamination: CPC            1999)
                                 0.04%, 30 min. Isolation: 7HlO agar, 30°C, 5% CO2
                                 r.?~~!i?~:,~()!()~y!?()!P!J,~l!~~~l!!!lJf.~,~i()~!J~!<:Il!!P
 Water (raw and treated)         Concentration: 0.45 f.UIl filtration. Decontamination: CPC            (Neumann et
                                 0.05% - CPC 0.005% 30 min. Isolation: Lowenstein-                     al.1997)
                                 Jensen, 30°C. Detection: sub-culture based on colony
                              ._typ~()l1?1i}Qllgllr.,!!cf~~~~p~5.:~~:
 Hospital tap water              Sampling: 200 m1 samples. Concentration: centrifugation.              (Chang et al.
                                 Decontamination: not specified. Isolation: Lowenstein-                2002)
                                 !e_!1l;~l1,~?~f:P~t.~<:!i()~:~.?,~l!~::C:l!lttJr.~,~:I'p.~5.:~l3:A.
 Surface water, vegetation,      Concentration: centrifugation, filtration.                            (Stinear et al.
 soil                            Decontamination: !MS, CPC 0.005% 30 min, Isolation:                   2000)
                                 Brown & Buckle agar, 30°C, microaerophilic. Detection:
                                 subculture, AFB, l6SrRNA PCR sequencing
60                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

5.2.1 Sampling
The objective of sampling is to obtain a sample from a particular
environment that can be said to represent that environment. Given the
stochastic nature of bacterial populations how can this be achieved? There is
no simple answer to this question. Sampling demands at least that the
researcher clearly define the question(s) being asked in any investigation.
Consideration must be given to both spatial and temporal aspects of a
particular environment. Thus the issues of sampling frequency and sample
type will vary with each situation. Sampling an aquatic environment requires
collection of more than just bulk water samples. The habitats of
mycobacteria are diverse (refer to Chapter 3 for a review of the different
sources of mycobacteria). As an example of this diversity, a recent survey of
several drinking-water distribution systems has shown that pipe biofilms are
probably the most significant sources of mycobacteria within a drinking-
water supply. Conservative concentration estimates of 4300 slow growing
mycobacteria per cm2 were reported (Falkinham et al. 2001). This study and
others (Schulze-R6bbecke & Fischeder 1989), suggests that efforts to
examine the risk posed by mycobacteria in drinking-water supplies should
focus more heavily on pipe biofilms than bulk water samples. Biofilms can
be sampled either by collecting swabs from which mycobacteria may be
recovered by culture or DNA methods. Alternatively, the biofilm can be
kept intact and a portion embedded. This portion can then be thin-sectioned
and the mycobacteria analysed in situ using techniques discussed in section
5.2.4.1. Given the ubiquity of slow growing mycobacteria in both potable
and hot water systems, research is increasingly focused on monitoring
growth of these organisms using recirculating or by-pass systems. This
parallels other trends in drinking-water microbiology research, where it is
realized that accurate simulations of drinking-water systems are necessary to
examine pathogen survival and proliferation in biofilms and to implement
control methods.
   Considerable research efforts are in place to optimize these simulations.
The most accurate simulations are those involving removable coupons that
are placed in by-pass systems plumbed directly into a hot or cold water
supply. The primary method of sampling is through removal of coupons and
either direct DNA extraction or embedding followed by cryosectioning and
imaging with fluorescent labelled antibodies.
   Developed at Montana State University, the cryosectioning technique has
been widely applied to imaging mixed species biofilms (Yu et al. 1994;
Murga et al. 1995). Its application to dual species biofilms (Pseudomonas
aeruginosa and M avium) grown in cold water recirculating systems has
                              Analytical methods                              61

shown preferential survival of M avium at the metal coupon-biofilm
interface (Ford 1999). Research is now focused on optimized ISH methods
to visualize mycobacterial species in biofilms (refer to section 5.2.4.1).
   Methods have also been described for sampling aerosols (Wendt et al.
1980). The following list is a summary of potential mycobacterial
environments with references to reports concerning sampling each of them.
In short, everything must be considered as a potential mycobacterial habitat:
     • aerosols (Wendt et al. 1980)
     • air/water interface (Falkinham 2003)
     • biofilms (Schulze-Robbecke & Fischeder 1989)
     • insect populations (Marsollier et al. 2002)
     • animal populations (Fischer et al. 2000)
     • vegetation (Stinear et al. 2000)
     • soil (Iivanainen et al. 1999b)
     • food (Argueta et al. 2000)
     • water (refer to Table 5.1)

5.2.2 Sample storage
Several studies have been performed to examine the effects of different
storage conditions on the viability of mycobacteria collected from the
environment. Iivanainen et al. (1995) demonstrated that long-term storage
at -80°C of crude cell-concentrates obtained from water samples without
the addition of cryoprotectant reduced levels of background bacteria and
enhanced the recovery of mycobacteria. However, it is important to
understand something of the physiology of individual mycobacteria as some
species show significant changes to their cell wall or lose viability as a
consequence of freezing (Thoen et al. 1977; Silva et al. 1989).


5.2.3 Sample preparation
This step incorporates sample concentration, decontamination and
purification. It is usual to analyse sample volumes up to one millilitre. If the
concentration of mycobacteria in a given sample is expected to be low, as is
often the case with treated water samples, then it may be necessary to
analyse up to 1000 ml sample volumes. Either filtration through 0.45 ~m
membranes or centrifugation methods are employed to concentrate
mycobacterial cells in samples of this volume prior to analysis.
   Sample decontamination methods have been designed to remove or
reduce the non-mycobacterial microbial flora in a sample. These techniques
utilize the relative resistance of mycobacteria to chemical treatments such as
62                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

combinations of acid/alkali or detergents. Several studies have been
conducted to try and determine the optimum decontamination method. There
is no clear consensus as to the optimum method; however, treatment with
the detergent CPC (du Moulin & Stottmeier 1978; Fischeder et al. 1991) has
repeatedly been shown to promote the recovery of a wide range of
mycobacteria with low rates of background contamination (Table 5.1). The
comparative efficacy of agents such as CPC and NaOH is greatly influenced
by the contact time and concentrations used (Hunter et al. 2001). Thus it
may be necessary for investigators to test empirically the relative resistance
of different mycobacteria under authentic test conditions before
commencing any environmental analyses (i.e. conduct seeding experiments
to determine the best decontamination regime in a given sample matrix for a
given group of mycobacteria).
   Sometimes it is insufficient just to reduce the background micro flora. To
enable the detection of mycobacterial pathogens such as MAP and
M ulcerans in the environment it has been necessary to develop methods
that very specifically enrich for target cells. A recent development has been
IMS. This technique uses I-211m paramagnetic beads coated with anti-
mycobacterial antibodies. These antibody-coated beads are incubated with a
sample concentrate, typically in a 1.5 ml tube. The beads specifically bind
mycobacterial cells. A magnet is then applied to the tube and a complex of
magnetic beads and mycobacterial cells form on the side of the tube. This
complex can then be decontaminated by a low concentration CPC treatment
and then used as the inoculum in mycobacterial culture media or subjected
to a diagnostic PCR. This method has been used successfully to isolate
M ulcerans in culture from the environment (Marsollier et al. 2002). It has
also been used to detect M tuberculosis, M avium and MAP (Li et al. 1996;
Mazurek et al. 1996; Grant et al. 1998; Mason et al. 2001). The general
approach is summarized in Figure 5.2. There are variations on this method;
for example, "indirect capture" where the antibodies are first incubated with
the sample before the addition of the magnetic beads. The success of IMS is
dependent on the specificity of the anti-mycobacterial antibodies used to
coat the magnetic beads. Improvements here will see the more widespread
application of IMS in mycobacterial diagnostics.
   Future decontamination protocols may focus on the use of free-living
aquatic amoebae as a means for purifying and isolating mycobacteria as they
are natural hosts for many mycobacteria (Steinert et al. 1998).
                                      Analytical methods                           63


                       ..
                       ..
                            ~
                                /Mycobacterial target cells

                            • , -----
                                 ___ 0 t h
                                         er mlcroorgamsms
                                            ·         .


                             Antibody-coated magnetic beads




                                     Mycobacteria bound to the
                                     magnetic beads




     ~
             ..~ . , Magnet applied and
                    '"        contaminants removed by
    'f:7                      washing
  ~~tJ
                                  Magnet removed, solid phase
       n                          resuspended and used to
        u                         inoculate mycobacterial
                                  culture media


Fig. 5.2 The basic principle ofIMS



5.2.4 Detection
Detection methods can be subdivided into three categories. First level detection
refers to those methods involved with primary isolation; second level detection
refers to methods that provide genus and species identification; and third level
detection refers to methods used for sub-species discrimination and molecular
epidemiology.

5.2.4.1 Detection (first level)
There are three general approaches for the detection of mycobacteria in the
environment.
   The first approach is to identify the mycobacteria in a sample by culture
enrichment. That is, take a sample, perform some pre-treatments (such as those
described above) to try and remove other microorganisms and then enrich for
64                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

the mycobacteria using artificial media. Mycobacterial-like colonies can then be
confirmed using a number of techniques. These types of methods are said to be
quantitative because the output is cfu per volume analysed.
    There have been several comparisons of different media for the recovery of
mycobacteria from the environment. The conclusions from different studies are
difficult to compare and often contradictory. An extensive and recent review of the
literature in this field concluded that, depending on the mycobacterial species under
investigation, mUltiple types of media should be used and incubation conditions
should be varied, such as medium pH, temperature and atmospheric CO 2
concentration (Hunter et al. 2001). In general, combinations of egg-based (e.g.
Lowenstein-Jensen agar slopes) and defined salt media (Middlebrook 7HlO agar
with OADC supplement), with lower incubation temperatures (around 32°C) seem
to promote the recovery of the widest range of mycobacteria. More information
regarding different mycobacterial culture media can be found in Brown & McNeil
(2003). To suppress fungal overgrowth and other microbial overgrowth, agents such
as cycloheximide or malachite green are often added to the media. Antibiotics, such
as a mixture of polymyxin B, amphotericin B, nalidixic acid, trimethoprim and
azlocillin (P ANT A supplement), are frequently added to liquid media. It is regularly
used in clinical mycobacteriology in conjunction with the BACTEC medium
(Becton Dickinson, Sparks, Maryland, USA). For the recovery of some
mycobacterial species it is necessary to use media containing specific growth factors
such as mycobactin, a siderophore required for the growth of MAP.
    It is well recognized that culture enrichment methods for mycobacteria are
inefficient and are hindered by many factors. The differences in growth rates
between mycobacteria in artificial media are very large. Rapid growers such as
M smegmatis double in 2 hours compared to slow growers such as M ulcerans that
double in 48 hours or, at the extreme of the spectrum of growth rates, M leprae
which does not grow at all in axenic culture. Thus a major issue for culture methods
is the overgrowth of slowly growing mycobacteria by faster growing mycobacteria
or by other microorganisms. Chemical decontamination methods were developed to
reduce overgrowth problems but these methods are necessarily harsh and there are
always a percentage of mycobacterial cells destroyed during the decontamination
process. Mycobacterial reduction levels of 1-2 log are not uncommon (Dundee et al.
2001; Le Dantec et al. 2002a). There are also no selective media for mycobacteria in
the same way that there are for members of the enterobacteriacae. There have been
some modifications made to try and improve selectivity for particular species such
as MAC (George & Falkinham 1986) but several method comparisons have
suggested that less selective methods perform better (Neumann et al. 1997). In
addition to the problems of overgrowth there are always the issues of mycobacteria
in a viable but non-culturable state (Kazda 2000). Furthermore, colony conftrmation
is both subjective and laborious. So even though one obtains a numerical result there
                                Analytical methods                                 65

are so many accumulated uncertainties that it is difficult to defme these methods as
quantitative. Despite these problems a wide range of known (M gordonae,
M chelonae, M gastri, M kansasii, M jortuitum, M avium, M jlavescens,
M malmoense, M xenopi, M mucogenicum, M intracellulare, M peregrinum,
M scrojulaceum,       M shimoidei,      M szulgai,     M haemophilum,      M terrae,
M abscessus, M aurum, M phlei, M marinum, M sphagni, M jarcinogenes,
M nonchromogenicum and M hodleri) and many unidentified mycobacterial
species have been recovered by the techniques reviewed in Table 5.1, suggesting
that these methods have some merit.
    An alternative approach, which overcomes these problems of culture isolation, is
to use direct DNA detection methods. These are relatively rapid techniques that
indicate the presence of mycobacteria by detecting signature mycobacterial DNA
sequences without a prior culture enrichment step. Result turnaround times can be
hours instead of weeks or months as is often the case with culture methods. The
general approach is to take a sample, extract all DNA present in that sample and
then identifY in that pool of DNA, specific mycobacterial sequences. However, the
concentration of mycobacterial DNA in environmental samples is too low to be
detected directly, so peR has been used to amplifY target mycobacterial DNA
sequences to detectable levels (Wang et al. 1996; Stinear et al. 2000; Marsollier et
al.2002).
   A critical point in this type of analysis is the primary DNA extraction step. The
mycobacterial cell wall is a lipid-rich envelope that resists common bacterial cell
lysis treatments such as NaOHlSDS combinations. Optimal protocols for extraction
of mycobacterial nucleic acids have been developed recently and shown to permit
the detection of less than 10 bacterial cells in complex sample matrices such as soil
and faeces (Stinear et al. 2000; Bull et al. 2003a). These methods use high-speed
cell disintegrators to disrupt mycobacterial cells and liberate the nucleic acids.
Stinear et al. (2001) have published a detailed protocol for the detection of
mycobacterial DNA in plant, water and soil samples.
    Several years ago peR screening of environmental samples was dogged by
problems of poor sensitivity due to inhibition of the Taq polymerase by ubiquitous
environmental compounds, such as humic and fulvic acids. peR inhibition is no
longer the significant issue it was as there are several technologies now available to
remove these contaminants (Rochelle 2001). However, direct DNA detection
methods have their limitations. No isolate is recovered and one can only detect short
stretches of DNA, thus the amount of genetic information obtained is limited. There
is also the issue of detecting dead cells or remnant DNA sequences. Direct DNA
detection does have the advantage of giving an absolute indication ofthe presence or
absence of mycobacteria in a given sample and can be quantitative when used in
conjunction with a most probable number format (Stinear et al. 2000) or with
quantitative peR (MacGregor et al. 1999).
66                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    The third approach to first level detection is ISH. A sample is immobilized (such
as a biofilm sample) and then probed for mycobacteria using either antibodies
(Naser et al. 2002), or short DNA or RNA sequences (oligonucleotide probes) that
have been labelled fluorescently or by some other means. The samples are then
visualized by epifluoresence microscopy. By careful design of the probes one can
detect at the genus level or at the species level. These methods have the advantage of
allowing one to visualize the mycobacteria in situ. These techniques work very well
for other bacteria and show great promise for mycobacteria but they are still under
extensive development. ISH with oligonucleotide probes for the detection of
mycobacteria show poor detection sensitivity (Stender et al. 1999a). This is thought
to be due to problems with the poor penetrability of the hydrophilic probes through
the lipid-rich mycobacterial cell wall. Some recent studies have shown successful
ISH detection of mycobacteria with peptide nucleic acid probes (hydrophobic, DNA
analogue probes) (Stender et al. 1999; Zerbi et al. 2001).

5.2.4.2 Detection (second level)
This is the primary identification step and ten years ago this category would have
included combinations of techniques such as microscopy, biochemical ID methods
or cell wall lipid analysis by HPLC. Nowadays, these techniques, with the exception
of microscopy, have been almost completely replaced by molecular genetic
methods. Unlike the other techniques, genetic methods are independent of growth
rate and independent of phenotype. Assuming appropriate DNA sequences are
analysed then one can identify all known mycobacterial species and readily discern
the presence of new ones. Thus, genetic methods offer greater speed, accuracy and
precision. A basic flow chart of this process is given in Figure 5.3, linking PCR-
based identification of mycobacterial DNA sequences with the culture enrichment
and the direct DNA isolation methods. After obtaining pure culture isolates by
culture enrichment, each colony is subjected to ZN stain, which is a stain for cell
wall acid fastness. This is a rapid and cost-effective screen with a high negative
predictive value that eliminates many non-mycobacteria. ZN-positive isolates can
then be screened for mycobacterial DNA sequences by PCR. For direct DNA
detection methods, the purified DNA is subjected directly to PCR. It is common at
this stage to use mycobacterial genus-specific primers based on the 16SrRNA gene
(Boddinghaus et al. 1990a) or on the hsp65 gene (Plikaytis et al. 1992). The type of
PCR performed is dependent on the goals of the investigation. It may be a PCR
designed to detect a particular pathogen, such IS900 to detect MAP, or a genus-level
PCR to detect all mycobacteria, or a combination ofPCR tests.
                                    Analytical methods                                  67

                 A
                                                                B

         (;m~                                                Q
                •+
         Single colony selected


        l\.1icros~ain)
                                                                ...
                                                                .
                                                      Total DNA extracted


                                                         Purifi cation of
                                                       mycobacterial DNA
              A~-   ..
       (Not mycob acteria)
                           ~AFB +


                                       ~
                         PCR with specific primers


                                       ~
                                       .
                                     PCR+

                                Mycobacteria
                                                               .
                                                             PCR-


                                                      Not mycobacteria
 Fig. 5.3 Flow chart for the second level detection of mycobacteria following (A) culture
 isolation or (B) direct DNA detection

5.2.4.2.1 Genus and species identification
 The 16SrRNA gene is the most widely used target for genus and species level
 identification. The complete DNA sequence of this gene (approximately 1500
 bp) has been extensively studied and compared among many organisms.
 Sequences have been identified that are conserved among all mycobacteria but
 differ to those in other bacteria. These sequences have been used for genus
 level identification; usually by amplification of a 1030 bp product
(Boddinghaus et al. 1990a). The detection of this product indicates the
presence of mycobacteria. The region of the 16SrRNA gene amplified
encompasses two hypervariable regions, A and B. By subjecting the 1030 bp
peR to nucleotide sequence analysis and then comparing the resulting
sequences of the two regions to those obtained from reference strains, an
isolate can be readily classified or associated with a species or species
complex.      There is now a large worldwide, searchable database of
mycobacterial 16SrRNA gene sequences (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).This
68                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

repository of sequences forms the basis for mycobacterial systematics.
However, the mycobacteria are unusual in that, compared to other bacteria,
there is a very high degree of sequence conservation of the 16SrRNA gene.
Indeed, there are several examples of distinct species such as M gastri and
M kansasii, and M ulcerans and M marinum that share identical 16SrRNA
sequences through their A and B hypervariable regions. One very important
consequence of this is that it is rarely possible to identify a mycobacterial
isolate based on the 16SrRNA sequence alone, as sequence identity - whilst
indicating an obviously close evolutionary relationship - does not infer species
identity. Other conserved genes such as hsp65 (Plikaytis et al. 1992), rpoB
(Lee et al. 2000), dnaJ (Inyaku et al. 1993), sodA (Zolg, 1994), gyrE (Kasai et
al. 2000) or intergenic regions such as the 16S-23 S ITS (Roth et al. 1998)
have been used as alternative diagnostic targets in an attempt to find
sequences with greater polymorphism than the 16SrRNA gene.
    The hsp65 gene has proved to be a very useful target in this respect
because, among many mycobacterial species and species complexes, it has a
shown a greater amount of sequence diversity than 16SrRNA sequences
(Devallois et al. 1997). A very widely used test is hsp65 PCR restriction
enzyme analysis (hsp65 PRA). The principle of this test is quite simple. A 439
bp fragment is amplified from the hsp65 gene. The DNA sequence of the PCR
product is then interrogated by restriction enzyme digestion with two
enzymes, HaeIII and EstEll and the products of the digestion reaction are
separated and visualized by gel electrophoresis. The pattern of bands obtained
is then compared with the banding patterns obtained from reference strains. A
website has been established that contains a database of hsp65 PRA patterns
to assist with species identification (http://www.hospvd.ch/prasite). Many
mycobacteria, including M avium, M fortuitum, M gordonae, M kansas ii,
M absecuss, M perigrinum and M chelonae, can be recognized by their
unique banding pattern. In some cases there is sufficient diversity within this
region to identify multiple alleles within a species (da Silva Rocha et al.
2002). PRA is a rapid and relatively inexpensive diagnostic tool. However,
not all mycobacteria can be distinguished by this technique such as the
M tuberculosis complex, or M marinum and M ulcerans.
    Modern automated DNA sequencing methods have made it possible to
rapidly determine the nucleotide sequence of short stretches of DNA. One can
rapidly sequence the 439 bp PCR product from the hsp65 gene, even for a
large number of isolates. This approach reveals all the potential nucleotide
polymorphisms within this region and thus offers an even higher level of
discrimination than PRA (Ringuet et al. 1999). In a recent study of 273
clinical and environmental MAC isolates, hsp65 sequencing revealed 18
different hsp65 alleles and 54 different polymorphic sites (Smole et al. 2002).
                             Analytical methods                            69

Apart from demonstrating the extraordinary genetic diversity among MAC
isolates, this study also clearly demonstrated the power of DNA sequencing to
unambiguously define the true relationship between isolates.
   Single gene analyses such as these have their limitations, as the level of
sequence conservation between some species is so high that there is
insufficient intra-gene variation to provide discrimination. Again, as for
hsp65 PRA, M marinum and M ulcerans are examples of this category as a
recent study of a large number of M marinum fish isolates demonstrated
(Ucko et al. 2002). MLST is a technique that analyses the nucleotide
sequence of several genes. This resolves many of the issues surrounding
discrimination between species. MLST is discussed in more detail in the
following section, 5.2.4.3.5.

5.2.4.2.2 Commercial tests for genus and species identification
Some of the DNA sequences described above have been used to develop
commercial tests for rapid, species-level identification of mycobacteria. The
INNO-LiP A Mycobacteria kit (lnnogenetics, Ghent, Belgium) is a reverse
line-blot hybridization assay that uses a panel of different probes, based on
species-specific sequence variations in the 16S-23S ITS region, to identify
several different mycobacteria (Suffys et al. 2001). The test is in a
convenient format but there are several instances where the probes cross-
hybridize with other species because of insufficient sequence variation or
polymorphism within the ITS. Other commercial DNA-based detection kits
include Accuprobe, a DNA probe system based on the detection of
16SrRNA molecules. The tests are performed directly on isolates obtained
from either solid or liquid media. The test is simple and rapid but, as the
probes are based on highly conserved sequences, cross-hybridization does
occur and can give false positive results.

5.2.4.2.3 Pathogen-specific PCR tests
Some DNA sequences, such as certain IS, have been shown to be markers
for pathogenic strains or at least potentially pathogenic strains. The DNA
targets DTl and DT6 are often used to detect MAC as these sequences have
been shown to be present in all members of the complex (Thierry et al.
1993) but absent from other species. A DNA fragment cloned in the plasmid
p6123 has been shown to be a specific marker for M kansasii (Yang et al.
1993; Picardeau et at. 1997a). IS2404 is a high copy number IS in
M. ulcerans that is a highly specific and sensitive target for this species
(Ross et al. 1997a). Similarly IS900 has been shown to be a very useful
marker for the detection of MAP (Hermon-Taylor et al. 1990). Table 5.2
contains the primer sequences for these different PCR tests.
70                        Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Table 5.2 Primer sequences for mycobacterial pathogen-specific peR tests

 Species         Target    Primer    Sequence S' - 3'                Size     Reference

 M ulcerans      1S2404    MUS       AGCGACCCCAGTGGATTGGT            492bp    (Stinear et al
                                                                              1999)
                           MU6       CGGTGATCAAGCGTTCACGA
 MAC             DTl       AV6       ATGGCCGGGAGACGATCTATGC          666bp    (Devallois et
                                     GGCGTAC                                  al. 1997a)
                           AV7       CGTTCGATCGCAGTTTGTGCAG
                                     CGCGTACA
 MAC             DT6       IN38      GAACGCCCGTTGGCTGGCCATT          187 bp   (Devallois et
                                     CACGAAGGAG                               al.1997a)
                           IN41      GCGCAACACGGTCGGACAGGC
                                     CTTCCTCGA
 MAP             1S900     TJI       GCTGATCGCCTTGCTCAT                       (Bull et al.
 (nested PCR)                                                                 2003a)
                           TJ2       CGGGAGTTTGGTAGCCAGTA
 2nd round for             TB        CAGCGGCTGCTTTATATTCC            294bp
 TJIITJ2
                           TJ4       GGCACGGCTCTTGTTGTAGT
 M kansasii      p6123     Kl        GTGCCACACCGACGTTGC              268bp    (picardeau et
                                                                              al.1997a)
                           K2        GGTAGTGGGCTCGGATATGGA


5.2.4.3 Detection (third level)
This section is concerned with the methods that are used to analyse strain variation.
These methods are an important component of the techniques used to investigate the
epidemiology of mycobacterial diseases. A significant research effort has been put
into this area as people try to address the key question: "is this strain the pathogenic
strain?" Traditional techniques such as biotyping, serotyping and phagetyping have
now been replaced by DNA methods. The aim of these methods is to try and find
regions of DNA difference between strains. For mycobacteria the following
approaches have been used successfully.

5.2.4.3.1. IS restriction fragment length polymorphism
As discussed earlier, IS are short stretches of DNA that have the ability to copy
themselves in a random or semi-random fashion. This means that they are often
present in multiple copies in a bacterial chromosome and the pattern of IS
distribution can vary significantly from one strain to the next (see Chapter 4). By
using restriction enzymes to specifically cut the bacterial chromosome into
fragments, size-separating those fragments by gel electrophoresis, and then probing
the fragments with a labelled copy of the IS, it is possible to obtain an IS banding
pattern or fingerprint for that strain. This technique is used for several environmental
mycobacteria. Normally, MAC isolates can be readily discriminated by RFLP
                                Analytical methods                                 71

analysis using ISI245 and ISI3II (Guerrero et al. 1995), and standardized protocols
have been developed (van Soolingen 1998). M xenopi isolates have been typed
using ISI395-RFLP but this species displays limited polymorphism (picardeau et af.
1996). Significant polymorphism was discovered among M gordonae strains typed
using ISI5IIIISI512-RFLP (Picardeau et af. 1997).

5.2.4.3.2 Pulsed-jield gel electrophoresis
PFGE is a technique that permits very large DNA fragments to be separated and
visualized. Bacterial DNA specially prepared in agarose plugs to prevent shearing is
digested with rare-cutting restriction enzymes. This results in a pool of 10-20 DNA
fragments that are then separated using a special electrophoresis apparatus that size-
separates DNA in an alternating electrical field. It is widely used in bacterial
molecular epidemiology and especially in mycobacteriology. It does not require any
prior knowledge of a particular strain, such as the presence of repetitive IS. It has
been used to type many species of mycobacteria. The preparation of the agarose-
embedded DNA can be problematic. Clumping of cells and subsequent difficulties
in standardizing cell lysis efficiencies can lead to dramatic differences in DNA yield
and quality between preparations. Recent advances have been made to try and tackle
this problem (Hughes et af. 2001) by culturing the bacteria under constant, stirred
agitation. A significant drawback of PFGE is that while it can reliably demonstrate
strain relatedness, the converse is not true: large chromosome rearrangements can
readily occur and produce very different PFGE profiles between otherwise highly
related strains.

5.2.4.3.3 Inter-insertion sequence polymerase chain reaction
Some mycobacterial species, such as MAC, contain multiple copies of different IS.
Different strains have varying distances between the IS copies, depending on the
pattern of distribution of each IS within that strain. Inter-IS PCR uses PCR to
amplify between adjacent copies of different IS. Outward facing primers are
designed to each IS type and a PCR is perfonned on genomic DNA extracted from
the isolate. The resulting amplified DNA fragments are separated and visualized by
gel electrophoresis. This method is rapid and simple to perfonn. It is used for
genotype analysis of MAC by targeting ISI245 and ISJ311 (Picardeau & Vincent
1996) and for M ulcerans by targeting IS2404 and IS2606 (Stinear et af. 2000a). It
also has the advantage of not requiring a high concentration or high quality DNA.
Using this technique, it has been possible to genotype strains of M ulcerans directly
from tissue specimens (Stinear et al. 2000a).
72                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

5.2.4.3.4 Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)
This technique uses short oligonucleotides of random sequence in a low stringency
PCR reaction to produce a strain-specific pattern of PCR fragments after gel
electrophoresis. It is a rapid test that, like PFGE, requires no prior knowledge of the
strain. RAPD has been used relatively widely and has shown utility in outbreak
investigations (Zhang et al. 2002). There are issues surrounding the reproducibility
of this method but attempts have been made to try and standardize the procedure
(Ramasoota et al. 2001).

5.2.4.3.5 Multi-locus sequence typing
All the techniques discussed thus far in this section have one major limitation in
common. They all rely on producing DNA bands on electrophoretic gels and then
comparing the bands obtained with one strain with those obtained from another.
Strain relatedness is inferred by noting the number of shared bands; the more shared
bands, the more similar the strains and vice-versa. Electrophoresis is a difficult
method to standardize as it is influenced by many parameters, such as sample
quality, agarose quality, agarose concentration, buffer composition, running times,
apparatus, voltage, etc. Even within the same laboratory it is difficult to compare the
banding patterns obtained from one experiment with those obtained from the next.
Genotyping methods are now moving away from these approaches and new
techniques are being developed that offer high levels of discrimination,
reproducibility and portability between laboratories.
   MLST is a recently developed technique, widely used now for bacterial
molecular epidemiological and population genetics studies (Clarke 2002). The
technique is analogous to Multi-Locus Enzyme Electrophoresis except that the
nucleotide sequences for the genes of housekeeping enzymes are determined rather
than looking for differences in the electrophoretic mobility of the enzymes
themselves. This technique identifies unique combinations of alleles. A strain
displaying a unique allele combination is assigned a sequence type (analogous to a
genotype).
   The method is quite straightforward. As described for l6SrRNA and hsp65
sequencing, DNA is extracted from a strain and then PCR is used to amplify specific
gene sequences of approximately 500 bp. It is usual to select seven or more distinct
loci. The more loci that are analysed, the greater the level of discrimination. The
products are then subjected to nucleotide sequencing and then sequence
comparisons are made using combinations of alignment and phylogenetic software.
MLST has many advantages over other typing methods; in particular it provides
unambiguous data that is readily standardized, easily transferred and compared
between laboratories. MLST has not yet been widely used for the analysis of
mycobacteria but one recent study, examining the relationship between M ulcerans
and M marinum, demonstrated the power of this approach. MLST analysis at 7 loci
                                Analytical methods                                 73

of 20 strains of M ulcerans and 22 strains of M marinum provided a means to
discriminate not only between the species but also within the species (Stinear et al.
2000b). Future research must be directed toward developing a pan-mycobacterial
MLST scheme. Such a scheme would be the basis for examining the fundamental
relationship between all members of the genus.


5.3 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
The mass of information and information potential presented by the availability of
whole genome sequences for the mycobacteria means that we will soon have access
to very intimate details regarding the biology of the genus.           Mycobacterial
diagnosticians must be prepared to use this data to develop specific tests and testing
strategies for specific mycobacteria. Information gleaned from genome analyses
about the metabolic pathways of a particular species could be used to design better,
more selective media or isolation conditions; for example, culturing under anaerobic
conditions on a defined substrate medium. New technology such as high-throughput
DNA sequencing will continue to promote rapid changes in laboratory method
manuals. But traditional microbiology still has its place and must not be overlooked
by the glamour of molecular methods. Research focused on environmental
modelling of mycobacterial habitats has been shown to be a potent tool to
understand the ecology of mycobacterial pathogens. The continuation ofthese types
of studies, supported by the best available diagnostic technology and epidemiology
will be the key to understanding and controlling the spread ofPEM.
6
The Mycobacterium avium
subspecies paratuberculosis
problem and its relation to the
causation of Crohn disease
J. Hermon- Taylor and F.A.K. El-Zaatari




6.1 MYCOBACTERIUM AVIUM SUBSPECIES
    PARATUBERCULOSIS
MAP is a member of the M avium complex. A genotypic definition of MAP
and its distinction from other MAC is given in Chapter 4. MAP is, however,
also defined phenotypically by its specific ability to cause chronic inflammation
of the intestine in many species. MAP is a small mycobacterium of about
0.5 /-Lm by 1-2 /-Lm and is an obligate intracellular pathogen. Bovine strains of
MAP, which can usually be isolated in laboratory culture, grow much more

© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, O. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: 1 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
                         MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                                    75

slowly than other MAC. They may take an initial 16 weeks to produce visible
colonies on primary cultures but can take much longer. MAP also requires
exogenous mycobactin an iron-transport protein for in vitro growth. On solid
media such as Middlebrook 7H 11, MAP colonies appear rough and translucent;
on Herrold's media containing egg yolk they are smooth and opaque (Fig 6.1 A).
As the cultures become older and the medium dries the colonies take on a
crumbly appearance. Culture conditions have a substantial effect on MAP
phenotype and resistance (Sung & Collins 2003). In liquid media MAP grows in
characteristic tight clumps (Fig 6.1 B). In laboratory culture most of the
microbial cells stain red by the ZN reagent (Fig 6.1 C). However, this classical
mycobacterial image is not the only form these pathogens can adopt. MAP is
phenotypically versatile and can switch to a tough ZN-negative form in which it
is invisible by ordinary light microscopy in infected tissues. Furthermore, as
with some other mycobacteria, MAP can shut down into latency in which state
it differs both functionally and in its physical properties from activated MAP
cells, especially in its resistance to lysis and the subtleties of its interaction with
the immune system. MAP is historically difficult to isolate, and strains from
sheep or humans may require months or years of incubation before their gradual
emergence becomes visible. Many strains of MAP cannot be grown at all.
Conventional laboratory culture is not therefore, a consistently reliable method
for detecting or assessing the viability of these difficult pathogens.



                                                                      "




                                                                                               ...,.
Fig. 6.1 A: Smooth oolonies of a bovine strain of MAP after 10 weeks of culture on a Herrold's media
oontaining egg yolk slope in a sealed tube. B: Bovine MAP after 10 weeks of culture in MGIT liquid
medium (Becton Dickinson) showing characteristic clumping. C: Microsoopic appearance of a bovine
MAP strain from liquid medium showing the red acid a1oohol-fust ZN staining typical of myoobacteria
in bacillary form. (See also colour plate section between pages 82 and 83).


6.2 MAP INFECTION AND JOHNE DISEASE IN
    DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK
MAP was first identified in Germany in 1895 at the Veterinary Pathology Institute
in Dresden by Professor lohne and Dr Frothingham (lohne & Frothingham 1895).
76                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

The organism was causing chronic inflammation of the intestine in a cow. The
condition became known as 10hne Disease. Detailed descriptions of the
clinicopathological features of JD and of MAP infection in animals are presented in
several reviews (Doyle 1956; Buergelt et at. 1978; Riemann & Abbas 1983;
Chiodini et a/.1984a; Cocito et at. 1994; Clarke 1997; Beth Harris & Barletta 2001 ;
Manning & Collins 2001).
    Clinical JD in dairy cattle usually presents with loss of condition, a reduction in
mjlk yield, weight loss and diarrhoea. Diarrhoea is not, however, a constant feature
particularly in small ruminants such as sheep and goats. There is no treatment and
the disease is invariably fatal. JD is not just a disease of ruminants. Many species
including monogastrics such as dogs, pigs, horses, chickens and primates are
affected. MAP shows a distinct tissue tropism and causes chromc inflammation of
the intestine even if admjmstered subcutaneously or intravenously. The regions of
the gastro-intestinal tract usually affected are the terminal ileum and colon with
segmental lesions as well as rectal involvement. The gut wall is thickened, the
mucosa is swollen with occasional ulcers and the regional mesenteric lymph nodes
are enlarged. Microscopically, MAP disease in animals shows a broad range of
histopathological characteristics in the gut wall, from pluribacillary disease with
abundant ZN-positive acid-fast bacilli in intestinal macrophages, to an extreme
paucirrucrobial form with no visible acid-fast orgamsms and florid chromc
granulomatous inflammation (Fig 6.2). The pluribacillary to paucimicrobial range of
MAP disease in animals thus closely resembles the range in the appearances of
leprosy in humans: the lepromatous to tuberculoid forms. The pluribacillary picture
is the common form seen in naturally as well as in experimentally infected animals.




Fig. 6.2 A: Microscopic appearance of the gut wall in pluribacillary JD showing macrophages
containing abundant ZN-positive MAP organisms in their classical mycobacterial phenotype.
B: The contrasted appearance of the gut wall in paucimicrobial JD showing no ZN-staining
MAP and florid granulomatous inflammatory disease with prominent giant cells (arrow). C:
The chronic granulomatous inflammation of the gut wall of CD in hwnans showing giant cell
(arrow). (See also colour plate section between pages 82 and 83).
                      MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                         77

   Animals that are naturally or experimentally infected with MAP develop an
enteric neuritis with inflammatory cells surrounding autonomic nerve fibres in the
gut wall (Gwordz et al. 2001). The paucimicrobial form of JD closely resembles CD
in humans. MAP in JD is a systemic infection; the organisms traffic widely in
macrophages and parasitize the reproductive organs of both males and females.
Granulomatous lesions are seen microscopically in the spleen and liver as well as
widely in lymphoid tissue.
    In a herd with one or two clinically diseased animals, up to 50% of the other
apparently healthy animals will be subclinically infected. Infection is transmitted
from cow to calf in colostrum and in milk, and from animal to animal in crowded,
contaminated farm environments. MAP can persist in the intestinal tract of
subclinically infected animals for years without causing clinical disease. The
emergence of clinical JD can be triggered by physical or psychological stress such
as calving or overcrowding. Animals are most susceptible when infected at an early
age, but there is a long lead-time of months or years before clinical disease, if it is
going to develop, eventually emerges. There are marked genetic influences in the
susceptibility of animals to MAP infection and JD (Koets et al. 2000). Guinea pigs
and rats are particularly resistant whereas young deer and goats are highly
susceptible. Within bovines, Channel Island cattle, Limousin and specialist breeds
such as Welsh Blacks are particularly susceptible.
    The principal diagnostic tests for MAP infection in animals are individual or
pooled faecal culture, ELISA and IFNy release from activated white cells in
response to MAP antigens. PCR diagnostics have also been introduced. Faecal
culture remains the gold standard and its performance has been improved by the
commercial availability of BACTEC and MGIT media (Becton Dickinson) and the
application of IS900 PCR to the culture (Eamens et al. 2000; Kalis et al. 2000;
Whittington et al. 2000). To date, commercially available ELISA kits lack the
sensitivity and specificity to diagnose subclinical MAP infection at an early stage.
The performance of these ELISA tests may improve through the progressive
introduction of MAP antigens of greater specificity. ELISA is, however, a cheap and
convenient screening test. Their practical usefulness can be enhanced
mathematically and by the derivation of likelihood ratios (Beyerbach et al. 2001;
Collins 2002). IFNy tests of cell-mediated immunity to MAP antigens detect sub
clinical MAP infection at an earlier stage than ELISAs.
     The use in recent years of all these diagnostic procedures has revealed the
widespread nature of MAP infection in domestic livestock throughout Western
Europe and North America. Results from Austria, Denmark, Belgium, the
Netherlands and the United Kingdom have ranged from individual animal infection
rates of 1.9-9% and herd prevalences (1 to 2 test-positive animals per herd) in the
range 0.8-86%. The highest herd prevalences have been reported in the
Netherlands and Denmark (Cetinkaya et al. 1996; Gasteiner et al. 1999, 2000;
78                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Boelaert et al. 2000; Jakobsen et al. 2000; Muskens et al. 2000; Nielsen et al.
2000). Results from dairy cattle in the USA and Canada have been similar
showing individual animal infection rates in the range l.8-7.29% and herd
prevalences in the range 16.7-54% (McNab et al. 1991; Collins et al. 1994;
Wells et al. 1996; Johnson-Ifearulundu & Kaneene 1999; Van Leeuwen et al.
2001). Infection rates reported in beef herds have been much lower (Dargatz et
al. 2001; Waldner et al. 2002).


6.3 DIFFERENT STRAINS OF MAP
With the opportunity to amplify in domestic livestock exposed to increasingly
intensive farming practises over the course of more than a century, MAP has
almost certainly done what other pathogens have done and has undergone an
adaptive radiation (Colwell 1996). More than 30 different MAP strains have
been identified using methods such as restriction endonuclease analysis, IS900
RFLP, and PFGE (Collins et al. 1990; Whipple et at. 1990; Bauerfeind et al.
1996; Feizabadi et al. 1997; Pavlik et al. 1999; Cousins et al. 2000; Stevenson
et al. 2002). Typing of over a thousand MAP isolates obtained from all over the
world has demonstrated differences between ovine strains (S-type or type I) and
bovine strains (C-type or type II), suggesting an adaptation to their respective
preferred hosts. Although phenotypic and genotypic differences are found
between ovine strains and between bovine strains, they nonetheless share
substantial intra-species commonality. The major differences are inter-species.
Studies in Iceland and the Netherlands have shown that sheep strains of MAP
can infect cattle, and cattle strains of MAP can give rise to long-standing
subclinical infection in sheep grazing the same pastures (Fridriksdottir et al.
2000; Muskens et al. 2001). Bovine strains, however, have a much broader host
range. IS900 RFLP typing of MAP isolates from humans with CD has so far
demonstrated that they are all based on the cattle C-type, type II background
(Franyois et al. 1997; Pavlik et al. 1999; Whittington et al. 2000a).
   A unique 12 bp tandem repeat sequence present in sheep strains and absent
from bovine strains enables these strains to be distinguished by a single specific
PCR (Collins et al. 2002). The use of representational difference analysis has
further identified an 11 bp fragment present in sheep strains which was absent
from bovine strains tested (Dohmann et at. 2003). Differences in MAP strains
from cattle and sheep have been demonstrated between Argentina and Europe
(Moreira et al. 1999), and between Australia and Iceland (Whittington et al.
2001b). Typing of ISJ311 polymorphisms from MAP isolates obtained from
nine bison in Montana, USA showed consistent variation at base position 223
compared with 13 C-type isolates from cattle and goats in the United States. The
finding that bison strains of MAP (designated B-strain) differed from ambient
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                     79

cattle strains suggested that the epidemiology of paratuberculosis in bison in
Montana may be distinct from that found in farmed livestock in other regions
(Whittington et al. 200la). Taken together, the findings are consistent with
predictable geographical differences in MAP isolates between continents and
different regions. Diversification of MAP strains is a continuing dynamic
process and human MAP strains with type-specific features can be expected.
   RFLP and PFGE are methods which limit the typing of MAP to those strains
which can be cultured. Given the very slow growth, and in some cases
unculturable nature of these organisms, PCR-based typing procedures for these
difficult pathogens are highly desirable. The methods developed so far, and
discussed in Chapter 5, include random amplified polymorphic DNA patterns
(Scheibl & Gerlach 1997; Pillai et al. 2001) and a multiplex PCR typing
procedure which utilizes a common IS900 primer together with a locus-specific
primer (Bull et al. 2000). PCR typing of M tuberculosis based upon
mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units (Supply et a12000) has been adapted
for MAP (Bull et al. 2003a). PCR typing based upon six mycobacterial
interspersed repetitive units loci, distinguishes MAP from other MAC. This
maybe useful in demonstrating that a liquid culture of MAP isolated from a
sample does not also contain other MAC organisms.


6.4 MAP IN WILDLIFE AND IN THE ENVIRONMENT
Clinically and subclinically infected farm animals, particularly those with the
common pluribacillary form of disease shown in Figure 6.2 (A), can shed huge
numbers of MAP onto pastures. MAP infection and JD are endemic in Western
Europe and North America. Taking north-east Scotland as an example, studies
beginning in 1994 demonstrated MAP infection in 8-53% of wild rabbits culled
from farms reporting clinical JD in cattle and sheep. MAP infection was also
found in a smaller proportion of rabbits obtained from farms without clinical JD
(Greig et al. 1999). Typing of the isolates demonstrated that they were all of the
bovine type. MAP-infected wild rabbits shed the pathogen in their faecal pellets
which are consumed by grazing cattle. Experimental paratuberculosis has been
demonstrated in calves following infection with a rabbit MAP isolate (Beard et
al. 2001a; Daniels et al. 2001). Thus a cycle of infection is established
comprising MAP amplified in domestic animals, environmental contamination,
infection of rabbits and re-infection of domestic livestock. In the same group of
studies, MAP infection was also found in a high proportion of rabbit predators
such as stoat, weasel and fox, as well as in the carrion birds crow, rook and
jackdaw. Rat, wood mouse, hare and badger were found to harbour MAP (Beard
et al. 2001). MAP infection in wildlife has been extensively reported in other
regions as exemplified by MAP-infected red deer and ibex from the European
80                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Alps, bison and elk in North America, and wild ruminants as well as insects and
earthworms in the Czech Republic (Buergelt et al. 2000; Ferroglio et al. 2000;
Nebbia et al. 2000; Pavlik et al. 2000; Fischer et al 2001, 2003). MAP in
domestic animals and wildlife thus constitutes a reservoir of these pathogens
capable of being disseminated over substantial distances.
   The survival of Mycobacterium bovis in the environment is thought to be
limited to hours or days. By contrast, the physically more robust MAP is known
to survive for months and perhaps years since no upper limit on the
environmental survival and persistence has been established. Geographical
regions characterized by acid soils rich in humic and fulvic acids, boreal forests
and areas with a high rainfall and water table, may favour the accumulation of
MAP in the environment (Kopecky 1977; Kazda et al. 1990; Johnson-
Ifearulundu & Kaneene 1997; Iivanainen et al. 1999b; Kirschner et al. 1999;
Reviriego et al. 2000). Although investigations of MAP in the environment and
in surface waters are currently in progress, there are to date no published studies
to give us a detailed understanding of the ecology and fate of MAP in the
environment and the potential cycling of these pathogens through human
populations. From what is known about other MAC and organisms such as
Legionella sp. it is highly likely that environmental MAP are taken up into
protozoa (Barker & Brown 1994; Falkinham 1996; Ford 1999; Hermon-Taylor
et al. 2000). Intracellular adaptation of MAP within protozoa in the environment
and in biofilm communities may profoundly influence microbial survival,
phenotype and virulence. M avium grown in vacuoles in Acanthamoeba
castellanii has been shown to develop an increased capacity to infect other
amoebae, macrophages and human colonic epithelial cells, as well as an
enhanced virulence in a beige mouse model of infection (Cirillo et al. 1997).
M avium can survive for long periods within encysted forms of Acanthamoeba
polyphaga (Steinert et al. 1998). The environmental exposure of MAP and its
cycling through unicellular organisms, as well as through animal and human
populations, has the potential to have a profound effect on the evolution of these
organisms and the development of strains with enhanced pathogenicity. Much
research remains to be done in this area.


6.S TRANSMISSION OF MAP FROM ANIMALS TO
    HUMANS
It is unlikely that crowded human populations sharing the same geographical
regions as their widely MAP-infected domestic animals would be excluded from
any exposure to these robust and versatile pathogens.
                    MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                     81


6.5.1 In food
It has long been known, and has more recently been confirmed, that infected
animals secrete MAP in their milk (Doyle 1954; Taylor et al 1981; Sweeney et
al. 1992; Streeter et al. 1995). Faecal contamination in the milking parlour is
another source of MAP in milk. MAP is more thermotolerant than M hovis.
Studies carried out in several laboratories have sought to determine whether
exposure to n DC for 15 seconds, conditions commonly used in commercial
pasteurization, would ensure the destruction of all viable MAP (Chiodini &
Hermon-Taylor 1993; Grant et al. 1996, 1999, 2002a; Meylan et al. 1996;
Stabe1 et al. 1997; Keswani & Frank 1998; Sung & Collins 1998; Pearce et al
2001; Gao et al. 2002). Despite some potential limitations in these studies, the
substantial balance of experimental evidence strongly predicted that
pasteurization at nDc for 15 or 25 seconds, while reducing the number of viable
organisms, would not ensure the destruction of all MAP.
    Field studies in the United Kingdom using IS900 PCR to screen retail
pasteurised cows' milk for MAP, while unable to distinguish between live and
dead organisms, indicated a high risk of the transmission of MAP to humans by
this route (Millar et al. 1996). Further work from the Department of Food
Science, Queen's University Belfast, using optimized decontamination protocols
and immunomagnetic capture, found that 11.8% of 567 samples of retail
pasteurized cows' milk in the UK tested MAP-positive by PCR, and that 1.8%
of samples were MAP-positive by culture (Dundee et al. 2001; Grant et al.
2002). For Britain alone therefore, it is known that people are from time to time
drinking live MAP in the milk supply. The finding in Switzerland that 19.7% of
1384 samples of bulk-tank milk tested IS900 PCR positive emphasizes the risk
that this may be happening elsewhere (Corti & Stephan 2002). More data are
required from other countries where MAP infection in dairy herds is endemic.
Exploitation of specific peptide-mediated capture of MAP from milk will
advance the sensitivity of detection (Stratmann et al. 2002). Quantitative RT-
PCR (reverse transcription PCR) and sensitive methods including culture of
MAP within cell lines, and the use of susceptible C57/BL6 or immune deficient
mice, may improve on conventional culture in their ability to reveal residual
viable MAP and assist in the selection of new industrially applicable processes
to eliminate these pathogens from the food chain. Procedures already tested on
milk include filtration, cold shock, hydrostatic pressure and pulsed electric
fields (Miller et al. 2000; O'Reilly et al. 2000; Rowan et al. 2001). Specialist
cheeses derived from raw milk need to come from certified MAP-free animals.
    In many countries existing legislation still permits clinically diseased JD
cattle or sheep, in which MAP are widely present in liver, lymph nodes and
other tissue, to be sent for slaughter and the meat and offal passed for human
82                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

consumption. These animals contain huge numbers of MAP with a high risk of
dissemination in the abattoir environment, and surface contamination of other
meat being processed. Vegetables are at risk where MAP-infected slurry is
applied to market gardens or agricultural land as a fertilizer.


6.5.2 In water supplies and aerosols
Although work is currently in progress there are, at the end of 2003, no detailed
published studies using molecular and other methods of established validity
which reliably inform us about MAP contamination of waters close to
population centres, or of those sourced for domestic supply. However, the
information available for other robust zoonotic pathogens that can survive in the
environment (Szewzyk et at. 2000; Le Dantec et at. 2002a) would suggest that
there is a high risk that MAP may from time to time be transmitted to people in
drinking-water or by aerosols (Hermon-Taylor et al. 2000). MAP in lakes and
rivers contaminated by run-off from heavily grazed pastures will be present in
planktonic form, within protozoa or, more likely, both. If these adhere to
particles of suspended solid, then the MAP content of native water abstracted
for domestic supply will be depleted by subsequent treatments, such as counter-
current dissolved air floatation filtration. CT values for the effect of chlorine on
MAP have been estimated to be up to 580 to 2300 times greater than those for
E. coli (Taylor et al. 2000; Whan et al. 2001). MAP getting through the stage in
water treatment plants of removal of suspended solids is therefore unlikely to be
destroyed by subsequent chlorination. These pathogens arriving at domestic
outlets in high dilution may accumulate in biofilms present in household cold
and hot water storage and delivery systems. If research tells us that this is indeed
happening, we may need to consider exploiting the susceptibility of MAP to UV
irradiation (Miyamoto et al. 2000) using additional industrially applicable
treatments in flow-through units.
   While we wait for reliable scientific data, it is worth revisiting two published
studies where exposure to waters whose catchments included heavily grazed
pastures was associated with conspicuous clusters of CD. The first of these
involved the village of Blockley, a rural community of about 2000 people in
Gloucestershire, England in which 12 people developed CD between 1960 and
1983, an increase of observed over expected (for that time) of 6.7-fold and
equating with a CD incidence of28110 5 per year (Allan et al. 1986). The village,
which had its own water supply from local springs, lay in a hollow surrounded
by upland pastures grazed by cattle in which clinical JD was evident (R.N.
Allan, personal communication, 1992). The second CD cluster occurred in the
town of Mankato, Minnesota, USA and involved the occurrence of 7 cases of
CD amongst 285 graduates of the Mankato West High School class of 1980.
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                     83

All seven had been swimming in local ponds and lakes. The school also lay
close to the Minnesota River, just downstream from the entry of the Blue Earth
River whose catchment included rich agricultural grazing land. High faecal
coliform counts in the Blue Earth River, monitored over the period, indicated
extensive contamination with faecal run-off. Seventy-five percent of the water
supply to Mankato was reported to be drawn from beneath the Blue Earth River
(Van Kruiningen & Freda 2001). Although not discussed by these authors, it is
highly likely that these waters were from time to time heavily contaminated
with MAP. There are also data which implicate domestic hot water systems.
Two case control epidemiological studies carried out independently in the
United Kingdom, each unexpectedly identified the availability of fixed hot
water supplies in the early childhood home as a significant risk factor for the
subsequent development of CD, but not for ulcerative colitis (Gent et al. 1994;
Duggan et al. 1998).
   Mycobacteria are known to occur in aerosols, and to concentrate to high
levels in the water droplets (Blanchard & Syzdek 1972; Wendt et al. 1980; refer
also to Chapter 3). Cardiff is a city on the coastal plain of South Wales in the
United Kingdom, beside the sea. North of the city lie the Brecon Hills, steep
upland pastures that are grazed by sheep and cattle in whom MAP infection is
endemic. Heavy rains from the Atlantic wash off these pastures into spate
rivers. One of these rivers, the Taff, runs through the middle of Cardiff.
Research carried out in Cardiff during the 1970s demonstrated a highly
significant increased incidence of CD (p < 0.001), but not of ulcerative colitis,
in 11 of the local electoral city wards (Mayberry & Hitchens 1978). Of these
high incidence wards, eight directly bordered the river Taff and the three that
did not were immediately adjacent to the north and east. This is the direction in
which aerosols would be carried by the prevailing south-westerly winds
(Hermon-Taylor 1993). Inflammatory involvement of the trachea and bronchi
with abnormal lung function tests are demonstrable in a significant proportion of
people with CD, and CD in children can present with chronic granulomatous
tracheo-bronchitis (Heatley et al. 1982; Bonniere et al. 1986; Calder et al. 1993;
Dierkes-Globisch & Mohr 2002; Herrlinger et al. 2002). Much research is
needed on MAP in the environment, in surface and groundwaters and in
aerosols.


6.6 CROHN DISEASE
6.6.1 Definition
CD is a systemic disorder whose principal clinicopathological manifestation is
chronic inflammation of the intestine. Any part of the gastrointestinal tract from
84                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

mouth to anus may be involved in the chronic granulomatous process, but the
terminal ileum and colon are the regions most frequently affected (Fig 6.3).




Fig. 6.3 Typical appearance of an inflamed tenninal ileum in a person with active CD.
(See also colour plate section between pages 82 and 83).

    CD usually presents with abdominal pain, feeling unwell, loss of energy and
weight, night sweats, mouth ulcers and joint pains. It sometimes presents as an
abdominal emergency with peritonitis, perforation of the terminal ileum, or
mimicking acute appendicitis. As in animals, onset of clinical disease may be
triggered by physical and psychological stress. About 60% of patients have
diarrhoea which may contain pus and blood. The tissues around the anus and
perineum may become ulcerated or chronically inflamed with sinuses discharging
pus and faecal material. In children, growth and sexual maturation is retarded or
arrested. The mucosa lining the gut first becomes leaky, then ulcerated with long
serpiginous fissures. Mucosa surviving between the ulcers is swollen, inflamed
and oedematous and frequently goes on to form inflammatory pseudopolyps. The
chronic inflammatory process and inflammatory cell infiltrate extends deep into
and often right across the gut wall. Granulomata, consisting principally of clusters
of activated macrophages with conspicuous multinucleate giant cells, are seen
microscopically in only about half of CD cases. As in naturally and
experimentally MAP-infected animals (Gwordz et al. 2001), humans with CD
demonstrate abnormalities of the enteric nervous system, with neuronal and
axonal hyperplasia, axonal damage and periaxonal inflammatory cell cuffIng,
associated with MHC class II expression on enteric glial cells (Geboes et al 1992;
Geboes & Collins 1998).
    Treatment of CD has been limited to the suppression or modulation of the
inflammatory process. This can sometimes achieve and maintain remission over
prolonged periods. Relapse frequently occurs and is often triggered by physical
and psychological stress. Surgery is required if the disease gets out of control or if
Fig. 6.1 A: Smooth colonies of a bovine strain of MAP after 10 weeks of culture on a Herrold 's
media containing egg yolk slope in a sealed tube. B: Bovine MAP after 10 weeks of culture in
MGIT liquid medium (Becton Dickinson) showing characteristic clumping. C: Microscopic
appearance of a bovine MAP strain from liquid medium showing the red acid alcohol-fast ZN
staining typical of mycobacteria in bacillary form.




Fig. 6.2 A: Microscopic appearance of the gut wall in pluribacillary JD showing macrophages
containing abundant ZN-positive MAP organisms in their classical mycobacterial phenotype.
B: The contrasted appearance of the gut wall in paucimicrobial JD showing no ZN-staining MAP
and florid granulomatous inflammatory disease with prominent giant cells (arrow). C: The chronic
granulomatous inflammation of the gut wall of CD in humans showing giant cell (arrow).




Fig. 6.3 Typical appearance of an inflamed terminal ileum in a person with active CD
      Incidence/ 10 5/year
                      10



                     7.5




                       5




                     2.5




                       o IT'
                        1930     1940     1950     1960     1970     1980     1990

Fig. 6.4 The incidence of CD in three regions of the United Kingdom: South Wales -
(Rose et al. 1988); the Midlands ¢ (Fellows et al. 1990); and north-eastern Scotland 0
(Kyle \992) over the 50 year period 1940 to 1990




Fig. 6.5 Demonstration of MAP in CD tissues by in situ hybridization on paraffin-embedded
tissue sections using an IS900 probe. A : In situ hybridization with no counter stain showing
MAP DNA in the lamina propria and occasionally infiltrating a gland (x40). B : Same as in A:
with H & E as a counter stain showing MAP as brown positive spots within macrophages in the
lamina propria (x I 00).
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                       85

specific complications develop. These take the form of obstruction of the gut due
to stricturing, abdominal abscesses, perforation of the gut or fistulous connections
leading to discharge of intestinal content from other organs such the bladder or
vagina. About 40% of people with colonic CD will end up having to have their
whole colon removed, and an abdominal bag collecting intestinal effluent from an
ileostomy. CD characterized by cycles of disease remission followed by activity,
with its physical, emotional, sexual, social and family morbidities, involves a
lifetime of medical care and huge economic cost (Sandler et al. 2002).


6.6.2 Epidemiology, environmental factors, and inherited
      susceptibility to CD
CD is a 'new' disease first appearing in developed societies in temperate regions
with intensive farming. From a low background level of sporadic cases recorded
over many years (Combe 1813; Moschcowitz & Wilensky 1923), chronic
inflammation of the intestine of the CD type began to emerge perceptibly about
a third of the way into the 20 th century (Crohn et al. 1932). Thereafter, with
plateaus at times in some regions, the incidence and prevalence of CD have
continued to climb (Fig 6.4).
   Comparable increases in the incidence of CD were recorded in North
America and continental Europe (Loftus et al. 1998; Munkholm et al. 1992). In
the United Kingdom in recent years, increases in CD have particularly affected
children (Cosgrove et al. 1996; Armitage et al. 2001; Sawczenko et al. 2001).
Continents in the northern hemisphere demonstrate a north-south gradient in the
incidence of CD (Sonnenberg et al. 1991; Shivananda et al. 1996). In Europe,
while CD remains uncommon in Greece (Tsianos et al. 1994), there is evidence
that a higher incidence is spreading south to the Iberian peninsular (Ruiz 1989;
Veloso et al. 1989; Cebolla et al. 1991; Lopez Miguel et al. 1999) and east to
European countries such as Hungary and Croatia (Lakatos et al. 2002;
Mijandrusic Sincic et al. 2002). CD also appears to be rising in countries
formerly presumed to have a low incidence such as Iran (Merat et al. 2002),
India (Pai & Khandige 2000) and Brazil (Gaburri et al. 1998), as well as in
China and Japan which have substantially increased production and
consumption of dairy products (Yao et al. 2000).
86                        Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


         Incidence/1 cfi /year
                           10




                          7.5




                           5




                          2.5



                            04---~~~~----~----~--~--~
                                1930   1940   1950    1960     1970     1980 1990
                                                                            Year

 Fig. 6.4 The incidence of CD in three regions ofthe United Kingdom: South Wales 0---0
 (Rose et al. 1988); the Midlands 0---0 (Fellows et al. 1990); and north-eastern Scotland
 0---0 (Kyle 1992) over the 50 year period 1940 to 1990. (See also colour plate section

 between pages 82 and 83).

         The highest overall incidence (15.6/100000 per year) and prevalence (198.5/100
     000 population) of CD so far reported in the world is in Manitoba, Canada
     (Bernstein et a!. 1999; Blanchard et af. 2001). Individual incidence rates for CD
     across the 52 postal regions in these Manitoba studies ranged from 1 to 26/100 000
     per year, making the province a fruitful region for further environmental research
     into CD causation. In the absence for the most part of national population-based
     data, the overall scale of the CD problem in human populations at the present time
      can only be estimated. Loftus et a!. (2002) estimated the number of CD sufferers in
      the United States to be 600 000 although it could be as high as one million; for
      western Europe 300 000-500 000; and for Britain about 100 000 (Rubin et af. 2000).
      In Northern Stockholm County, Sweden the incidence of CD in children under 16
       increased from 1.7/100000 year in 1990-92 to 8.41100000 per year in 1999-2001
       (Hildebrand et aZ. 2003). In Victoria, Australia the CD incidence in children rose
       from 0.128 to 2.0/100000 per year over the period 1971-2001 (Phavichitr et aZ.
       2003). In each case, this represents an average five-fold increase in CD in children
       per decade. There is a lack of recent data for the incidence and prevalence of CD in
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                    87

adults in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, and a need for the relevant
epidemiological research to be carried out.
    CD occurring in spouses and their children sharing common environments,
and CD increasing to that of the host population in migrants moving from low to
high incidence areas, clearly indicate the involvement of one or more
environmental factors in CD causation (Montgomery et al. 1999; Laharie et al.
2001). Exposure to MAP with its ability to cause chronic inflammation of the
intestine in so many species including primates is a strong candidate
environmental factor. The familial occurrence of CD (Orholm et al. 1991;
Peeters et al. 1996), the higher incidence in some races such as Jewish people
(Yang et al. 1993a), and the concordance rate of CD of 58% in monozygotic
twins and of 0% in dizygotic twins (Orholm et al. 2000) also show that a
susceptibility to CD can be inherited. Recognition of one molecular basis for
this came with the discovery of missence variants and frame shift mutations
affecting the CARD15(NOD2) gene on human chromosome 16 (Hampe et al.
2001; Hugot et al. 2001; Ogura et al. 2001). This gene encodes a
transmembrane receptor for bacterial products like lipopolysaccharide expressed
on monocytes, and related to the Apaf-1 family of apoptosis regulators. Several
polymorphisms are associated with CD susceptibility (Cuthbert et al. 2002;
Lesage et al. 2002) the strongest being an insertional mutation in exon 10
resulting in truncation of the leucine-rich carboxyterminus of the protein, and a
reduction in cellular response to lipopolysaccharide activation. However, while
the linkage between CARD15(NOD2) mutations and CD has been confirmed for
Europeans, North Americans, Australians and Jewish people (Brant et al. 1998;
Cavanaugh et al. 1998; Cavanaugh 2001; Vermeire et al. 2002; Zhou et al.
2002), it does not occur in Japanese, Korean or Chinese patients with CD (Inoue
et al. 2002; Yamazaki et al. 2002; Croucher et al. 2003). An Ala893/Thr
polymorphism in the multidrug resistance gene on chromosome 7q is also
associated with an increased risk of inflammatory bowel disease (Brant et al.
2003), and a number of other loci have been implicated on chromosomes I, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 12 and 14 (Duerr 2002; Watts & Satsangi 2002; Bonen & Cho 2003).
These genetic loci may influence susceptibility to CD; they do not cause it.


6.6.3 The isolated case of Iceland
Does the distribution of MAP infection in animals match the distribution of CD
in humans? The answer to this on a continental basis is yes. However, the
picture is blurred by the putative dispersal of MAP in food products, water and
the environment happening across regional, national and international
boundaries, as well as by the potential exposure to MAP during international
travel. Our understanding is also limited by our lack of knowledge of MAP in
88                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

the environment, in different habitats and phenotypes, and also because the
necessary epidemiological research to detail the comparative incidence and
prevalence of MAP infection in animals and in humans has not been carried out.
    lt is, however, worth taking a closer look at the isolated community of
Iceland, an island of 103 000 km2 in the north Atlantic. The population was
229187 in 1980 rising to 266006 in 1994, with a low migration rate and
ethnically homogeneous Nordic population. About 60% of the people live in the
capital Reykjavik. There are three hospitals, the main one in Reykjavik, and
centralized registration of health information. Farming involves principally the
480000 Icelandic breed of hill sheep with some dairy and beef cattle.
    Prior to 1930 MAP infection and JD in Iceland were virtually unknown.
Then in 1933, 20 Karakul sheep were imported from Germany and, after
quarantine, were distributed to 14 farms (Fridriksdottir et al. 2000). Although
apparently healthy, some of the Karakul sheep were subclinically infected with
MAP. They transmitted MAP to the Icelandic sheep population though they
never developed disease themselves. By 1938 clinical JD appeared in Icelandic
sheep on five of the original farms. By about 1945, clinical JD was in the cattle
on the same farms, although infection in the cattle was difficult to diagnose as
the organisms would not grow in culture; a characteristic of sheep MAP strains.
The organism from these cattle was later confirmed as the sheep strain of MAP
by IS1311 restriction endonuclease analysis (Whittington et al. 2001b). Slowly
the infection spread so that by the late 1950s the disease was epidemic with
about 30% of sheep farms affected and huge annual losses. The mean incidence
of CD (number of casesll05 per year) in the human population was 0.4 from
1950-59,0.45 from 1960-69, 0.9 from 1970-79, 3.1 from 1980-89 and 5.6 from
1990-94 inclusive, the highest annual figure over this last five-year period being
8.2 in 1992. Young people were particularly affected (Bjomsson 1989;
Bjomsson et al. 1998; Bjomsson & Johannsson 2000).
    Apart from an increase in the sale of cigarettes during World War II, no
nutritional or environmental risk factors were found to explain the magnitude of
this increase in CD. Although causation is not proven, with the slow growth of
MAP, the need for the pathogen to adapt to each new host (Woodhouse et al.
2001) and the long lead time to the emergence ofc1inical disease (if it is going
to occur) in both animals and humans, the sequential picture of JD then CD
observed in Iceland over 50 years is exactly what would be expected if the
major environmental factor causing CD was MAP.


6.7 MAP CAUSING CROHN DISEASE
In 1988 a previously healthy seven year-old-boy living in a village outside
Cambridge, England developed NTM cervical lymphadenitis which was later
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                    89

shown to be caused by MAP (Hermon-Taylor et af. 1998). After failing to
respond to standard anti-TB treatment, the enlarged lymph glands were
removed. Five years later he developed severe CD of the terminal ileum and
adjacent colon. This healed completely after a year's treatment with anti-MAP
drugs rifabutin and clarithromycin leaving a dense fibrous ileal scar with
narrowing of the gut and impending intestinal obstruction. The scar was
removed and the continuity of the gut restored. The scar tested strongly positive
for MAP by IS900 PCR. Drug treatment was continued for almost two more
years during which he was disease free. About two years after stopping the
drugs, the CD recurred in the ileum next to the anastamotic site, despite his
having been off all British milk products. His CD again responded to rifabutin
and clarithromycin.
    The value of this isolated case lies in the way in which it illustrates the
relationship between MAP and CD. MAP infection of the cervical lymph glands
in this boy was probably acquired from British milk just as with M bovis before
pasteurization. The ingested MAP pathogens would also have colonized his gut
at the same time, but as in animals, a lead time of several years passed before
clinical disease emerged. On this occasion most of the organisms were sensitive
and the disease healed on anti-MAP drug treatment, but continuing colonization
of the gut with residual MAP probably in a state of latency, such as occurs with
TB and Mavium, persisted (Bermudez et af. 1999; Manabe & Bishai 2000; zu
Bentrup & Russell 2001). When the residual MAP reactivated, the disease
responded again to the same therapy. At no time was MAP either seen
microscopically or isolated in conventional culture from his diseased tissues.
Recognition of the true nature of the causation of the lymphadenitis and the
subsequent chronic enteric infection depended entirely on the detection of MAP
using appropriate molecular methods. This isolated case also shows that MAP
infections are extremely difficult to eradicate.


6.7.1 MAP in the inflamed gut of people with Crohn disease
The proposition that MAP (Johne's bacillus) could cause chronic inflammation
of the intestine in humans as well as animals, was first published by the
Glasgow surgeon T.K. Dalziel in 1913 (Dalziel 1913). The uncertainty, nearly
100 years later, as to whether or not this is true is almost entirely due to the
difficulties of reliably detecting this robust, versatile and often unculturable
pathogen. A pivotal contribution was made by Dr R. Chiodini in the United
States during the mid-1980s when he and his co-workers, using optimized
cultures and incubation times of months or years, isolated an unclassified
Mycobacterium sp. from the inflamed gut of three people with CD (Chiodini et
af. 1984a, 1986; Chiodini 1989). These isolates caused chronic inflammation of
90                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

the intestine when administered to young goats. In half the goats no ZN -positive
mycobacteria could be seen microscopically in the inflamed tissues, as with CD
(Van Kruningen et at. 1986). Other workers were able to isolate spheroplasts
and acid-fast bacilli from CD, but in the absence at that time of molecular
methods of sufficient specificity and sensitivity, the nature of these could not be
precisely demonstrated (Markesich et aZ 1988). Similar contributions were
made by other research groups (Hermon-Taylor et at. 2000; Chamberlain et aZ.
2001; El-Zaatari et aZ. 2001).
    The availability of IS900 (Green et aZ. 1989) and its use as a probe and a
target for PCR, confirmed the CD isolates of Chiodini as MAP, and showed
that a substantial proportion oflong-term CD cultures contained these pathogens
(McFadden et at. 1987a; Moss et at. 1992; Wall et at. 1993). IS900 PCR
together with DNA extraction protocols optimized using fresh surgically
removed MAP-positive CD tissues, demonstrated MAP in the inflamed gut of
65% of people with CD and in 12% of uninflamed control gut samples
(Sanderson et at. 1992). Subsequent PCR studies over the period 1994-99 were
conflicting (Hermon-Taylor et at. 2000), though work from the University of
Bari in Italy showed that people with CD may excrete MAP in their stool (Del
Prete et aZ. 1998).
   Recent research has established the extraordinary resistance of MAP in
human and animal tissues, and in milk and other samples, to chemical as well as
enzymic lysis, and the need to incorporate an optimized mechanical disruption
step in sample processing to ensure reliable access to MAP DNA for PCR
detection (Hermon-Taylor et at. 2000; Odumeru et aZ. 2001). Recent years have
also brought the commercial availability of improved media for the isolation of
MAP such as the MGIT system, the result of some years of developmental work
in Becton Dickinson. New methods have been applied to the localization of
MAP in CD tissues, such as laser capture microdissection and in situ
hybridization. Researchers at the University of Central Florida and El Paso
Texas cultured MAP in MGIT medium after about a year of incubation from the
inflamed gut of six of seven (86%) people with CD (Schwartz et aZ. 2000).
They also cultured MAP from the breast milk of two women with CD who had
recently given birth, but not from the milk of five women who did not show the
disease (Naser et at. 2000). Collaborative research at the Baylor College of
Medicine, USA and at the University of Oulu, Finland demonstrated MAP for
the first time in 6 of 15 (40%) granuloma-positive CD patients and in none of22
patients without CD using in situ hybridization (Hulten et aZ. 2001).
   In situ hybridization studies from the Universities of Sassari in Sardinia and
Rome demonstrated MAP in 27 of 33 (82%) CD patients with no relationship to
the presence of granuloma, and in none of 40 patients without CD (Sechi et at.
2001). Research in Ireland using laser capture microdissection and PCR
                      MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                          91

(without a mechanical di sruption step) of sub-epithelial granulomas detected
MAP in 6 of 15 (40%) patients with CD and in none of 12 disease controls
(Ryan et af. 2002). 1S900 PCR (without a mechanjcal disruption step) was
positive for MAP in 15 of 79 (19%) CD patients and 3 of 48 (6%) control
patients from the United States and Denmark (Co llins et al. 2000). Research in
London, England using optirillzed tissue processing (with mechanical
disruption) and nested IS900 PCR, detected MAP in fres h ileocolonoscopic
mucosal biopsies (Fig 6.5) in 9 of 34 (26%) of people without
clinicopathological CD, and in 34 of 37 (92%) of people with CD (odds ratio
3.47; p = 0.0002) (Bull et at. 2003). In this study, identity with IS900 was
verified in every case by amplicon sequencing. The 1S900 multicopy element as
defined by its entire DNA sequence is unique for MAP.




Fig. 6.5 Demonstration of MAP in CD tissues by in situ hybridization on paraffin-
embedded tissue sections using an IS900 probe. (A) In situ hybridization with no counter
stain showing MAP DNA in the lamina propria and occasionally infiltrating a gland
(x40). (8) Same as in (A) with H & E as a counter stain showing MAP as brown positive
spots within macrophages in the lamina propria (x 100). (See also colour plate section
between pages 82 and 83).

    Taken together, these studies show that the detection rates for MAP in CD depend
critically on the validity of the methods used. When these are optimal almost
everybody with CD is found to be infected with MAP. The presence of MAP
colonjzation of the gut in a minority proportion of people without CD is consistent
with widespread environmental exposure to these pathogens, as exemplified also in the
population biology of M tuberculosis, S. pneumonae, N. meningitidis, and H. py lori.


6.7.2 Serological recognition of MAP proteins in Crohn disease
Sera from animal healthcare workers exposed to abundant ZN-positive
bacillary-form MAP show significantly higher levels of IgG antibody binding to
microtitre plates coated with the crude soluble fraction of MAP Iysates, than do
sera from healthy humans (Chiodini et at. 1996). Sera from people with CD in
general show no significant difference in antibody binding to such crude MAP
92                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

extracts compared with controls (Hermon-Taylor et al. 2000). In this situation,
such tests report an overall immune responsiveness to common MAC antigens.
   The ZN-negative form of MAP in CD minimizes immune recognition.
Significant differences in IgG and/or IgA antibody binding are, however,
observed in ELISA tests using selected highly purified or recombinant MAP
proteins and peptides. This has so far been demonstrated for a 24kDa MAP
protein and an 18kDa bacterioferritin (Elsaghier et al. 1992), for the MAP-
specific C-terminal recombinant peptide fragment of the 34kDa component of
the MAP A36 complex (Vannuffel et al. 1994), for the recombinant p35 and
p36 antigens from MAP (El-Zaatari et al. 1999; Naser et al. 1999; Naser et at.
2000), for the alkylhydroperoxide reductase AhpC and a 14kDa protein secreted
by MAP (Olsen et at. 2001), and for the mycobacterial protein HupB (Cohavy
et al. 1999). These serological data strongly support the hypothesis that CD
patients are infected with MAP.


6.7.3 Response of Crohn disease to treatment with anti-MAP
      drugs
Clinical infections caused by MAC organisms are known to be difficult to
eradicate by treatment using standard anti-TB therapy. Relapses and the
development of microbial drug resistance are common. MAP is generally
resistant to natural streptomyces antibiotics and MAP infections in animals have
never been convincingly eradicated (Hermon-Taylor et at. 2000). Other anti-
mycobacterial agents such as isoniazid, ethambutol and pyrazinamide act by
blocking the biosynthesis of cell wall components including mycolic acids.
MAP in CD is in its ZN-negative form and does not have a conventional
mycobacterial cell wall. Treatment of CD with combinations of drugs such as
these would not, therefore, be predicted to confer any lasting benefit, and it does
not (Hermon-Taylor 1998; Thomas et al. 1998). Drugs such as rifabutin and
clarithromycin are man-made chemical modifications of natural streptomyces
antibiotics with enhanced activity against MAC and MAP. In their inhibition of
RNA polymerisation and of microbial protein synthesis at the level of the
ribosome, rifabutin and clarithromycin act in synergy and may also be
potentiated by the anti-leprosy drug clofazimine (Warek & Falkinham 1996;
Ghebremichael et al. 1996; Hermon-Taylor 2002). All three agents have the
additional advantage of being concentrated within macrophages where MAP in
CD occurs. A double blind randomized placebo-controlled trial of rifabutin
clarithromycin and clofazimine treatment in CD, based on several centres
throughout Australia, is due to report in November 2004 (Selby et al. 2001). In
the meantime, the results of four open-label clinical studies of the use of
rifabutin and clarithromycin, with or without clofazimine, all say essentially the
                     MAP and its relation to Crohn disease                      93

same thing: that a substantial proportion of people with active CD will get better
and their inflamed gut will heal when treated with these anti-MAP agents (Gui
et al. 1997; Douglass et al. 2001; Borody et al. 2002; Shafran et al. 2002).
   Rifampicin and erythromycin, the parent compounds, will kill many ordinary
gut bacteria, but they are not active against MAP and do not heal CD. Rifabutin
and clarithromycin will also kill many ordinary gut bacteria, but they are usually
active against MAP and can heal CD. This reasoning favours the conclusion that
when CD heals on rifabutin and clarithromycin treatment, it is because these
agents are acting against the underlying causative MAP infection (Hermon-
Taylor 2002).


6.7.4 Pathogenic mechanisms of MAP in Crohn disease
Although there have been recent advances (Clark-Curtiss 1998; Brosch et al.
2001) we still do not have a complete understanding of the way in which
M tuberculosis, M leprae and MAC cause disease. We know little of the
specific pathogenic mechanisms of MAP. How can a relatively low copy
number of very slowly replicating ZN-negative intracellular MAP, able to
minimize immune recognition, cause so much chronic inflammatory disease
right across the gut wall in CD? It is most unlikely to be a direct florid response
to MAP 'antigens'.
   Epidemiological evidence suggests that the increased gut permeability well
known to occur in CD is determined by exposure to environmental factors
(Soderholm et al. 1999). Monocyte dysfunction and impaired immune
regulation are also well known in CD (Fiocchi 1998; Monteleone et al. 2002;
Shanahan 2002). M avium infection perturbs immune function (Holland 2001;
Wagner et al. 2002). A model for the way in which MAP causes CD, which is
consistent with all the clinicopathological and therapeutic data, is one in which
parasitization of immunoregulatory cells like macrophages and cells of the
lamina propria by MAP, makes the gut mucosa leaky and establishes a variable
impaired immune regulation throughout the gut wall and probably elsewhere.
The inflammation itself then results from a disordered immune response to entry
into the gut wall of food residues and microorganisms from the gut lumen. This
would be why immunosuppression or immunomodulation can make CD better,
when it would make TB worse. This would be why CD can improve with
elemental diets, by reducing the allergic component of the inflammatory
response to food residues and altering the intestinal flora. This would be why in
colonic disease CD can improve on treatment with drugs such as ciprofloxacin
and metronidazole which are active against the invasion by ordinary gut
bacteria. It would also be why active CD usually returns when these treatments
are stopped, because the underlying causative MAP pathogens are still there.
94                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    Other specific disease mechanisms involve MAP-induced damage to enteric glial
cells and enteric neurones which may be an early event in MAP infection of the gut
(Hermon-Taylor & Bull 2002). Through ligands such as the HupB protein (Cohavy et
al. 1999; Shimoji et al. 1999) which participates with specific terminal trisaccharides
in mediating initial Schwann cell adhesion by the leprosy bacillus (Ng et at. 2000),
MAP shares some of the neuropathic properties of M leprae (Rambukkana et al.
1997). Parasitization of the abundant and heterogeneous population of enteric glial
cells by MAP would account for the MHC class IT expression on enteric glial cells in
CD (Geboes et al. 1992). It would also participate in establishing the enteric neuritis
and the neuronal changes well known in CD, and clearly demonstrated in the gut of
MAP-infected animals (Geboes & Collins 1998; Gwozdz et al. 2001). Damage to
enteric glial cells in a transgenic mouse model has been shown to impair gut mucosal
as well as vascular integrity, and to result in inflammatory disease of the small and
large intestine with pathological features reminiscent of early CD (Comet et al. 2001;
Bush 2002). Abnormalities affecting enteric glial cells and enteric neurones are clearly
involved in the pathophysiology of CD (Shanahan 1998; Cabarrocas et at. 2003) and it
is probable that these are caused by MAP.


6.8 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
Much research is needed to identify the environmental compartments, habitats
and pathways of MAP, as well as the effect on MAP physiology and evolution,
of intracellular trafficking through protozoa. Much research is also needed to
identify the detailed distribution of MAP infection in animals and humans and
to develop a range of preventative and therapeutic vaccines.




Acknowledgements
This work was supported in part, in the UK by grants from the Medical
Research Council, the Natural Environment Research Council and the charity
Action Medical Research, and in the USA by the NIH grant DK63092 and the
Research Service ofthe Department of Veterans Affairs, Houston, TX.
   7

  Disseminated infection, cervical
  adenitis and other MAC infections
  C.F von Reyn, A. Pozniak, W Haas and G. Nichols




 7.1 DISSEMINATED MAC INFECTION
 7.1.1 Clinical aspects
Disseminated infection with organisms of the MAC was first recognized in
immunocompromised patients, including those with hairy cell leukaemia or on
steroid therapy (Horsburgh et al. 1985). Subsequently, disseminated MAC was
identified as a common complication of advanced AIDS (Zakowski et al. 1982).
Patients with disseminated MAC typically present with a chronic wasting illness
characterized by several weeks of fever, night sweats, malaise and weight loss.
Abdominal pain and diarrhoea may also be seen (Horsburgh 1991; Benson &
Ellner 1993). Laboratory studies demonstrate anaemia in most patients and an
elevated alkaline phosphatase in a minority (Havlik et al. 1992).


© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
96                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

   In AIDS patients, M avium infection is acquired predominantly through the
gastrointestinal tract where it is able to translocate the intestinal mucosa, infect
and replicate in the submucosal macrophages, and cause bacteremia leading to
dissemination of the organism (McGarvey & Bermudez 2001). Pathological
studies show widespread distribution of organisms in the liver, spleen, bone
                                                  7
marrow and gastrointestinal tract with 10 _10 10 cfu/gm of tissue. Renal
involvement, possibly associated with nephrocalcinosis (Falkoff et al. 1987), and
inflammation of the peritoneum have also been reported in AIDS patients with
disseminated MAC infection (van der Reijden et al. 1989; Perazella et al. 1993).
   A characteristic feature is the presence of numerous acid-fast staining
organisms within foamy macrophages (Wong et al. 1985; Torriani et al. 1996).
The high organism burden is associated with persistent bacteraemia and the
diagnosis is typically confirmed by culture of blood or biopsy and staining of bone
marrow, liver or small bowel.
   Another clinical form of MAC disease has also been recognized in HIV
infection. HIV-infected patients with previously unrecognized or subclinical
M avium infection may experience an immune reconstitution syndrome within
two months of responding to HAART. This is a local inflammatory syndrome
distinct from disseminated MAC. Clinical features include cUlture-positive
lymphadenitis or other localized granulomatous disease, sometimes with draining
sinuses, and negative blood cultures for mycobacteria (DeSimone et al. 2000).


7.1.2 Microbiology
Most blood isolates from HIV patients with disseminated MAC are M avium.
Early studies using serotyping methods indicated that a majority of these strains
from the United States were serotype 4 or 8, with serotype 6 isolated from patients
in Scandinavian countries (Hoffner et al. 1990; Tsang et al. 1992). More recent
molecular studies have shown that M avium strains isolated from blood represent
phylogenetic lineages distinct from those among strains isolated from pulmonary
sources or the environment (Smole et al. 2002). An interesting and unique feature
of disseminated M avium infection complicating AIDS is that as many as 25% of
patients are infected simultaneously with two or more different strains (von Reyn
et al. 1995). This implies that patients are either infected from exposure to mixed
populations in a single environmental source or from multiple exposures to
singular populations in different environmental sources.


7.1.3 Epidemiology and risk factors
Disseminated M avium in HIV -negative people occurs primarily in patients with
identifiable defects in cellular immunity. Cases have been described among patients with
                   Disseminated Infection and Cervical Adenitis                         97

familial immunodeficiencies (especially hereditary defects in IFN-gamma receptors),
among patients with leukaemia (especially hairy cell leukaemia) and lymphoma, patients
on steroid therapy, patients with collagen vascular disease, and among bone marrow and
solid organ transplant recipients (Weinstein et al 1981; Horsburgh et al 1985; Bennett et
al. 1986; Newport et al. 1996; Roy & Weisdorf 1997; Barcat et al 1998; Nagy & Rubin
2001). Nonetheless, approximately 40% of illY-negative patients with disseminated
M avium have no identifiable immune defect (Horsburgh et al 1985).
    Among AIDS patients, the risk of disseminated M avium is related to the CD4 count
and disease occurs predominantly among patients with CD4 counts less than 75-
100/mm3 . In a large cohort of AIDS patients the overall risk of disseminated M avium
was found to be approximately 20% per year. Stratified by CD4 count the risk is
approximately 39% per year with a CD4 count of < 10, 30% for CD4 10-19, 20010 for
CD4 20-39, 15% for CD4 40-59, 8% for CD4 60-99 and 3% for CD4 100-199
(Nightingale et al1992).
    Epidemiological studies indicate that the risk of disseminated M avium in advanced
AIDS is high in developed countries and low or absent in developing countries (e.g. sub-
Saharan Africa) (von Reyn et al. 1996). It is not known if genetic factors or geographic
differences in mycobacterial immunity or pathogenicity of M avium stains may
contribute to this difference. MAC are present in the African environment (von Reyn et
al. 1993) and healthy African populations have significant rates of skin test reactivity to
MAC antigens (von Reyn et al 1993) suggesting that exposure to MAC does occur in
developing countries. The low rate of disseminated M avium in these settings is probably
best explained by a high rate of mycobacterial immunity conferred by cross- protection
from prior TB and or BCG immunization (von Reyn et at. 2002).
    Epidemiological studies of disseminated MAC in AIDS have consistently identified
several other risk factors for disease including prior Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia,
exposure to uncooked seafood and prior endoscopy (von Reyn et al. 1996,2002; Ristola
et al 1999). Showering has been identified as protective in two different studies, but this
finding remains unexplained (Horsburgh et al 1994; von Reyn et al 2002). Molecular
epidemiological studies have implicated recirculating hospital hot water systems as the
source of two clusters of cases (von Reyn et at. 1994).
    Detailed water exposure studies have failed to identity the dominant source of
exposure to MAC in illY infection. A study from Los Angeles identified M avium
isolates from hospital water that were identical to sputum isolates from non-AIDS
patients, but failed to identity water isolates identical to isolates from AIDS patients
(Aronson et al. 1999). In a recent study of 359 AIDS patients in the United States and
Finland, patient-directed potable water samples were cultured for MAC. Overall, 13% of
samples were positive for M avium, principally from home water supplies (von Reyn et
al. 2002). Recirculating hot water supplies had the highest risk of colonization (Arbeit,
unpublished) but there was no association between M avium colonization of a patient's
home water supply and the risk of disseminated MAC. Only 1 of 31 patients who
98                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

developed disseminated MAC was infected with a strain also present in their home water
source (toilet bowl water) (von Reyn et al. 2002).
    Studies have also explored the possible role of other environmental sources. M avium
was isolated from potting soil in the homes of AIDS patients in California but typing
methods were only able to show that they were similar but not identical to corresponding
clinical isolates (Yajko et al. 1995). In an investigation of food products from the homes
of AIDS patients 1 of 121 food samples was found to have a PCR pattern identical to a
clinical isolate (Yoder et al. 1999).
    Collectively, these findings have been inteIpreted to indicate that the sources of
disseminated MAC in AIDS are diverse and probably not wholly identifiable or
avoidable.


7.1.4 Burden of disease
MAC disease is not reportable in the United States but passive surveillance data on
disseminated MAC are available for patients with AIDS. Prior to the advent of effective
prophylaxis against disseminated MAC in 1993, cases of disseminated MAC were
continuing to increase and outnumbered annual cases of TB in the United States. The
peak incidence of MAC in the United States was thought to have occurred in 1994 when
it was estimated that there were approximately 37000 people with disseminated MAC
(Horsburgh et al. 2001). Cases of disseminated MAC are now much less common and
occur principally among people with advanced AIDS who are not under medical care or
are non-compliant with HAART or MAC prophylaxis (Kovacs & Masur 2000).


7.1.5 Prevention and treatment
In the pre-HAART era disseminated M avium infection was associated with a mean four
to five month reduction in survival (Horsburgh et al. 1991; Chin et al. 1994). Treatment
of disseminated M avium with clarithromycin (or azithromycin) and ethambutol
increases the survival time of patients. Treatment must be continued indefinitely in
patients with advanced AIDS but may be safely discontinued after 12 months in those
who are also treated with HAART and experience immune reconstitution (defined as an
                                     3
increase in CD4 count to > 100/mm for at least six months) (Aberg et at. 1998; CDC
2002).
   Disseminated M avium can be prevented in AIDS patients with CD4 counts
< 50/mm3 by the administration of antibiotic prophylaxis with clarithromycin or
azithromycin (Havlir et al. 1996; Benson et at. 2000). Treatment of AIDS with HAART
also eliminates the risk of disseminated MAC in most patients. Thus patients who have
been treated with HAART and have an increase in CD4 count to above 100/mm3 for
more than three months may be safely taken off antibiotic prophylaxis for MAC (CDC
2002).
                   Disseminated Infection and Cervical Adenitis                          99


7.2 CERVICAL ADENITIS
7.2.1 Clinical aspects
The link between NTM and cervical lymphadenitis was first described by Prissick in
1957 (prissick et al. 1957) when these organisms were isolated from cases of scrofulosis.
The first NTM species isolated was named after this lesion:
Mycobacteriumscrofolaceum. Today more than 100 mycobacterial species have been
described. Clinical classification separates them into three groups according to their
potential to cause diseases in humans: pathogenic; facultative pathogenic; and
non- pathogenic species. The most common presentation is cervical adenitis, from which
MAC is currently the most frequently isolated agent Table 7.1 lists the NTM species
most frequently encountered in mycobacterial lymphadenitis.
Table 7.1 Selected species of Mycobacterium isolated from cervical adenitis in children with
nonnaI immunity (in alphabetical order)
 Slow growing species                          Rapidly growing species
 Mycobacterium avium complex                   Mycobacterium abscessus

 Mycobacterium kansasii                        Mycobacterium chelonae

 Mycobacterium malmoense                       Mycobacterium fortuitum

 Mycobacterium scrofolaceum                    Mycobacterium xenopi

    MAC cervical adenitis usually presents as a unilateral, solid, swelling high in the neck
that in most cases is not painful to the touch. The overlaying skin might show a purplish
discoloration and sometimes a fistula has formed. This swelling is present over a longer
period of time (weeks to months) and unresponsive to antibiotic treatment (Wolinsky
1995). Ultrasound examination usually shows no necrolysis and small calcifications
might suggest mycobacterial disease. In immune-competent children the disease remains
localized, the child appears well and further studies including chest x-ray and blood
chemistry are unremarkable.
    The most important issue for diagnosis is the differentiation of TB and non-
tuberculous disease. In MAC adenitis there is no history of exposure to TB. Skin testing
for TB usually shows positive results, even strongly positive reactions in some cases, but
might also be variable (Chesney 2002). Thus PPD skin testing does not differentiate
between tuberculous disease and MAC cervical adenitis. Also, histopathological changes
in immune-competent children do not differ significantly. In addition, mixed infections
caused by M tuberculosis and NTM have been described.
    Acid-fast staining is not species specific and has a low sensitivity. The gold standard
for diagnosis of mycobacterial disease is the isolation of the pathogen by culture. Modem
100                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

culture techniques have increased the sensitivity of culture isolation of NTM to about
50%. In addition, the time for a positive culture could be decreased to an average of two
to three weeks. Nucleic acid amplification tests to detect MAC and other mycobacterial
pathogens directly from the specimen are available. They should only be used as an
addition to conventional culture, as they exhibit a lower sensitivity. Susceptibility testing
of the isolated mycobacterium is not standardized and - with the possible exception of
susceptibility to the newer macrolides (clarithromycin, azithromycin) - does not
contribute much to the therapeutic decision (American Thoracic Society Statement
1997).


7.2.2 Epidemiology and risk factors
The epidemiological information on mycobacterial cervical adenitis in
immunocompetent children is based on a number of case series performed over different
periods of time in different geographical regions. A hallmark review by Wolinsky - and
its follow-up publication 16 years later - found this disease mostly among young children
below five years of age. Girls were more often affected than boys. The initial
manifestation started more often in the winter months, sometimes preceded by an upper
respiratory tract infection (Wolinsky 1979, 1995). Other studies also showed an
intriguing age distribution of mycobacterial adenitis: while in infants and small children
the majority of cases are caused by MAC or other NTM, children older than 10-12 years
of age and young adults usually suffer from tuberculous lesions.
    There are characteristic differences in the geographical distnbution of the species.
While MAC is the most common pathogen found in cervical adenitis on a worldwide
scale, M malmoense is the second most frequently isolated organism in Europe. In the
United States however, M scrofolaceum is second and M malmoense is rarely isolated
(Benjamin 1987; Clark et al. 1994; Grange et al. 1995; Wolinsky 1995; Suskind et al.
1997).
    In western countries with a low incidence ofTB (below 20 per 100000 population)
most studies demonstrate a ratio of non-tuberculous to tuberculous mycobacterial
adenitis of 4:1 (Wallace et al. 1990; Inderlied 1993; Chesney 2002). However, in other
countries scrofula is still caused almost exclusively by TB. It has also been suggested that
there might be a negative correlation with BCG vaccination in infancy. This suggestion
is supported by the efficacy ofBCG in prevention ofleprosy.
    The maturation of the cellular immune response seems to be responsible for the age
distribution in non-tuberculous disease. However, it remains unclear why only a small
number of children develop clinical disease even though the organisms are ubiquitous in
the environment. The genetic analysis of the syndrome of "mendelian susceptibility to
mycobacterial disease", first described by Casanova et al. has elucidated some of the
underlying specific pathways predisposing to mycobacterial disease (lL-12, JNFy)
(Altare et al. 1998; Casanova et al., 1999). Other deficiencies in cellular immune defence
                   Disseminated Infection and Cervical Adenitis                          101

such as HNIAIDS also predispose to disease progression and generalized disease. In
addition, iatrogenic immune suppression and - in pulmonary disease - morphological
and pathophysiological factors might trigger disease.


7.23 Morbidity/mortality
Diseases caused by NTM are not routinely reported in most countries. An exception is
Sweden, where incidence data have been published for birth cohorts between 1969 and
1990. During this time an increase in the incidence rate from 1 to 5.7 per 100000
children younger than 5 years of age was reported (Romanus et al. 1995). A similar trend
has been reported from clinical observations and laboratory data for other countries,
where incidence data are not available (Kuth et al. 1995).


7.2.4 Burden of disease
As there is little infonnation about the morbidity caused by mycobacterial adenitis; for
most countries, the burden of disease can only be speculated. Even though,
mycobacterial adenitis is a rare disease, it seems to be increasing in western countries.
This might even happen more rapidly in countries that have stopped BCG vaccination
because of the low incidence ofTB (Romanus et al. 1995). Furthermore, the long-term
effect of mycobacterial adenitis and other non-tuberculous disease remains to be studied.
One current hypothesis suggests that infection with NTM disease in childhood might
play a role in triggering diseases such as CD (Hermon-Taylor et al 1998; see also
Chapter 6).


7.2.5 Prevention and treatment
As NTM are ubiquitous, prevention of exposure seems to be difficult, if not impossible,
to achieve. For the development of strategies for prevention more surveillance data are
needed to estimate the impact of other factors such as BCG vaccination or regional
differences on the long-term trend.
    As MAC and other NTM species are resistant to antituberculous drugs and most
antibiotics, the treatment of choice in localized disease still consists of complete excision
of the diseased lymph nodes (Schaad et al. 1979; Starke et al 1995). However,
depending on the relationship to other anatomical structures, especially the mandibular
branches of the facial nerve, surgical intervention carries the risk of transitory or
permanent damage to these structures. If the affected nodes cannot be surgically removed
or are (inadvertently) drained during the process, local reactivation is likely to occur. In a
number of cases, total excision is not feasible and therefore a combined approach
including antimycobacterial chemotherapy is used. Usually a triple therapy consisting of
a new generation macrolide, a rifamycin derivative, and ethambutol is prescribed for a
102                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

period of more than six months. However, there are no large blind randomized trials
about the best treatment regimen.
    In generalized and reactivated disease the initial treatment approach consists of
combination chemotherapy. If surgical revision is indicated - for example because of
fistula formation - the procedure requires a very experienced surgeon.


7.3 TENOSYNOVITIS
Soft tissue infections with MAC in immunocompetent patients are rare, but a number of
cases of tenosynovitis have been reported, usually following local surgery, trauma or
corticosteroid administration (Hellinger et al. 1995; see also Chapter 8).


7.4 OSTEOMYELITIS AND SEPTIC ARTHRITIS
Multifocal osteomyelitis caused by MAC has been identified in three patients with a
genetic defect of the interferon-gamma receptor and a family history of infections with
NTM (Arend et al. 2001). Patients had a delayed diagnosis and a protracted illness that
responded slowly to multi-drug treatment. In one patient, additional treatment with IFN-
gamma was necessary. Macrophages from patients had a reduced responsiveness to IFN-
gamma and were heterozygous for a dominant negative mutation in the gene encoding
the IFN-gamma binding receptor-l chain. The infections were limited to skin, bone and
lymph nodes. Recurrent MAC osteomyelitis has been associated with a deletion at the
818 residue of the interferon-gamma receptor (Villella et al. 2001). Osteomyelitis and
septic arthritis can occur in apparently immunocompetent children (Frosch et al., 2000)
and adults (Jones et al. 1995; Mahan & Jolles 1995; Pombo et al. 1998; Weiner et al.
1998; Weigl & Haas 2000; Bridges & McGarry 2002). A case of MAC spinal epidural
abscess without vertebral osteomyelitis has been reported in a patient with AIDS
(Rotstein & Stuckey 1999). Primary septic arthritis and osteomyelitis can occur in AIDS
patients (Blumenthal et al. 1990; Sheppard & Sullam 1997). Osteomyelitis caused by
MAC may be recurrent (Mahan & Jolles 1995; Kourtis et al. 1996) and occasionally
disseminated (Bender & Yunis 1980; Collert et al. 1983; Zammarchi et al. 1987; Kwong
etal.199l).
    Osteomyelitis can follow trauma (Walz & Crosby 1995), surgery, steroid therapy
(pirofsky et al. 1993) and sarcoidosis (Sato et al. 1992) and is more common in old age
(Tanaka et al. 1993).
    In disseminated MAC infection the organism may be recovered from bone marrow
samples (Ohse et al. 1997). Although this can lead to osteomyelitis, this does not appear
to result from such colonization in most cases.
                   Disseminated Infection and Cervical Adenitis                        lO3


7.S :MENINGITIS
MAC infections rarely involve the central nervous system, even in patients with widely
disseminated disease (Jacob et al 1993; Gyure et al 1995). On the rare occasions when
the central nervous system is involved, MAC is the most common NTM cause of
meningitis and has a high mortality rate (Jacob et al. 1993; Gyure et aI. 1995; Weiss et al
1995; Flor et al. 1996).


7.6 PANCREATIC INFECTION
Pancreatic infection with MAC is rare but can occur in children with HIV infection
(Horsburgh et al 1994; Kahn et al. 1995).


7.7 SARCOIDOSIS
Mycobacteria, including MTB, MAC and MAP have been implicated in the
development of sarcoidosis. Molecular methods to demonstrate mycobacterial nucleic
acid in tissues from patients with sarcoidosis have had mixed results (Ikonomopoulos et
al. 1999; Li et al. 1999; Eishi et al 2(02), although M avium and MTB sequences have
been found in such tissues (Li et al. 1999).


7.8 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
Cases of disseminated M avium in AIDS have become sufficiently unusual that further
epidemiologic studies in this population are not likely to be fruitful. Epidemiologic
studies have not been conducted to identifY possible sources of disseminated M avium
infection among HIV-negative patients with defects in cellular immunity. These cases
are also rare but epidemiologic studies might explore possible nosocomial transmission
from potable water. Nosocomial transmission of M avium has occurred among AIDS
patients (von Reyn et al. 1994) and nosocomial transmission of other NTM has also been
confirmed using molecular methods among various other patient groups (phillips & von
Reyn 2001). Thus molecular epidemiologic studies of disseminated M avium in HIV-
negative populations might focus on hospital water supplies and procedures with
demonstrated potential for nosocomial transmission ofNTM.
   Further work on the epidemiology of lymphadenitis is needed to improve our
understanding of the routes of transmission and to aid the design of preventative
measures.
8
Skin, bone and soft tissue infections
MA. De Groote and P. Johnson




This chapter describes the multiple environmental mycobacteria species that can
cause skin, bone and soft tissue infections. The etiologic organisms,
environmental exposures and clinical presentations will be highlighted.
   Infection can occur after traumatic inoculation, as part of a disseminated
infection, or from a medical or cosmetic procedure. Risk factors include certain
hobbies and occupations as well as various forms of immunosuppression. The
source of exposure for skin and soft tissue infection by PEM is usually water or
soil: person-to-person transmission has not been demonstrated.
   An important cause of skin and soft tissue infection is the agent responsible
for BU. BU is the third major mycobacterial disease of man after TB and
leprosy. The name derives from a region in Uganda where the disease was
common in the 1960s and 1970s (Barker 1972). The responsible bacterium,
Mycobacterium uZcerans, produces a toxin called mycolactone that causes
necrosis of skin and subcutaneous fat and has immunosuppressive properties
(George et aZ. 1999). Sufferers ofBU are generally healthy individuals with no
known underlying immune defect.
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, O. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
                       Skin, bone and soft tissue infections                  105

   Additional details regarding skin infections can be found in the chapter
dealing with invasive devices and procedure (Chapter 10). For the interested
reader, an excellent review on NTM infections of the skin has recently been
published (Weitzul et al. 2000).


8.1 CLINICAL ASPECTS
PEM can cause a variety of skin and skin structure infections. The clinical
presentation can be quite variable. Most patients are relatively healthy and
acquire disease from minor trauma with exposure to the environment (soil or
water). Lesions tend to be fairly indolent, but severe disease can occur. The
initial exposure can be hard to track as the incubation period can be quite long.
Disseminated disease should alert the clinician to an immunocompromising
condition such as malignancy, medications used to suppress the immune system,
HlV or defects in cytokine pathways (IL-12 and gamma-interferon). Some of
the organisms involved require special knowledge of optimal cultivation
methods in the laboratory. Examples of a few of the major species and the
nature of the disease they cause are described below.


8.1.1 M. marinum
M marinum skin infections have been observed in people who own aquaria,
people who work with water, and those who use water for recreational purposes
(Huminer et al. 1986). It has been associated with both salt and fresh water
exposures. Certain occupations such as aquatic farming represent a high-risk
group. Also, farmers and nursery garden workers appear to be at greater risk.
    Several studies of disease caused by M marinum have been reported. In
Australia, 29 patients were reported with M marinum infection following
trauma and exposure to an aquatic or timber source (Iredell et al. 1992). In a
study from Chesapeake Bay, USA, Hoyt et al. (1989) reported infection
predominantly in males and that cutaneous infection was most common. In
contrast, Edelstein (1994) found that in northern California over 50% of the
victims with skin infections due to M marinum were female. The major risk
factor for infection was contact with fish tanks. A large outbreak of B. balnei
(later identified as M marinum) infection was identified in an open-air hot
springs pool (Collins et al. 1985). In this outbreak, and others like it, skin
lesions were predominantly located on the elbows and less often the knee, foot,
finger and toes. Skin lesions were often superficial and verrucal. Acid-fast stain
is often negative in biopsy and drainage samples. Lymphadenopathy is unusual
but does occur (Huminer et al. 1986). Most lesions healed spontaneously. A
106                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

positive skin test to tuberculin has been reported even long after the lesions
healed (Judson & Feldman 1974).
    There is often a delay between the development of symptoms and proper
diagnosis of sporadic cases. The lesions of these infections can be variable in
presentation but they often begin as a reddish violaceous nodule that goes on to
ulcerate. A common presentation is nodular lymphangitis (or sporotrichoid
spread) consisting of subcutaneous nodules with satellite lesions that can ascend
up the extremity by lymphangitic spread (Wolinsky et al. 1972). While the
finding of sporotrichoid disease can be seen in other infectious (including
mycobacterial diseases), it has been particularly well described with
M marinum. The most frequent location is the right middle finger. Disease is
most often limited to the skin but can cause adjacent joint and tendon infections.
In addition to nodules, cutaneous lesions include pustules, verrucous lesions, red
plaques, abscesses, seromas and ulcers. Synovitis and arthritis are seen rarely.
Dissemination can occur in the immunocompromised host (Gombert et al. 1981;
King et al. 1983; Enzenauer et al. 1990; Tchomobay et al. 1992; Parent et al.
1995; Holmes et al. 1999; Enzensberger et al. 2002). Pathologic specimens
reveal granulomas which can be non-caseating; there can be suppurative
inflammation, micro-abscesses and necrosis. The immunocompromised patient
may have less well-formed granulomas.
    Often acid-fast staining of tissue or drainage is negative and the diagnosis is
made by culture. The organism has a growth temperature optimum of 30-32 DC,
Diagnosis is usually suggested on clinical grounds, but identification of the
organism in the laboratory is crucial. Clinicians should inform the laboratory of
the suspicion of the organisms so that the laboratory can set up the material for
mycobacterial culture at lower temperature in addition to routine cultivation
procedures. Susceptibility tests can be performed once the isolate has been
grown. Lesions in the immunocompetent host can resolve spontaneously;
however, most experts would begin combination antimicrobial therapy when a
diagnosis is made. Agents that have been used include ri famp in, ethambutol,
trimethoprimlsulfamethoxazole,        clarithromycin,     fluoroquinolones     and
doxycycline/minocycline. Success has been reported with trimethopriml
sulfamethoxazole alone. Consultation with an experienced surgeon may be
indicated for the removal of infected and devitalized tissues. The optimal
duration of therapy is unknown, although three to six months is normally the
minimum; many experts recommend a longer course. Tendon and joint infection
requires longer periods of therapy with the use of surgical debridement if
chemotherapy alone is not successful (Aubry et al. 2002). In the hand, surgical
treatment is often required to control the infection. Occasionally, heat is applied
to the limb in an attempt to inhibit the organism's growth (Sutherland et al.
1980).
                        Skin, bone and soft tissue infections                     107


8.1.2 Rapidly Growing Mycobacteria
Infection of the skin and soft tissues with RGM is not uncommon ryv all ace et al.
1992). In a recent case control study of M jortuitum furunculosis associated with
footbaths in California, the risks for acquiring infection was related to shaving the
legs with a razor before pedicure (odds ratio 4.8) ryvinthrop et al. 2002).
Microabrasion with the razor could explain the portal of entry. Cultures of salon tap
water yielded other species of RGM (M abscessuslchelonae). Cultures from the
footbaths yielded M jortuitum. Some were indistinguishable from the clinical
isolates on the basis of PFGE. Some of the infections reported in these individuals
were associated with severe scarring furunculosis. This important large community
outbreak, and prior reports of rapidly growing mycobacterium skin infections
associated with hot tubs and public baths, highlight the important role that
waterborne mycobacterial pathogens play in skin infection (Aubuchon et al. 1986;
Lee et al. 2000a). The frequency of isolation of these pathogens and the burgeoning
nail salon and cosmetic industry suggests that additional cases may occur.
    Injection site abscesses have been reported, most often secondary to
M abscessus. Other rapidly growing species such as M chelonae, M smegmatis
and M jortuitum have also been implicated in a variety of similar situations. These
have often occurred as the result of iatrogenic exposures, cosmetic procedures and
complications related to alternative medicine practices ryvallace et al. 1983;
Safranek et al. 1987; Camargo et al. 1996; Murillo et al. 2000). M abscessus
tenosynovitis has been reported in a health care worker who had a penetrating iIljury
due to a contaminated scalpel ryvolinsky 1992). M abscessus is one of the most
common causes of post-surgical mycobacteria infections, especially after plastic
surgery. M abscessus and M jortuitum have caused skin infections after iatrogenic
procedures such as liposuction, facial blepharoplasty, augmentation mammoplasty
and other cosmetic procedures (refer to Chapter 10). A common finding in
M abscessus infections of the skin is the formation of violaceous to red tender
nodules that can form fistula. Fistula formation can be severe and can track to the
surface in multiple sites.
    Therapy for RGM infections is generally guided by in vitro antimicrobial
susceptibility testing. Clarithromycin, cefoxitin and amikacin are among the most
effective antimycobacterial agents for M abscessus. Single-drug therapy with
clarithromycin has been effective but failures have been reported due to the
emergence of drug resistance (Vemulapalli et al. 2001). Susceptibility tests for the
rapid growing species can also be used to guide therapy to other potentially effective
agents such as trimethoprimlsulfamethoxazole and doxycycline, and
fluoroquinolones. As with other infections, skilled surgical debridement of necrotic
tissues and subsequent wound management is important in the successful outcome
of many of these infections.
108                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    Other reported cutaneous manifestations of M abscessus include Sweet
syndrome and nodular panniculitis (Rotman et al. 1993; Choonhakam et al. 1998;
Retief & Tharp 1998; Bowenkamp et al. 2001). Sweet syndrome presents with
fever, elevated white blood cells, erythematous plaque-like skin papules and
neutrophi1s on histopathology. A recent report of disseminated disease due to
M abscessus manifest as lymphadenopathy and various organ involvement due to
RGM revealed a high incidence of Sweet syndrome (Chetchotisakd et al. 2000).
These patients were seronegative for HIV. Suspicion of a defect in cell-mediated
immunity was raised but not confmned.


8.1.3 Mycobacterium avium complex
Both M intracellulare and M avium have been reported to cause cutaneous, joint,
tendon and skeletal disease. Isolated lesions tend to be nodules, which rarely
ulcerate. There can also be tenosynovitis, panniculitis, fasciitis, or synovitis.
Typically the infections have been localized to soft tissues of the anterior surface of
the hand and wrists. Tenosynovitis frequently involves the upper extremity and is a
result of inoculation following minor trauma. Incubation times between the event
and the presentation to a health care provider can be substantial. The antecedent
source is often not clear, and diagnosis can be difficult. Patients are frequently
misdiagnosed with arthritis or other inflammatory conditions and have received
systemic or local injection of corticosteroids before a proper mycobacterio10gy
diagnosis is made (Hellinger et al. 1995; Zenone et al. 1999). This can aggravate the
disease. The right distal extremity is more often affected. The typical patient is
immunocompetent and in the fifth to seventh decades of life. Men and women
appear fairly equally affected (Hellinger et al. 1995). Symptoms include swelling
and violaceous to red discoloration of the overlying skin. The lesions can be tender.
Surgical debridement is an important component of diagnosis and therapy. During
the operation, the finding of "rice bodies" is felt to be characteristic of mycobacterial
infection (Sanger et al. 1987). Pathology of tendon infection shows chronic
tenosynovitis often with granulomatous inflammation. Other mycobacterial causes
of tenosynovitis include M kansas ii, M jortuitum, M terrae, M chelonae,
M malmoense, M xenopi and M abscessus (Zenone et al. 1999).
    MAC is a rare cause of osteomyelitis and can occur in both immunocompetent
and immunocompromised hosts (Chan et al. 2001; see also Chapter 7). Localized
pain, immobility and, if disseminated disease is present, fever, night sweats and
weight loss can occur (Marchevsky et al. 1985).
    Cutaneous manifestations of MAC infection also include disseminated disease in
patients who have defects in immune function including AIDS. Those with severely
depressed CD4 cells are most at risk. Since MAC, M haemophilum, M szulgai,
M tuberculosis and other species have been reported to cause skin manifestations in
                        Skin, bone and soft tissue infections                        109

patients with AIDS, proper microbiological diagnosis is key for management of
these patients. Histopathologically, lesions in immunocompromised patients can be
atypical (Bartralot et af. 2000). While HAART to improve immune function is the
cornerstone in management of MAC infection in AIDS, clinicians should be aware
that osteoarticular, cutaneous, and other unusual disease presentations can also
develop or exacerbate when cellular immunity is restored (Nalaboff et af. 2000).
    The diagnosis should be clear for all the above infections if careful attention is
paid to proper biopsy, histopathology, microbial identification and susceptibility
testing. Therapy is complex and multiple drug-drug interactions occur especially for
patients taking other medications (such as HN therapy). Consultation with experts
in treating these infections is recommended. Therapy is typically continued for 12-
24 months and consists of multiple antibiotics typically including clarithromycin,
rifampin and ethambutol. Additional therapy such as an aminoglycoside (i.e.
arnikacin) is sometimes included for a limited time. In many cases, especially if
there is devitalized tissue, surgery can also contribute to curative therapy. In cases of
severe tenosynovitis of the wrist or hand, patients require extensive debridement
often along the entire length of the tendon sheath. Splinting immediately after the
procedure is often done and aggressive hand physical therapy as soon as wound
healing allows is often undertaken.


8.1.4 M. haemophilum
This organism is a fairly recently recognized pathogen and causes disseminated
cutaneous lesions in immunocompromised patients. The lesions often ulcerate. In
addition to the skin it can occur in bones, joints, lymphatics and lungs (Straus et af.
1994). The cutaneous lesions are violaceous and most often tender. Abscesses with
small amounts of serosanquinous drainage have been reported. The cutaneous
lesions can be multiple and tend to cluster on the extremities (Dever et af. 1992).
They also frequently overlie a joint. These findings are consistent with the
preference of the organism for lower growth temperatures. In contrast to
M marinum, the distribution is typically not sporotrichoid. People at risk are those
with defects in cellular immune function such as those with HN, transplants,
lymphoma or those taking medications to suppress immune function. In one study,
infection presented a mean of 16 months after an AIDS diagnosis (Straus et af.
1994). Pathology shows minor necrosis, poorly formed granulomas and both
extracellular and intracellular acid-fast organisms. In the laboratory,
M haemophifum is fastidious, requires iron-supplemented growth media, and has a
lower temperature for incubation than most other mycobacteria. These facts have
likely resulted in a lower historical detection rate. M haemophifum infections have
been sporadic and the reservoirs and mode of transmission are not clear.
110                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


8.1.5 M. ulcerans
BU due to M ufcerans is a great public threat In certain geographical regions the
incidence ofBU is increasing. Children are disproportionately affected. Rates in some
villages in Africa are greater than 15% (Marston et af. 1995). New data has implicated
an aquatic insect in the transmission of the disease and this may be the basis for
beginning a control programme (Marsollier et af. 2002).
    BU is painless and slow to develop. A typical Buruli lesion is an extensive, deeply
undermined skin ulcer that heals by scarring. There are other presentations including
nodules, plaques, oedematous swelling of a whole limb or the abdominal wall and
osteomyelitis (Buntine et af. 2002). Death due to BU is rare but permanent deformities
are common. The diagnosis of BU is likely if large numbers of acid-fast bacilli are
present in smears or histological sections obtained from a suspicious lesion. The
presence of M uZcerans can be rapidly confirmed by a specific and sensitive PCR
(Ross et af. 1997; Russell et af. 2002). Culture confirmation may take some weeks.
    Patients often delay seeking medical assistance until disease is advanced. The main
mode of treatment is surgery, with the aim of totally excising early lesions or, in
established disease, removing necrotic tissue and grafting the resulting defect There is
current interest in combination antibiotic therapy as an adjunct to surgery, or alone for
very early lesions (Etuaful et af. in press).


8.1.6 M. terrae
This complex of organisms (including M terrae,                        M trivafe and
M nonchromogenicum) is a rare cause of cutaneous infection (Zenone et af. 1999;
Bartralot et af. 2000). Tenosynovitis is the most commonly reported manifestation
(Smith et aZ. 2000). Pathological specimens reveal granulomas with
multinucleated giant cells.
    In common with several other mycobacterial infections, studies of empiric therapy
have not been done. Rifampin and ethambutol containing regimens tended to have a
better outcome but did not reach statistical significance (Smith et aZ. 2000). Some of
the predisposing exposures for skin/tendon infection presented in the literature include
fanning, fish tanks and gardening, and other soil exposures.


8.2 OVERALL BURDEN OF DISEASE
BU is an important disease because the incidence is increasing, it is expensive to treat,
and it is most common in regions that lack advanced medical facilities. For example, a
recent study has estimated the cost per case in Ghana at 780 USD (Asiedu 1998). BU
has become a major burden for poor agricultural communities in West Africa. In
Australia, one of the very few Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
                         Skin, bone and soft tissue infections                        111

Development countries where transmission of M ulcerans occurs, the cost per case
has been conservatively estimated at 12 000 USD (Drummond 1998).
    A recent report from Ghana has estimated a national prevalence of20.71100 000 in
1999 (Amofah 2002). In one highly endemic region in Ghana an annual incidence of
280/100 000 was reported - higher than TB in the same region (Ragunathan et al.
2001). The disease rates in Uganda have been estimated at 2-5% of the population and
in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana; the rates in some villages have been estimated at 16% and
22% respectively (Amofah et al. 1993; Marston et al. 1995). Disabilities resulting
from BU disease are severe and it has been estimated that 25% of cases are left with
some disability in Cote d'Ivoire (Marston et al. 1995) and 58% in a recent study in
Ghana (Ellen et al. 2003).
    The global burden ofBU has not been established but concern about the emergence
ofBU prompted WHO to create a specific programme for BU in 1998 (GBUI: Global
Buruli Ulcer Initiative).
    Disease due to PEM is not reportable in the Unites States. Ascertaining the precise
incidence and prevalence data is therefore not possible. While some general
conclusions can be gleaned by looking at laboratory-based surveys, such surveys have
significant limitations. It is difficult to detennine how many patients are involved given
that the reporting is culture-based, not patient-based, and a single individual may have
more than one specimen submitted. However, since 1993 a Public Health Laboratory
Information System method of reporting by State Health Departments has proved
useful for tabulating data on the environmental mycobacteria. The popUlation under
study are those patients in the United States who have had a specimen submitted for
evaluation. Only one isolate for each patient was recorded. Compared to historical
rates, it appears that the incidence of M marinum and M haemophilum has increased
(Bean et al. 1992; Dobos et al. 1999).


8.3 DISTRIBUTION
Mycobacteria are found in soil and water and often (but not always) the inoculation
event can be traced to a specific exposure. In many of the infections due to these
organisms transmission occurs via minor trauma to the skin. For M marinum and
M ulcerans, water appears to be the major source. For M haemophilum, water has
been suggested as a source but the actual reservoir is not completely understood.
Patients infected with other species ofPEM may have acquired the infection from soil,
water or an otherwise unknown source.
   While mycobacterial skin disease is believed to be worldwide, certain infections
have limited geographic occurrences. BU has been reported in many tropical and some
temperate countries, and it is endemic in parts of sub-Saharan Africa. There are also
established foci in the Americas, Asia, Australia and Papua New Guinea (Asiedu et al.
2000).
112                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


8.4 DESCRIPTIVE EPIDEMIOLOGY
Infection is acquired from the environment and person-to-person spread has not been
described. Systematic studies of the epidemiology of infections have not been done.
For a few ofthe infections, some general comments can be made.
    BU endemic areas are usually near tropical marshes, rivers or lakes but
transmission also occurs in temperate southern Australia (Horsburgh 1997). BU is
typically unevenly distributed within an endemic country. New areas of micro-
endemicity may appear unpredictably (Johnson et al. 1996).
    Unlike TB and leprosy, BU is contracted by exposure to a contaminated
environment rather than from infected people. Most patients with BU are children
below the age of 15. A study from Amansie West in Ghana reported the median age as
12 years, with 49% of cases aged 10-14 years. Only 20% were over 50 years old
(Amofah et al. 1993). Recent reports from Benin suggest that there is also an increased
attack rate of BU in the elderly, resulting in an age-specific incidence similar to that
observed for TB (F. Portaels, personal communication). The precise mode of
transmission has not been established, but recent work has suggested that aquatic
insects and biofilms attached to aquatic plants harbour M ulcerans (Marsollier et al.
2002). Transmission of M ulcerans from infected insects to laboratory mice has been
demonstrated, but whether this is how humans become infected remains unknown.
Transmission by aerosol or through direct contact with contaminated soil has also been
proposed. It is possible that more than one mode of transmission exists. It has been
suggested that environmental changes such as logging, mining and nutrient enrichment
of waterways is contributing to the spread ofBU.
    Recent serological data from Australia has suggested that the rate of household
exposure to M ulcerans within endemic areas may be quite high (Gooding et al.
2002). It is not understood why some individuals are affected while the majority
remain disease free. There is no convincing evidence of an increased incidence ofBU
in patients with HN, diabetes or medically induced immunosuppression.
    In the majority of reports the mean age of people with M marinum is the fourth to
fifth decade of life and Caucasian males are most commonly affected. Trends in rates
of infection are largely unknown; however the recorded incidence of M haemophilum
may increase as culture methods improve and as clinicians become more aware of the
organism.


8.S RISK FACTORS
Most infections are thought to occur by local inoculation as a result of accidental or
unapparent trauma. Local steroid injections can also worsen undiagnosed skin
infections that have occurred as a result of trauma. These infections can occur in
immunologically normal individuals.
                          Skin, bone and soft tissue infections                           113

    The main risk factor for BU is contact with an endemic region. The period of
exposure can be very short, but most affected people are residents of these areas. There
is circumstantial evidence that wearing clothing (trousers) may be protective (Marston
eta!' 1995).
    Exposure to contaminated solutions or devices is another risk factor for other PEM
and iatrogenic infections are dealt with in the invasive procedures chapter (Chapter
10). In severely immunocompromised patients, it is likely that the skin lesions have
occurred as a result ofhaematogenous dissemination rather than direct inoculation. In
summary, immunodeficiency, abnormal defensive barriers as a result of skin injury
and exposure to certain sources (i.e. soil, water and contaminated solutions or devices)
are risk factors associated with infection.


8.6 CAUSALITY AND ASSOCIATED MICROBES
Table 8.1 contains a list of PEM species that have been reported to cause skin
infections:


Table 8.1 Classification ofPEM species that have been reported to cause skin infections (Based
on the criteria ofRunyon*)

     Class                                      Species name
     Photochromogens                            M marinum
                                                M kansasii
     Scotochrornogens                           M scrofolaceum
                                                Mszulgai
     Non-photochromogens                        Mavium
                                                M intracellulare
                                                Mulcerans
                                                M haemophilum
                                                M terrae complex
                                                Mxenopi
     Rapidly growing species                    M abscessus
                                                M chelonae
                                                Mfortuitum
                                                M smegmatis
*Runyon criteria: Rapid growers grow in seven days or less. Scotochromogens produce pigment
when grown in the dark as well as upon exposure to light. Photochromogens produce pigment
when exposed to light but not when grown in the dark. Nonchromogens do not produce pigment
even after light exposure.
114                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


8.7 KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
In common with other mycobacterial infections, it will be important to systematically
study the epidemiology and causative microbes. To achieve this, standard case
definitions and accurate microbial identification should be emphasized. Use of new
molecular tools for species identification and for strain typing of clinical and
environmental isolates to understand the epidemiology is important. The prognostic
value of in vitro antibiotic susceptibility tests for clinical outcome needs to be
determined for these and other PEM infections. Given the small numbers of cases in
single centres, multicentre studies will be necessary. Since therapy is toxic and
expensive, determining the proper agents and duration of therapy will be important.
Encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop better antimycobacterial therapy is
important Studies are required into the role of topical therapy and the use of antibiotic-
impregnated polymethacrylate beads and cement placed intraoperatively as a means of
attaining a higher local concentration of the antibiotic. If newer potent agents were
developed it may lessen the need for such long-term courses of therapy. Elucidation of
the reservoirs for M haemophilum and other species will be illustrative. Study of the
climatic and other environmental changes that may predispose to favourable
conditions allowing these emerging pathogens to exist is an important avenue of future
research. Additional studies of unique species-specific virulence factors, host tropism,
environmental niches and modes of transmission will be a fruitful area of investigation
with far -reaching benefits for patients.
9
Pulmonary infection in non-HIV
infected individuals
MA. De Groote




PEM are an important cause of pulmonary disease and the incidence is
increasing in areas around the globe. With certain species the disease may have
latitudinal preferences (refer to section 9.3). Although the clinical manifestation
of pulmonary infection with PEM can resemble TB, the disease is very different
because the host acquires infection by exposure to environment sources of these
organisms (e.g. the water and soil). In contrast, disease due to MTB is
predominantly spread person to person. Thus TB will not be discussed here
except when it is pertinent to understanding certain host predisposing conditions
for PEM infection and as it relates to situations of prior exposures and
cross-immunity.
    The causative microbial agents for PEM disease are numerous. The majority
of the description in this chapter will deal with infection due to members of the
MAC, given the preponderance of this organism causing disease. Unless

© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences. Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: 1 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
116                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

otherwise specified, MAC is the prototypical infection referred to in the text.
However, when appropriate, other species will be highlighted.
   Clinically, PEM infection can range from asymptomatic, indolent disease
with minimal clinical symptoms to rapidly destructive pneumonic disease with
significant morbidity and mortality. Therapy for these infections is difficult and
often associated with toxicity and expense. For reasons that are not understood,
extrapu1monary dissemination is strikingly rare when the systemic immune
system is intact, despite very advanced pulmonary disease. Because PEM are
ubiquitous in the environment, actual pulmonary disease needs to be
differentiated from colonization or contamination in the laboratory. Finding
environmental mycobacteria in respiratory secretions requires supportive
clinical (symptoms, signs and radiographic evidence of disease) and
microbiological evidence of infection before treatment is commenced.
Practically, the decision to treat is sometimes very difficult and requires a
mutual understanding between the patient and the responsible physician.
Occasionally, when complex situations arise due to diagnostic or therapeutic
uncertainties, the patient can be referred to an institution with experience in
treating these infections. In this chapter, data will be presented detailing the
geographical variation in environmental mycobacterial infection and potential
explanations for these observations will be discussed. This topic is also dealt
with in the chapters 2 and 3. For the interested reader, there have been a number
of excellent reviews on the subject of pulmonary environmental mycobacterial
infections (Griffith 1997, 2002; Iseman 2002).


9.1 CLINICAL ASPECTS
Acquisition of pulmonary infection most likely occurs by the aerosol route.
Given the prevalence of PEM in the environment, exposure must be fairly
universal. The steps that follow and the determinants of in whom disease takes
hold are not completely understood. After disease develops, the symptoms can
include cough, sputum production, fatigue, weight loss, sweats, haemoptysis,
pleuritic and non-pleuritic chest pain. Occasionally symptoms are out of
proportion to the amount of disease seen radiographically. For example, patients
with significant disease noted on chest radiograph can be surprisingly
asymptomatic or those with minimal changes can have debilitating symptoms.
Fever is unusual unless bacterial superinfection occurs; however, the presence
of another pathogenic organism in the sputum does not always predict the
presence of fever. Often it is difficult to sort out symptoms due to the underlying
lung diseases (e.g. dyspnea associated with emphysema or sputum production
from underlying bronchiectasis) from those due to the underlying mycobacterial
infection.
                              Pulmonary infection                              117

    Confirmation of PEM in respiratory secretions is essential before
committing the patient to therapy. If sputum specimens are negative, many
clinicians will go on to bronchoscopy for diagnosis. Failure to recognize
infection and disease and thus withholding therapy may result in unnecessary
lung damage; nevertheless, pulmonary disease needs to be differentiated from
colonization, which does not require immediate therapy. M kansasii is thought
less likely to be a saprophyte when it is found in patients' respiratory secretions
than certain other species, although colonization can occur on rare occasions. In
1997, the American Thoracic Society published criteria for diagnosis and
treatment of disease caused by the nontuberculous mycobacteria. These criteria
are thought to be best suited for MAC, M kansasii and M abscessus. If a
patient presents with the appropriate clinical symptoms and radiographs, one of
the following criteria must be met for a microscopic diagnosis to be made
(American Thoracic Society 1997):

A        If 3 sputumslbronchial washings are available in last 12 months:
         a)        3 positive cultures with negative smears or
         b)       2 positive cultures and one positive smear

B        If only 1 bronchial wash available:
         a)        positive culture with 2+, 3+, or 4+ AFB smear or 2+, 3+, or
                   4+ growth on solid media

C        If sputumlbronchial wash evaluations are nondiagnostic or another
         disease cannot be excluded:
         a)       transbronchial or lung biopsy yielding PEM
         b)       biopsy showing mycobacterial histopathologic features
                  (granulomatous inflammation and/or AFB) and one or more
                  sputums or bronchial washings is positive for an NTM even in
                  low numbers.

    Expert opinion has varied regarding the usefulness of the above guideline
but it is included here given the important role these criteria have played over
the last few years by providing a standardized mechanism of diagnosis. In
addition, the emphasis on the crucial role of a strong microbiological diagnosis
is key to management of these patients. Once a diagnosis is made, the clinician
may continue to be challenged by many facets of management of these patients.
Respiratory secretions from these patients can harbour a complex suite of
organisms such as mixed mycobacterial species, fungi and other co-pathogenic
bacteria. This, too, can make appropriate antibiotic selection more difficult as
118                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

one tries to decide which organism is contributing the most towards
pathogenicity.
    The natural history of PEM lung disease is quite variable. There are two
prototypical descriptions of disease: an indolent (primary) form that tends to occur
in older non-smoking females and a more traditional form, which is usually
secondary to underlying structural lung disease. Interestingly, there seems to be a
shift in disease presentation from the secondary to the primary form.


9.1.1 Primary and Secondary Pathogenic Pulmonary
      Environmental Mycobacterial Infection
The epidemiology of PEM appears to be shifting from being predominantly a
disease of male smokers (usually with underlying emphysema) to one of
non-smoking older females with no obvious underlying lung disease. Given this
emerging appreciation of different subsets of patients with PEM disease, it is
useful to consider the infection as one of primary vs secondary infection in an
attempt to sort out the dynamic nature of PEM pulmonary diseases. PEM
pulmonary disease will be discussed in this chapter on the basis of "primary"
and "secondary" disease based on terminology first proposed by von Reyn, et
al. (2001). For the purpose of this monograph, primary disease will refer to the
absence of a recognized host predisposition for infection (i.e. no pre-existing
lung disease). Recently, a distinct syndrome of primary disease presenting as
nodular bronchiectasis has been recognized. In this setting, our current
understanding is that the mycobacteria are a cause of the disease manifestations
in previously healthy hosts. Secondary PEM disease, on the other hand, occurs
in the setting of a well recognized lung abnormality where the PEM takes
advantage of the host's pre-existing condition (i.e. it is an illustration of an
opportunistic pathogen). Examples of secondary PEM infection include prior
structural lung disease such as previous infection, emphysema and
bronchiectasis. Secondary disease is relatively common, accounting for up to
two thirds of disease in some reports. Regardless of whether PEM cause primary
or secondary illness, there is little doubt that PEM can contribute to ongoing
clinical illness and pulmonary dysfunction.

9.1.1.1 Primary PEM
In 1989 Prince and co-workers reported a subset of patients with pulmonary
PEM disease who had no underlying predisposition (Prince et al. 1989). They
found that 81 % were female, 86% were white and there was a mean age of 66
years. Since the original work by Prince et al., others have described the
occurrence of PEM in hosts without obvious predisposing conditions
                              Pulmonary infection                              119

(Chalermskulrat et al. 2002). The patients, similar to the original report, are
predominantly female non-smokers, and represent what appears to be a shift
from the predominantly male dominated cases of secondary infection presented
below (Rosenzweig 1979). These patients do not have obvious abnormalities in
lung or immune function. The overwhelming majority are white (or Asian)
women who present with nodular-bronchiectatic PEM disease (Reich & Johnson
1992; Kennedy & Weber 1994; Kubo et al. 1998; De Groote et al. 2001). In
fact, the range of female patients in recent studies is between 75-94%. The term
Lady Windermere's syndrome has been given to these patients based on the
character in Oscar Wilde's play Lady Windermere's Fan as her voluntary cough
suppression behaviour is considered to be the etiology behind not being able to
clear secretions properly (Reich & Johnson 1992). However, this designation
has been called into question (Iseman 1996). Whatever the etiology for this
process, many experts and reports suggest that there has been a shift to female-
predominant primary PEM disease. Most present in the fifth to eighth decade of
life. Nodular bronchiectasis is the major clinical presentation in primary PEM
disease. Whatever the reasons for this shift, an understanding of the clinical
presentation and the gender-specific pathogenesis will be important.
Classification of primary disease is based on the exclusion of underlying
disorders as we understand them today. As we learn more about these putative
predispositions, we may need to re-define these categories.
     Patients with the nodular bronchiectatic primary PEM disease typically
present with chronic cough and none, some, or all of the following: fever,
fatigue, sweats, weight loss, dyspnea, hemoptysis and chest pain. Time from
onset of symptoms to diagnosis can be weeks to years. Chest radiographs
demonstrate nodular infiltrates and cylindrical bronchiectasis (Aksamit 2002).
The characteristic high resolution computed tomography findings are
bronchiectasis and ill-defined small nodules that are centrilobular in
distribution. The typical description is "tree-in-bud" appearance, which is felt to
represent an inflamed bronchiolar wall with fluid (i.e. mucus and inflammatory
cells) within the lumen. Radiographic studies indicate that while disease can
involve multiple segments of the lung, a very suggestive pattern consists of
disease located in the mid-lung (right middle lobe and lingula) zones
(Chalermskulrat et al. 2002). The computed tomography scan adds considerable
information in the diagnosis of pulmonary PEM disease (Figure 9.1). Studies
have shown airflow limitation as well as high residual volumes. Described
together they represent distal air trapping in the small airways (Kubo et al.
1998). Up to 50% of patients can have normal results on pulmonary function
testing (Prince et al. 1989; Aksamit 2002;). The disease can be fatal. In primary
disease described by Prince and co-workers, death occurred in four patients due
to progressive uncontrolled pulmonary infection. Relapse is common after
120                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

therapy is stopped. Left untreated the nodular bronchiectatic disease can go on
to cavitate and cause severe lung destruction. A certain body phenotype has
been described consisting of mitral valve prolapse and pectus excavatum. The
patients are often thin and have an abnormal narrowing of the anterior-posterior
diameter (Iseman et at. 1991). Sufficient data supporting a unifying explanation
of a "predisposing phenotype" is currently lacking but is an area of interest for
future study. Considerations of the role of bacterial virulence, previous exposure
to antimicrobials, irnmunosenescence, host genetic and environmental factors
influencing disease are fruitful areas of future research.




Fig. 9.1 High resolution computed tomography scan of a patient with PEM lung disease
demonstrating lingular bronchiectasis, nodules, and infiltrates.

9.1.1.2 Secondary PEM
Unlike primary PEM patients, secondary cases do have some pre-existing lung
disease to put them at risk for infection (Aksamit 2002). Secondary PEM
disorders can be associated with CF, emphysema, previous TB and
histoplasmosis, radiation therapy to the lung, silicosis and other inorganic dust
pneumoconiosis, chronic aspiration, malignancies, etc. (refer also to section
9.6). It appears that regional factors in areas of lung damage predispose to
                              Pulmonary infection                               121

infection. It is postulated that abnormal blood flow, altered anatomy and local
impairment of host defences may contribute. Many of these principal disorders
result in fibrosis and scarring that is felt to become colonized/infected with
PEM. In these cases, disease occurs at the site of previous damage. In smoking-
related emphysema, disease is usually in the upper lung zones in areas of pre-
existing bullae and can present with fibrocavitary disease. The symptoms can
include cough, sputum production, fatigue, weight loss, sweats, hemoptysis,
pleuritic and non-pleuritic chest pain. Fever is unusual unless secondary
bacterial infection occurs. Often it is difficult to differentiate between symptoms
due to underlying lung diseases (i.e. dyspnea associated with emphysema) and
those of the superimposed mycobacterial infection. The radiographic
manifestations can also include cavities, pleural thickening, nodular infiltrates,
consolidation and various forms of bronchiectasis. Since nodules can also
signify malignancy (to which smokers are predisposed) it is important to
discriminate infection from malignancy. In emphysema related PEM disease,
there is a predominance of male smokers. It remains to be seen if the rise in
female smoking incidence will be reflected in increased secondary PEM in this
group in the future. The patients with secondary PEM pulmonary infection are
also in the older age range (sixth to eighth decade). The patients often have
grossly abnormal measures of lung function (Aksamit 2002). The patients with
secondary PEM tend to have cavities that are thinner walled when compared to
those ofTB (Prince et at. 1989).
    Of particular interest is the association ofPEM and CF. It is felt that the very
viscous respiratory secretions of this disease contribute to recurrent pulmonary
infections. Prior to the 1990s, the recovery ofPEM from sputum of patients with
CF was rare. Longevity into the third and fourth decades due to better
antibiotics, inhaled medications, nutrition and improved sputum clearance
techniques has occurred. With time there has been a rise in the incidence of
other important pathogens including drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus,
Burkholderia cepacia,         Achromobacter xylosoxidans,          Stenotrophomonas
maltophilia and PEM. Olivier et al. (2002) found a prevalence of PEM of 13%
in the sputum of CF patients. Of these, MAC accounted for 75% of PEM
isolates. However, the contribution to respiratory decline in CF patients is
disputed. With a follow up of 15 months they found no effect on lung function,
but high resolution computed tomography scan of the chest abnormalities
suggestive of infection with the PEM was predictive of disease progression. In a
large study of mUltiple CF centres, patients who were infected with the PEM
showed no significant differences in gender or frequency of pancreatic enzyme
use. Only 37% of the patients met the American Thoracic Society
microbiological criteria for disease. Those harbouring an M abscessus were
more likely to meet the criteria. Those with PEM were more likely to have
122                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

s. aureus infection and have a higher prevalence of Aspergillus co-infection.
The clinical significance of infection is incompletely defined. There are reports
substantiating the important pathogenic role of PEM when found in CF
secretions. Autopsy studies have demonstrated granulomas and caseating
necrosis felt to contribute to a patient's demise (Boxerbaum 1980). The clinical
and radiographic manifestations of PEM in CF patients are similar to those in
other cases of pulmonary disease. Chest computed tomography scans
demonstrate bronchiectasis as well as cysts (or cavities) consolidated areas and
peripheral nodules (including in a tree-in-bud pattern). However, these patients
often have another infection (e.g. Pseudomona aeruginosa) that can cause the
same symptoms. Experts in the field recommend that multiple positive sputum
cultures for the same organism and consistent symptoms and worsening
spirometry as well as traditional radiographic findings be present before
consideration for treatment (Olivier et al. 1996, 2001; Olivier 1998; Ebert &
Olivier 2002). In rare circumstances where the patient is stable, a period of close
clinical observation can be tried with a low threshold to begin therapy if any
parameters change. Given the severity of the disease due to M abscessus and
the therapeutic difficulties, these patients are likely to require therapy without
delay. The most common isolate in nearly all studies of CF patients is MAC but
M kansasii and members of the rapidly growing species (particularly
M abscess us) have also been reported. Since infection with the PEM is an
indolent process, it is likely that with longer follow up significant clinical
impact of infection will be demonstrated.

9.1.1.3 Hypersensitivity pneumonitis
Another form of PEM disease which has been recently recognized is the
phenomenon of hypersensitivity pneumonitis seen in immunocompetent people
with aerosol exposure to mycobacteria. This form does not have any known
gender bias. Typically it is linked to hot tubs and indoor swimming pools and
particularly strikes healthy subjects such as lifeguards and those who use these
aquatic sources for recreation or work (Embil et at. 1997; Mangione et al. 200 I;
Mery & Horan 2002). Aerosols are felt to be the major route of infection in
hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Likely due to their hydrophobic nature, these
organisms are found in greater quantities in the air above the pool than in the
pool water. High hydrophobicity can lead to adherence to surfaces. M avium
can also adsorb to air bubbles in water resulting in high concentrations of the
organism at the air water interface (discussed in Chapters 2 and 3).
   The precise pathogenesis is not completely understood, but investigators
have attributed the pathology to both a component of bacterial infection and
host immune response to mycobacterial antigens. A relatively distinct clinical
                                  Pulmonary infection                                    123

syndrome occurs after inhalation. Symptoms include cough, dyspnea, fatigue,
impaired exercise tolerance and sputum production. The chest radiograph and
computed tomography scans demonstrate hazy or ground glass opacities and
peripheral small nodules often with a tree-in-bud pattern (Rickman et at. 2002).
The AFB smear from sputum is insensitive but the culture is more sensitive
(Khoor et al. 2001). MAC is the most common offender but other species have
been implicated. Bronchiolitis obliterans and other features of hypersensitivity,
including non-necrotizing granuloma, are seen on pathology (Figure 9.2).
Discontinuation of exposure to the source is mandatory. Treatments have varied




between antimycobacterial agents or steroids alone or often a combination of
both (Khoor et al. 2001). Discontinuation of hot tub use has led to prompt
improvement in symptoms, pulmonary function and radiographic abnormalities
without the use of anti mycobacterial agents (Rickman et at. 2002) .
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis secondary to PEM as an occupational lung
disorder has been well described and causes a similar syndrome. It has been
seen most often in individuals using metal working fluids that are contaminated
with mycobacteria (Hodgson et at. 2001 ; Wallace et at. 2002a).


Fig. 9.2 Histopathology of a patient with hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Intense
inflammation, bronchiolitis obliterans and non-caseatin g granulomatous infiltrates are seen.
124                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


9.1.2 Selected treatment issues
As mentioned above, the criteria for diagnosis of disease usually include clinical
signs and symptoms, sputum mycobacteriology and radiographic studies. Failure
to recognize infection and disease and thus withholding therapy may result in
unnecessary lung damage. Likewise, giving therapy when no evidence of disease
is present only puts the patient at risk from unnecessary toxicity. The 1997
American Thoracic Society gnidelines on diagnosis and therapy are a useful
starting point. Our understanding of the optimal considerations for treatment
continues to evolve.
    In the era of the newer macrolides such as clarithromycin and azithromycin,
greater treatment success is now achievable. Macrolides have the most predictable
in vitro activity against MAC and have added a great deal to the treatment of
infection (Griffith et al. 1996; Wallace et al. 1996). A typical course of antibiotics
includes three or four drugs for many months. Preferred agents include
clarithromycin (or azithromycin), rifampin (or rifabutin), ethambutol and possibly
an amino glycoside for a short period of time at the beginning of therapy. Thrice
weekly regimens have been studied and are effective (Griffith et al. 1998,2000).
For previously untreated PEM disease due to MAC, a regimen of clarithromycin
or azithromycin, rifampin, ethambutol and amikacin is often recommended. The
amikacin is given for a period of two to three months with careful attention to
renal, audio and vestibular toxicity. Toxicities with rifampin include orange
discoloration of the secretions and urine, staining of contact lenses, nausea,
vomiting, hypersensitivity syndrome (fever, rash), hepatitis, leukopenia, flu-like
illness, thrombocytopenia, drug-induced lupus and renal failure. In addition,
multiple drug interactions can occur manifested by increased hepatic metabolism
of numerous agents by induction of the cytochrome P450 system. Rifampin
combined with clarithromycin results in less bioavailability of clarithromycin.
Rifabutin has similar toxicities to rifampin and can also cause polymyalgia and
polyarthritis. Rifabutin has somewhat less effect on the P450 system.
Clarithromycin can cause toxic accumulations of rifabutin due to its ability to
inhibit the elimination of rifabutin (which can be associated with uveitis).
Ethambutol may cause optic neuritis (loss of red/green colour discrimination and
loss of visual acuity) and rash. This side effect is often dose related. Given the
complexity of therapy, consultation with experts in the field should be considered.
    With the exception of clarithromycin, the role and the predictability of in vitro
susceptibility testing of MAC is an area of controversy (Iseman 2002). In contrast
to TB, where susceptibility testing has an undisputed role in management of
disease, in PEM disease it is somewhat debatable. The American Thoracic Society
statement recommends against testing of agents other than clarithromycin. A
study done at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center found that there
                                Pulmonary infection                                  125

was a correlation between treatment response (as measured by consecutive sputum
culture negativity for three months) and the number of antimycobacterial drugs
that the patient was treated with that had demonstrable in vitro susceptibility
(Iseman 2002). If a patient has had prior therapy with a macrolide or is failing
therapy, in vitro susceptibility testing for clarithromycin (at a minimum) should be
performed. Testing of rifampin susceptibility for M kansasii and a panel of
antimicrobial agents for other mycobacteria, such as the RGM, is recommended
(American Thoracic Society 1997). The recommendations for duration of therapy
are based on a high rate of relapse if treatment is terminated early (Wallace et al.
1996). Anywhere from 12-24 months is the usual suggested duration of treatment,
although shorter courses may yet be possible using macrolide containing
regimens. Additional details and other variations of these recommendations based
on unique underlying patient characteristics can be found in the review by Iseman
(Iseman 2002).
    Special considerations exist in the diagnosis and management of M kansasii
disease. This subject has been extensively reviewed (Griffith 2002). M abscessus
may be the most difficult pathogen to treat in patients with and without CF. It is
difficult to render patients with this infection culture negative despite the apparent
in vivo susceptibility of the isolates in the laboratory. It is possible that this has to
do with an enhanced resistant state (i.e. a biofilm mode of growth) in the host
compared to the planktonic culture used for in vitro susceptibility testing
(Bardouniotis et al. 2003). Treatment recommendations for M abscessus includes
amikacin, cefoxitin and usually a third agent such as clarithromycin is added. The
duration of intravenous therapy is typically six to eight weeks with a period of
longer-term suppressive therapy. Patients with CF have altered drug absorption
and pharmacokinetics. Consideration should be given to measuring serum
antimicrobial concentrations for patients with and without CF, which may dictate
altering drug dosages to avoid toxicity and achieve therapeutic success. Serum
concentrations for most of the antimycobacterial agents can be obtained from the
Pharmacokinetic Laboratory at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center
(+ 1-303-398-2603). A multicentre treatment trial involving inhaled interferon-
gamma is nearing completion and results should soon be available.
   Surgical therapy continues to playa role in the management of these patients;
however, it is largely reserved for patients who have failed medical therapy, or for
those with severe symptomatic disease. When present, localized disease lends
itself best to surgical intervention. Predictably, those that have poor preoperative
lung function do less well. Complications arising from treatment, such as
bronchopleural fistulas, etc., do occur (Iseman et al. 1985; Pomerantz et al.
1991, 1996; Nelson et al. 1998; Shiraishi et al. 2002): those that undergo
pneumonectomy (especially for right-sided disease) seem to have a higher risk
of severe postoperative complications (Pomerantz et al. 1991).
126                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


9.1.3 Selected microbiological issues
In the clinical context, microbiological data is the foundation of a proper
diagnosis. Specimen processing in a laboratory capable of performing up-to-
date and timely identification and susceptibility testing is important (refer to
9.4). Isolation ofPEM from the sputum of patients with CF is often difficult due
to the common finding of overgrowth of more rapidly growing bacteria and
fungal species. In order to enhance recovery of PEM, oxalic acid is sometimes
added to the decontamination step in specimen processing and can increase the
yield of PEM (Bange & Bottger 2002). If a high index of suspicion exists,
multiple specimens should be submitted to the laboratory for analysis.
    Advances in laboratory methodologies have enabled more rapid and reliable
differentiation of mycobacterial species. Also, new and emerging species have
recently been described that cause pulmonary disease. Additional insights into
PEM infections are gleaned from applying molecular typing tools. In a study of
pulmonary nodular bronchiectasis infection involving M intracellulare isolates
that had the same colony morphology on the plate, PFGE demonstrated multiple
different fingerprints (i.e. a polyclonal infection) (Wallace et al. 1998a). In
patients with secondary PEM infection, especially disease due to underlying
emphysema with fibrocavitary disease, there was often only a single isolate over
time. If therapy with a macrolide was continued long enough in those with
nodular bronchiectatic disease and relapse, the relapse strain was macrolide
susceptible and represented acquisition of a new strain (Wallace et al. 2002).
Considering the relatively high numbers and wide diversity of M avium and
M intracellulare in the environment (i.e. drinking-water and soil), it is not
surprising that some patients would be infected by more than a single strain.


9.2 OVERALL BURDEN OF DISEASE
The precise incidence ofPEM is difficult to ascertain. MAC is estimated to have
a range of infection of 1-2.5/100 000 population and is rising (Marras & Daley
2002). The upward trend is not due exclusively to AIDS, because PEM occurred
before and independently of the appearance ofHIY. There are multiple potential
reasons for an increase in PEM disease. These include, but are not limited to:
1) more sputum cultures are being ordered; 2) more computed tomography lung
scans are being ordered and when the classic radiographic pattern is seen (i.e.
bronchiectasis, tree and bud), cultures are more likely to be requested; 3) the use
of more liquid media resulting in higher recovery rates compared to the use of
Lowenstein-Jensen agar media. The organisms most commonly implicated in
human infections are MAC, M kansasii, and the RGM especially M abscessus.
In some regions, M kansasii is one of the most common PEM isolated. It has
                              Pulmonary infection                              127

annual infection rates of 0.5-1/100 000 population. In certain areas it has higher
rates (i.e. 2.4-17.6 per 100000). It occurs in geographic clusters and affects
primarily white men but it can occur in any race or at any age.


9.3 DISTRIBUTION
PEM lung disease has been reported from all over the globe. MAC has been
most commonly studied and is found in nearly all regions of the world where it
has been looked for. However, it has been found in the primary disease form
particularly in patients from the south-eastern United States coastal states of the
gulf (M. Iseman, G. Huitt, personal communication). In a study done by the
CDC, the rates of MAC isolation tended to be highest in states bordering the
Atlantic ocean and the Gulf of Mexico (> 4.8/1 00000) (Good & Snider 1982).
M kansasii tends to occur in an inverted "T" in the United States with a broad
area of disease in Texas, Oklahoma and up into the Midwest. M xenopi is an
endemic problem in Britain and France; however, sporadic cases have been
described elsewhere, including in the United States. M malmoense is also more
prevalent in Europe. Other slowly growing mycobacteria, including M simiae,
appear to be on the rise as well. The distribution of disease due to this species
and to some of the rarer species is unknown.


9.4 DESCRIPTIVE EPIDEMIOLOGY
The epidemiological study of pulmonary infections is challenging. Growth of a
PEM in culture can result from contamination in the laboratory or from any
point in the process of specimen collection. In order to reliably discern the
incidence and prevalence of disease associated with each isolate, clinical data is
required to understand more comprehensively the true incidence of disease. In
contrast to infection caused by M tuberculosis, disease due to the environmental
mycobacteria is not reportable in the United States. Thus data is not available to
ascertain the precise incidence and prevalence.
   In the early 1980s O'Brien et al (1987) carried out a survey of the state and
city health departments. Disease due to the PEM occurred in 1.81100000.
Limitations of the study include incomplete sampling from across the
population of the United States and possible under-recognition of the nodular
bronchiectatic form of disease at the time the survey was done. However, other
national surveys, such as one performed in Switzerland, showed fairly
consistent profiles of disease prevalence of around 1/1 00000 popUlation
(Debrunner et al. 1992). A superb analysis of the world's literature has recently
been published (Marras & Daley 2002). The authors have analysed data where
laboratory based surveys also contained clinical data allowing some
128                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

ascertainment of presence or absence of disease. Nearly all studies performed in
Europe, North America, Asia, Africa and Australia found a rising proportion of
potentially pathogenic mycobacteria in laboratory-based surveys. For instance,
in one province of British Columbia the annual incidence of PEM pulmonary
disease rose at an exponential rate (from 0.081100 000 in 1960 to 0.61100000 in
1980). In Massachusetts in 1972 non-M tuberculosis species accounted for 12%
of mycobacterial isolations; by 1983 they accounted for 70%. The incidence
rates in recent decades range from 1.7-4.5 per 100000 people. In Europe,
reports of disease rates range from 0.3-18/100000 people. African, Asian and
Australian studies have shown a rate between 0.3-78/100000 in certain areas.
In all regions, most reports would suggest that concomitant with the decline in
TB, the incidence ofPEM has increased.


9.5 CAUSALITY AND ASSOCIATED MICROBES
It is important to accurately identify the organism to ensure proper diagnosis and to
make proper treatment selections. Advances in laboratory methodologies have
enabled more rapid and reliable differentiation of mycobacterial species and new
species with the potential to cause pulmonary disease are being described all the
time. In the United States MAC was most commonly seen followed by M kansasii
(20%) and rapid growers (10%) (Marras & Daley 2002). MAC includes M avium
and M intracellulare. These two species are indistinguishable using routine
laboratory criteria such as biochemical testing and morphology. Newer methods
based on sequencing and chromatographic patterns of mycolic acids are employed
in reference labs. Molecular tools have allowed distinction on the basis of 16SrRNA
sequences using commercially prepared kits (GenProbe, Accuprobe). Each species
should be described separately as they are likely to have different biologies in the
environment, unique antibiotic susceptibilities and particular virulence
characteristics. Recently, by sequencing the hsp65 gene of representative isolates, it
was shown that there are unique pathogenic capabilities of human isolates compared
to the environmental strains (Smole et al. 2002).


9.6 RISK FACTORS
Risk factor analysis needs to consider host factors, microbial factors and
environmental factors.
    While the precise details are not well worked out, it is generally believed that
patients acquire mycobacteria from their environment, including waters and soils. The
number of mycobacteria isolated from drinking-water can be very high: up to
100 000 cfu/cm2 can be found in water distribution systems (refer to Chapter 3). Since
the combined length of water pipes in an average distribution system can be hundreds
                                    Pulmonary infection                                 129

of miles, the potential human exposure is immense. In addition, the mycobacteria are
relatively resistant to chlorination, which may explain their success and persistence in
drinking-water.
    Pulmonary infections disproportionately affect the elderly. Some of the areas with
the highest incidence ofPEM disease are also the areas with the greatest proportion of
older adults (data from the United States Census Bureau). The proportion of people
over 65 years of age was 1 in 20 in 1930, it increased in the mid eighties to 1 in 10, and
projections for 2020 are that 1 in 5 individuals will be 65 years and older. With an
ageing population, we may see more pulmonary PEM disease. It may also be that the
current trend in some countries for elderly people to retire to warm, moist
environments may put these people at risk. Additional risk factors include those with
underlying host conditions such as patients with CF and smoking-related emphysema.
These and additional risk factors for pulmonary disease are listed in Table 9.1.
Table 9.1 Risk factors for PEM disease (adapted from De Groote & Iseman 2003)

Traditional lung       Heritable                           Prior lung
disorders              Conditions           Body Habitus   infections       As~iration
emphysema              CF                   pectus         IE               gastro-
                                            excavatum                       oesophageal
                                                                            reflux

dust                   disordered ciliary   scoliosis      histoplasmosis   achalasia
pneumocomosls          motility

fibrosis, ankylosing   tracheo-             slender body   coccidiodo-      swallowing
spondylitis,           broncheomegaly       type           mycosis          disorders
rheumatoid arthritis

radiation lung         alpha-l anti-        mitral valve   aspergillosis    mineral oil
injury, alveolar       trypsin disorders    prolapse                        ingestion
proteinosis,
pulmonary
embolism

   Host defences against mycobacterial infections include intact epithelial
surfaces, the mucociliary lining of the respiratory tract, neutrophils,
macrophages and lymphocytes. Factors that negatively affect any of these
defences predispose patients to mycobacterial infections.


9.7 PREVALENCE OF ASYMPTOMATIC DISEASE
Most of the data regarding asymptomatic disease comes from skin test surveys.
This test depends on the development of a delayed hypersensitivity to skin test
130                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

antigens derived from PPD of mycobacteria. In two separate and large studies, a
consistent and striking epidemiological finding was the geographical differences
in exposure, with particular high rates in the south-east United States (Marras &
Daley 2002). The first used the PPD of M tuberculosis at low and high doses (5
and 250 TU). A positive response to the 250 TU skin test was felt to be related
to exposure to antigenic ally similar mycobacterial species. Those subjects
whose residence was in zones encompassing Texas, North and South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas,
Georgia and Oklahoma had the highest degree of reactivity. Similarly, skin test
surveys done in the 1960s using a battery of skin test antigens including the
Battey bacillus (MAC) revealed a higher percentage of reactivity in Navy
recruits from the south-eastern United States. Von Reyn et al. (2001) have
recently shown a high incidence of skin test positivity in the United States with
higher rates among adults in the southern states. Limitations in interpreting this
data related to asymptomatic disease include absence of supportive clinical data
to rule out active disease. Both large studies were done on presumably healthy
young people, so this is likely just a theoretical concern. Secondly, there is non-
specificity in the antigenic response to antigens in these preparations and cross
reactivity can occur. Cross immune protection to MTB and other environmental
mycobacteria probably occurs. Newer tests using gamma interferon production
by whole blood lymphocytes may yield additional discriminative information.


9.S KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
There are a number of research priorities to be considered in dealing with the
issue of PEM pulmonary infections. Some of these are listed below:
• design prospective, safe, multicentre controlled studies of natural history,
     risk factors, treatments and predictors of outcome;
• develop and standardize methods for unique identification to the species
     level and study microbial correlates to pathogenesis and outcomes;
•    define the nature of exposure in the environment to advise high-risk
     individuals how to avoid exposure;
•    define the role of pharmacokinetic and in vitro susceptibility studies in the
     routine management of PEM.
10
Disease resulting from
contaminated equipment and
invasive procedures
MA. De Groote




As ubiquitous inhabitants of the environment and frequent colonizers/contaminants
in nosocomial settings, PEM are an important and emerging cause of human
disease. The persistence of these organisms in municipal and hospital water supplies
coupled with their intrinsic resistance to disinfection is the likely explanation for
these cases (Falkinham 2002). Procedures that place people at risk of infection are
commonly performed every day in large numbers in health care and cosmetic
settings throughout the world. Fortunately, rates of acquiring infection are relatively
low, but laboratories and clinicians will occasionally be faced with such patients.
Due to the ubiquity of the organisms in the environment, microbiological specimens
can become contaminated. It is sometimes difficult to determine accurately if the
isolation of mycobacteria is associated with disease, or if it is an accidental

© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
l32                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

contaminant. In addition to these unique individual patient considerations, such
cases could also herald a "real" or "pseudo-outbreak" resulting from a shared
contaminated device or solution. Laboratory workers, infection control practitioners,
clinicians, and occasionally even public health personnel play important roles in the
evaluation of each case.
    This chapter outlines exposures resulting from contaminated devices and
invasive procedures and gives representative examples of each. Selected aspects of
the clinical presentation, treatments and outcomes will be highlighted. While
infections due to various members of the PEM are addressed, special attention is
given to the rapidly growing species due to the central role these organisms play in
the etiology of device-related infection. In some cases there is overlap with the data
presented in the accompanying skin infection chapter in this book and the reader is
referred to this chapter for complementary information (Chapter 8). Finally, there
are several excellent recent reviews on nosocomial outbreaks/pseudo-outbreaks that
have been published recently (Fraser 1981; Wallace et al. 1998; Phillips & von
Reyn2001).


10.1     CLINICAL ASPECTS
10.1.1 General Comments
Though the problem has been recognized for decades, the number of reports of
pathogenic mycobacterial disease caused by the use of contaminated devices or
from an invasive procedure has been increasing. Some of the highest rates of potable
water contamination are found in hospitals, dental offices and hemodialysis units
(Carson et al. 1988; Schulze-Robbecke et al. 1995; Fujita et al. 2002).
   Difficulty can arise in making a diagnosis due to the indolent nature of the
clinical presentation and a long incubation period. Because the original exposure
may have occurred some time before clinical presentation, heightened clinical
suspicion is often needed to make a proper diagnosis. Once considered, the
organisms are usually not difficult to cultivate in the laboratory.
    When a microbiological specimen yields PEM, it is important to discriminate
between colonization, true infection and pseudo-infection (Phillips & von Reyn
2001). Colonization indicates the presence of the organism within or on the patient
but, by definition, occurs in the absence of any identifiable disease. Pseudo-infection
results when mycobacteria are isolated in culture from a clinical specimen as a result
of contamination. In pseudo-infection, there is no evidence of infection or disease.
Pseudo-infections can represent an isolated event or a pseudo-outbreak involving
many people. These scenarios are summarized in Table 10.1.
                Contaminated equipment and invasive procedures                        133

Table 10.1 Potential situations associated with PEM isolation from a clinical specimen
(Adapted from Phillips & von Reyn 2001)

Situation                Definition
Colonization             Isolation of potentially pathogenic EM without signs or
                         symptoms of disease attributed to the organism.

Infection/disease        Clinical evidence of infection attributed to the organism.

Pseudo-infection         No evidence of infection or colonization and isolation in the
                         laboratory has resulted from contamination of the
                         environment (can occur at any point: from a contaminated
                         device, in obtaining the specimen, or up through the final
                         cultivation in the laboratory).

   These scenarios are important to identifY because the patient(s) could be spared
unnecessary antimicrobial agents if a "pseudo-infection" is present. Examples of
pseudo-outbreaks include contaminated endoscopes and bronchoscopes as well as
other types of instrumentation (CDC 1991; Canadian Disease Weekly 1991;
Maloney et al. 1994; Griffiths et al. 1997). Bronchoscopic contamination is a
common source and can occur due to inadequate cleaning and disinfection of the
scope or by contaminated solutions or water used in the process (Sniadack et al.
1993). The organisms most commonly involved in bronchoscopic pseudo-outbreaks
include M abscessus, Mfortuitum, MAC (both M avium and M intracellulare),
M gordonae and M xenopi. Automated bronchoscope disinfecting machines can
become heavily contaminated with mycobacteria that are resistant to normal
disinfection procedures (Wallace et al. 1998). Bronchoscopes contain components
that are small and difficult to sterilize. For example, contamination of the suction
valve (an area of the scope that is not easily accessible) has been documented
(Wheeler et al. 1989). There exists potential for biofilm growth in many areas ofthe
scope including the small lumens and multiple ports. In addition to pseudo-infection,
there is a theoretical risk of true infection upon exposure to a contaminated
instrument especially if a patient is immunocompromised or has a significant
underlying lung disease (Prakash 1993). In this situation the patient should be
monitored carefully for signs of disease. Other cases of pseudo-outbreaks have been
reported as a result oflaboratory cross-contamination, contaminated microbiological
equipment, media, supplements and tap water (Wallace et al. 1998). Laboratories
and practitioners need to be aware of these possibilities and in the absence of a
compatible clinical syndrome a pseudo-infection should be considered.
   True infection/disease has occurred in many different types of clinical settings.
While not meant to be comprehensive, some examples of disease due to PEM are
shown in Table 10.2.
134                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Table 10.2 A representative listing of mycobacterial species associated with infections in
the nosocomial setting.

Type of infection               Mycobacterial species        Source
Venous catheter infection       Mfortuitum                   Catheter or solutions
                                M abscessus
                                M chelonae
                                M avium

Pacemaker or                    M avium                      Device
automatic implantable           M abscessus
cardiac defibrillator
infection

Sternal wound infection         M fortuitum, M abscessus     Water/ice cardioplegic
                                                             solution

Cardiac porcine valve           M chelonae                   Contamination during
infection                                                    sterilization of valve

Abscess after adrenal           M abscessus                  Contaminated ACE (non-
cortex extract (ACE)                                         FDA approved)

Plastic surgery (facial         M abscessus                  Contaminated instruments,
blepharoplasty and                                           or solutions (i.e. gentian
augmentation                                                 violet)
mammoplasty) wound
infection

Peritonitis in peritoneal       M abscessus                  Identical to water isolate
dialysis patients                                            by strain typing

Haemodialysis related           M abscessus and M            Water used in rinsing
infection                       mucogenicum                  dialysis equipment

Otitis media                    M abscessus                  Possible contaminated
                                                             instruments or tap water

Discitis                        M xenopi                     Hospital hot water

    Some species are rarely associated with disease, such as the occurrence of
M kansasii and M gordonae with peritoneal dialysis infections. Other less
commonly isolated species include M smegmatis, M neoaurm, M gastri,
M genavense, M szulgai and M immunogenicum. Excellent reviews of this subject
are available (Wallace et al. 1998; Phillips & von Reyn 2001).
                Contaminated equipment and invasive procedures                        135


10.1.2 Specific infections
10.1.2.1 Infection of intravascular catheters, pacemakers
Vascular devices such as indwelling venous access lines and vascular shunts can
become infected with both RGM and other species (Katz et al. 2000; Schinsky et al.
2000; Rodriguez-Gancedo et al. 2001; Bouza et al. 2002). Infections can result in
skin and soft tissue involvement (including tunnel site infections) with or without
bacteraemia. Symptoms include local manifestations of line infections such as
erythema and occasionally drainage at the site. There may be fever and other signs
and symptoms of bacteraemia. The usual treatment is to remove the device and
administer appropriate antibiotics (typically for a period of 2-12 weeks or more).
Pocket infections involving pacemakers have also been seen with PEM, with MAC
and especially M abscessus predominating (Amin et al. 1991; Katona et al. 1992;
Cutay et al. 1998; Verghese et al. 1998).

10.1.2.2 Dialysis related infection
Dialysis related PEM infection has been reported in both intravascular and peritoneal
mechanisms of renal replacement therapy. RGM species are the most commonly
implicated. Contaminated aqueous solutions used to sterilize the re-usable dialysis
filters have been involved in many cases. PEM representatives have been isolated from
water supplies ofhaemodialysis centres (Carson et al. 1988). In 1982,271140 patients
receiving haemodialysis developed infection after being exposed to mycobacteria in
water used to prepare dialysis fluids (Bolan et al. 1985).
    Peritonitis can occur in patients undergoing chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis
(Band et al. 1982). In this setting it can involve the catheter insertion site, tunnelling
tract and/or the peritoneum itself. MAC and the rapid growers are the most commonly
isolated species (Band et al. 1982; Soriano et al. 1989; Lowry et al. 1990; Vera & Lew
1999). Patients with end stage renal disease from any cause are likely to be more prone
to infection due to impaired lymphocyte and neutrophil activity in the face of uraemia.
    Overall, NTM accounts for a relatively small number of peritonitis infections, but
this may be an underestimate given the frequency of culture negative cases. In fact if
routine cultures are negative one should consider the diagnosis of PEM peritonitis
(Hakim et al. 1993). Symptoms are insidious and often involve fever, abdominal pain
and cloudy dialysate fluids. There can be catheter dysfunction, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhoea and weight loss. The white blood cell can be elevated and is often of
neutrophilic predominance. Catheter removal improves the rate of cure and antibiotics
are necessary to prevent clinical failure. Sequelae include adhesions and sometimes
difficulty replacing the catheter (Hakim et al. 1993).
136                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

10.1.2.3 Injection abscesses
~ection site abscesses have been caused by a variety of contaminated materials
(Vandepitte et al. 1969; Wenger et al. 1990; Villanueva et al. 1997; Galil et al. 1999).
Complementary and alternative medicine settings, such as injection of non-FDA
approved substances that are contaminated by environmental mycobacteria, have been
implicated as the source of infection (Wallace et al. 1998). For example, post-injection
infection occurred in a large number of individuals who received adrenal cortex
injection as part of a programme to lose weight (Galil et al. 1999). These contaminated
substances have led to localized skin and soft tissue abscesses. The solutions
themselves may be contaminated, and needles that are re-used or rinsed in tap water
have also been implicated (Nolan et al. 1991). Contaminated multiple-use vials are
especially suspect if there is more than one similar case. Self-administered cutaneous
injections (i.e. patients with diabetes) can also present with PEM skin abscess. One
diabetic patient developed M smegmatis from insulin injections self-administered
immediately after sitting in a hot tub that probably was contaminated with
mycobacteria (De Groote, unpublished observation). A report of an outbreak of
M abscessus in an alternative medicine practice involving young Hispanic females
undergoing cosmetic procedures with non-traditional agents including avocado
products (D. Ashford, CDC, unpUblished) is an example ofthis emerging problem. A
case of M chelonae infection as a result of acupuncture needles has been reported
(Woo et al. 2001). This category of infections is likely to increase with enhanced
utilization of alternative and complementary medical practitioners.
    Often the diagnosis is not immediately obvious and obtaining proper cultures is
delayed. It is not infrequent that a patient presents with an indolent inflammatory
lesion that is unresponsive to antimicrobials. Administration of inappropriate
antibiotics or corticosteroids can delay the diagnosis and may be misleading because it
can temporarily provide some clinical relief and improvement. Because they are anti-
inflammatory, corticosteroids can also worsen disease (Kermosh et al. 1979; Hellinger
et al. 1995; Zenone et al. 1999). A heightened awareness, especially if there is a
history of an injection, will help to ensure an accurate and timely diagnosis. Symptoms
after injection can be very indolent with incubation period of 7-120 days. The lesions
are reddened and vary in consistency. There is often some mild discomfort from the
lesions, but in rare cases, the pain can be more severe. Antimicrobial agents and
occasionally surgical incision and drainage are indicated.

10.1.2.4 Cosmetic industry
While strictly not an invasive device, an outbreak of RGM involving a
whirlpool footbath used in a pedicure salon is presented as an example of
contaminated equipment that can result in a large community outbreak
(Winthrop et al. 2002). The outbreak involved over 100 pedicure salon
                Contaminated equipment and invasive procedures                      137

customers who developed furunculosis in the lower. extremity. Patrons
routinely underwent a period of soaking the lower extremity in the bath
prior to the pedicure. A major risk factor for acquisition of infection was
shaving the legs prior to the footbath treatment. Shaving probably caused
micro-abrasions that provided the organism with a means of access into
the skin. Multiple species of RGM were isolated from the footbath and the
skin lesions of affected patients. Strain typing of M. fortuitum obtained
from selected samples of the footbaths and patients revealed identical
patterns. In this outbreak it was concluded that the contamination resulted
from the municipal water which supplied the footbath. It was speculated
that further growth on sloughed skin and other organic debris present in
the bath resulted in high numbers of organisms. Infections ranged from
mild to severe. Most patients were treated with antimicrobials and all
resolved the infection, although some were left with scars.
    Cases of PEM infections after body piercing have been documented
(Jacobs et al. 2002). For example, one healthy young female presented
with a breast mass that resulted from a nipple piercing carried out 10
months previously. On tissue pathology, no acid-fast organisms were seen
in the granulomatous inflammation, but M. abscessusl chelonae was
isolated in culture (Trupiano et al. 2001).

10.1.2.5 Miscellaneous medical and surgical procedures
Post-surgical infections with PEM have been reported in many settings (Robicsek et
al. 1977, 1978,1988; Hoffinan et al. 1981; Safranek et al. 1987; Wallace et al. 1989;
Jarvis 1991; Grange 1992; Syed et al. 1997). They typically arise from solutions or
instruments that have been inadequately sterilized (phillips & von Reyn 2001).
Mediastinitis and sternal wound infections due to M fortuitum or M chelonae have
been reported after cardiothoracic surgery (Hoffinan et al. 1981; Kuritsky et al. 1983).
One outbreak was traced to contaminated iced cardioplegic solution used during the
procedures. Prosthetic or implantable material such as porcine heart valves have been
contaminated with RGM and are associated with a particularly bad outcome (Robicsek
et al. 1988; Grange 1992).
    An outbreak of otitis media in children has been reported after placement of
tympanic membrane tubes. Infection due to M chelonae was felt to have resulted by
transmission between patients from contaminated instruments (Lowry et al. 1988).
    Spinal infections have been reported after epidural injections and also after spinal
surgery. A large outbreak after discovertebral surgery in France involving 58 patients
in a single hospital in Paris occurred over a period of more than 10 years. This was a
result of chronic contamination of the hospital water supply with M xenopi
(Astagneau et al. 2001).
138                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

    An emerging scenario involves the development of mycobacterial infection after
laser vision correction surgery. One example is keratitis after in situ keratomileusis
surgery (Frueh et al. 2000; Chandra et al. 2001; Garg et al. 2001; Solomon et al.
2001; Alvarenga et al. 2002; Fulcher et al. 2002; Giaconi et al. 2002; Holmes et al.
2002; Maloney, 2002; Pushker et al. 2002; Seo et al. 2002). Even though
mycobacteria are presumably of low virulence, a sight-threatening infection can occur
(Bullington et al. 1992). A typical case is one of indolent, slowly progressive corneal
disease. Reports of crystalline opacities seen in the corneal stroma are thought to be
highly suggestive of mycobacterial infection (Alvarenga et al. 2002). Inflammation is
rare. Whether the absence of inflammatory changes is due to a particular feature of the
mycobacterial organisms causing the corneal infections or the use of topical
corticosteroids is uncertain.
     Other surgical procedures reported to result in PEM infection include
augmentation mammoplasty, liposuction, and other plastic surgical procedures
(Murillo et al. 2000). M abscessus. M chelonae and M fortuitum infection after such
procedures have all been described. In liposuction, for example, the cannulae used for
tissue suctioning can become contaminated, with infected tracts appearing in areas
where the cannulae were introduced (Murillo et al. 2000). Clinically, the patients
present with localized abscesses including microabscess formation, purulent drainage
and fistulae formation. Cellulitis has also been reported. Fever can be present or
absent.
    Many different types of aqueous solutions have been reported as the source of
infection (epidural injections, steroids, tap water). Wound infections have been
reported post surgery after using contaminated gentian violet skin marking solution.
This outbreak of wound infections was caused by M abscessus. and the organism was
recovered from the solution (Safranek et al. 1987). In addition to solutions,
instrumentation and implants that have been implicated include lacrimal duct probes,
tympanostomy tubes, epidural catheters and graft materials. The potential for
contamination exists in a multitude of surgical procedures (Wallace et al. 1998;
Phillips & von Reyn 2001).
    These infections can be very difficult to eradicate. They require cooperative
management between those with infectious disease expertise and surgical colleagues
to ensure adequate debridement and appropriate antimicrobial therapy. All surgical
instruments should be sterilized according to manufacturer regulations, conform to
standard practice, and should be overseen by the hospital infection control committee.
If an outbreak is confirmed in the US, related to a device or product, the incident is
reported to the MedWatch programme at the Food and Drug Administration
(http://www.fda.gov).
                 Contaminated equipment and invasive procedures                         139


10.1.3 Selected microbial factors
For reasons that are not entirely clear, RGM species, including M abscessus,
M chelonae and M fortuitum have a propensity for iatrogenic infections. As mentioned
above, they account for most infections reported with post injection infection and wound
infection post-procedures. Potential explanations include the ability of these organisms to
adapt to a low nutrient tap water environment, to form biofilms as a successful mode of
growth, and their relative resistance to standard disinfection.

10.1.3.1 The role a/disinfectant resistance
Contamination of hospital water has been recognized for many years, especially hot
water systems (du Moulin et al. 1988; El Sahly et af. 2002; Fujita et af. 2002;
Labombardi et af. 2002; Zhang et af. 2002). These waters can become a source of
infection for patients. Rapidly growing and other mycobacteria are difficult to emdicate
with common decontamination pmctices and can continue to exist in water pipes in
hospitals and operating rooms (Lowry et al. 1990; Wenger et al. 1990). Most PEM are
relatively resistant to standard disinfectants such as benzalkonium chloride, CPC and
quaternary ammonium compounds, chlorine, glutaraldehyde, formaldehyde, heavy
metals, alcohols, peroxides and iodophores (Russell 1996; Griffiths et al. 1997, 1999;
Manzoor et af. 1999; Falkinham 2002). A thorough review of this topic is presented in
recent papers (Wallace et af. 1998; Phillips & von Reyn 2001), and in chapter 11. At
their recommended concentrations for use, however, many of these agents can be
mycobactericidal. Even when adequate disinfection has occurred, regrowth of the
organism could again result in human infection. An interesting idea has been put forward
by Falkinham that, given the relative resistance of certain PEM to disinfection, it survives
relative to its competitors and is able to acquire nutrients that it would not otherwise have
access to in the absence of disinfectants. It is important to not reuse disinfectants.

10.1.3.2 The role of biofilms
A biofilm is a consortium of microbes that adhere to either abiotic or biotic surfaces.
Rapidly growing species are especially adept at forming biofilms (Hall-Stoodley &
Lappin-Scott 1998). They produce an extracellular matrix that makes them more
difficult to eradicate compared to their planktonic counterparts. Different species vary
in their susceptibility to biocides (e.g. M marinum biofilm cells are more sensitive,
and M fortuitum is more resistant to biocides than their single cell forms) dictating that
each needs to be studied and considered separately (Bardouniotis et af. 2003). Some of
the PEM are thermotolerant and likely also to form biofilms, especially M avium and
M xenopi, which can grow at temperatures around 45°C (Falkinham 2002). In
addition, RGM can readily form biofilms on silastic rubber, which is a common
140                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

material used in medial instruments. NTM has been recovered from dental instruments
at 400 times the concentration in drinking-water (Schulze-R6bbecke et al. 1995).

10.1.3.3 Role of water temperature
Multiple mycobacterial species have been described in piped water systems. M avium
and M xenopi prefer hot water systems and can grow at temperntures around 45°C
(Falkinham 2002). In hot water systems severnl of these thermophilic mycobacteria
can survive and have been reported to cause outbreaks or pseudo-outbreaks (du
Moulin et al. 1988). In some cases temperntures of up to 70°C are required to inhibit
the organism. However, this high water temperature creates a risk of scalding injury.
In cold water systems, M kansasii, M gordonae, M jortuitum, M chelonae,
M abscessus and M mucogenicum have been found. Since cold and hot water
temperatures exist in hospital settings, it is not surprising to see an array of
mycobacterial species responsible for nosocomial infection. As an example of the
remarkable spectrum of persistence, mycobacterial organisms have been isolated from
taps, numerous contaminated instruments, solutions, showerheads and a hospital ice
machine (du Moulin et al. 1988; Labombardi et al. 2002).


10.2      OVERALL BURDEN OF DISEASE
In many countries precise incidence and prevalence data is not available. Severallaborntory
surveys have been conducted in the United States and Europe. However, the limitation of
these surveys is that most are culture-based, not patient-based, so it is difficult to know if
each isolate represents a single individual occurrence. Since 1993, there has been a
reporting system for State Health Department Laborntories, which has yielded important
insights (Bean et al. 1992). Short of a standardized, mandatory reporting of outbreaks and
individual case infections, we are often left with anecdotal reports. Despite such limitations,
infection due to contaminated fluids and devices continue to be reported from all across the
globe. Nevertheless, it is likely that the incidence of disease is underreported. In areas of the
world where there is inadequate mycobacteriology laborntory support the 1rue incidence
may be even higher than is currently recognized.
    Care providers make frequent changes to their practices and it is likely that alternative
medicines and traditional medical practices will become more popular among their patients.
Patients are making more frequent visits to providers of alternative medicine and placing
more reliance on outpatient procedures, including those that are done outside a large
hospital fucility. Some of these centres are not routinely monitored by the infection control
committees or equivalent oversight bodies. If these centres use less rigorous disinfection
protocols, the incidence could become even higher. As advances in medical technology
occur and as the population of immunosuppressed patient continues to increase there will
undoubtedly be more cases reported.
                Contaminated equipment and invasive procedures                        141


10.3     DISTRIBUTION
fuformation regarding the distribution of infection is difficult to obtain. An analysis of
data from the United States Emerging fufectious Diseases Network relating to RGM
infections showed that invasive infections have been reported from all regions of the
country (De Groote et al. 2002). RGM infection associated with medical procedures
was the most common predisposing condition for infection. Given the ubiquity of
these environmental pathogens and their relative resistance to disinfectants it is not
surprising to find such outbreaks scattered around the globe. Disease has also been
reported from Europe, Africa, Central America, Australia and Asia.


10.4      DESCRIPTIVE EPIDEMIOLOGY
Males and females appear to be equally susceptible to these infections. However, in
adrenal cortex injection infections and pedicure salon infections the majority of
patients are females, reflecting the group who are most likely to seek out such
treatments. In other outbreaks such as post-surgical infections, there is no race or
gender bias reported. There has been no person-to-person transmission demonstrated
for these infections.


10.5      RISK FACTORS
In the majority of cases no high-risk group has been identified and most people are
healthy. Presumably all people exposed to contaminated solutions or equipment are at
risk, but the attack rate is not always the majority and the reasons for this are not
completely known (Astagneau et al. 2001). However, underlying disease or
immunosuppression would predispose the patient to more severe disease. Any exposure
to contaminated solutions, medical or surgical devices, or other equipment is a risk,
especially if there is disruption of defensive barriers caused by invasive procedures or
microtrauma (Winthrop et at. 2002). Certainly those of increasing age, underlying
immunosuppression and those who simply have more contact with the health care setting
are more likely to become infected. However, many of the examples presented in this
chapter include perfectly healthy young individuals. UnifYing problems with specific
disinfectants, instruments, etc., has not been uniformly observed.


10.6      CAUSALITY AND ASSOCIATED MICROBES
The microorganisms that are associated with infection are numerous and our
understanding of disease mechanisms is likely to improve with better tools for species
identification and molecular epidemiology. The RGM have been implicated most
often. M abscessus, M chelonae and M fortuitum appear to have the greatest
142                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

propensity for iatrogenic infections related to contaminated devices or solutions.
M avium, M mucogenicum and M xenopi are also common isolates in nosocomial
disease. New species are being described all the time. A recent paper by Wilson et al.
(2001) demonstrates that a newly described rapidly growing species,
M immunogenicum is responsible for a significant percentage of pseudo-outbreaks.
M simiae, M terrae, M haemophilum, M genavense and M malmoense are also
capable of survival in water and have the potential to cause nosocomial outbreaks. It is
important to point out that sometimes laboratories do not differentiate between the
very closely related M chelonae and M abscessus making species-specific
conclusions somewhat difficult (Wallace et al. 1997).


10.7      KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
In the future, timely recognition and reporting of real infections or pseudo-outbreaks will
continue to be important. Updating and adding new surveillance methods within
institutions will be important. Good communication between laboratory workers,
clinicians and infection control practitioners will be a significant contribution to the care
of our patients. With more PEM species described all the time, the laboratory and
clinicians will need to be ever diligent, and incorporate accurate species identification
into the routine workload in the laboratory. If such capabilities are not present in the
laboratory where the infections occur, sending the isolate to a reference facility for
identification and susceptibility testing may be indicated. Also, an enhanced role for
strain typing in outbreak investigation will be important to track epidemics, common
source exposures, and "pseudo-infections". If feasible, setting up a national and possibly
an international cooperative system for reporting and tracking will be important for
outbreak investigation. Investigations into the relative virulence of the organisms
responsible for outbreaks should be carried out. Toward this end, strain collections
should be maintained, so that in the future they may help to advance our understanding
of such infections.
    Studies into the dose response will be important when setting guidelines for standard
disinfection (i.e. what is an acceptable contamination level to prevent infections). With
this in mind, proper protocols for disinfection of instrumentation are very important.
Easier and more effective sterilization solutions should be investigated, as well as more
attention to proper training of personnel involved in instrument decontamination and
reprocessing. Protocols for proper disinfection of equipment outside of the hospital
setting are important (e.g. nail salon whirlpool baths). A greater understanding of the role
of biofilms in and on devices and how to perform efficient eradication of biofilm cells
will be paramount.
11
Control, treatment and disinfection
of Mycobacterium avium complex
in drinking water
M W. LeChevallier




11.1      INTRODUCTION
Three basic mechanisms govern the occurrence of pathogenic microorganisms
in treated drinking-water: 1) the microbes break through the treatment process
from the source water supply, 2) the microbes regrow from very low levels,
typically in biofilms, and 3) the organisms result from a recontamination of the
treated water within the distribution pipeline system. These mechanisms are
incorporated in the concept of multiple barriers for water treatment, the
cornerstone of sanitary engineering. These barriers are selected to duplicate
removal capabilities by succeeding process steps so that sufficient backup
systems are available to permit continuous operation in the face of normal
mechanical failures. Traditionally, the barriers have included:
© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: 1 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
144                     Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

•     source water protection
•     coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation
•     filtration
•     disinfection
•     protection of the distribution system.

     Because mycobacteria can originate from a variety of environmental sources (refer
to Chapters 2 and 3), little information is available to develop source water protection
plans for this organism, although the basic premise applies: that water used for
drinking-water should originate from the highest quality source possible. Available
information for MAC and other mycobacteria are limited for some of the multiple
barrier protection mechanisms, but information available for other microbes can help
fill in gaps to develop an overall control strategy.
     There are a myriad of microbes (in addition to mycobacteria) that may be of
concern in source waters or within the distribution system; developing a monitoring
scheme for each would be an impossible task. The food and beverage industry has
used the RACCP approach to determine the key processes within the manufacturing
chain where contamination can be measured and prevented (Table 11.1). Researchers
have proposed a similar concept to prioritize the key contamination points within the
treatment and distribution system to focus the utility's resources on monitoring and
correcting these locations (Bryan 1993; Sobsey et al. 1993). The WHO has prepared a
document outlining the development of a Water Safety Plan that is based on HACCP
principles (WHO 2003). The following information will be useful in identifYing
critical control points for mycobacteria. The specific application of HACCP
procedures to the control of mycobacteria in water systems is discussed in Chapter 12.
Table 11.1 Application ofHACCP to water supplies

    Step     Activity
       1     Define the scope of the hazard analysis
       2     Set up a multidisciplinary team
       3     Perform detailed analysis of the process
       4     Obtain information on raw materials and distribution conditions
       5     Produce detailed flow diagram
       6     Perform hazard analysis, prioritize hazard in order of importance and
             probability of occurrence
      7      Identify critical control points for each hazard
      8      Specify criteria for each critical control point
       9     Identify means of monitoring critical control points to ensure control
      10     Identify actions to be taken if tolerances are exceeded
      11     Document all control and monitoring procedures
      12     Train personnel involved in the process
                  Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                  145


11.2     REMOVAL OF MYCOBACTERIA BY WATER
         TREATMENT PROCESSES
As detailed in the WHO report entitled Water Quality and Drinking-water
Treatment: the impact of treatment processes on microbial water quality
(LeChevallier & Au 2003), microbes are controlled during water treatment
processes by two principle mechanisms: 1) physical removal by coagulation,
sedimentation and filtration and 2) inactivation by disinfectants. The unique
characteristics of the mycobacteria affect these processes in ways that both
improve and impair treatment.


11.2.1 Physical removal by coagulation and filtration
The hydrophobic nature of the mycobacteria cell wall promotes attachment of
the organism to surfaces. In this regard, most mycobacteria in untreated raw
water will be attached to suspended particulate material and treatment processes
that reduce particle counts and turbidity will be effective for removal of
mycobacteria. Falkinham et al. (2001) reported that the concentration of
M avium in raw surface water samples was significantly associated with
turbidity levels greater than 2 NTU      (r  = 0.93, p < 0.0001); similarly, the
detection rate of M avium in raw water was associated with turbidity levels
greater than 2 NTU (r = 0.63, P < 0.02).
   The addition of coagulants destabilizes microbial particles (e.g. neutralize or
reduce the surface electrical charge on the microbe, enmesh the microbes in a
floc particle or bridge between separate particles) and allows particles to
contact. Flocculation of these particles results in aggregates with sufficient
settling velocities to be removed in the sedimentation basin. Coagulation
conditions (dose, pH, temperature, alkalinity, turbidity and the level and type of
natural organic matter) impact the efficiency of microbial removal, with slightly
better overall reductions under pH conditions (5 to 6.5) optimum for removal of
total organic carbon (Harrington et al. 2001; Bell et. al.2002).
   With proper design and operation, filtration can act as a consistent and
effective barrier for microbial pathogens. The pore size of the most commonly
used filtration processes in potable water treatment are listed in Figure 11.1.
The relative size of MAC is compared to other bacterial, viral and protozoan
pathogens. These size spectra provide insights for developing strategies to
remove microbes by different filtration processes.
   Removal of mycobacteria by six conventional treatment plants is shown in
Table 11.2. The treatment plants used a variety of coagulants, filter media and
disinfection regimes. Mycobacteria, M avium and M intracellulare were
detected in all raw water sources (based on 18 monthly samples), but MAC
146                           Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

organisms were not detected in any plant effluent samples. Slow growing
mycobacteria were detected in drinking-waters treated with monochloramine
after filtration, with the highest frequency of occurrence in waters treated with
chloramines and GAC. It is likely that the mycobacteria detected in the plant
effluent samples originated from the filter media. Monochloramine is a slow
reacting disinfectant (LeChevallier & Au 2003) that would likely result in little
inactivation of the organism.


                                       RO'                                                                 DE '
               Filtration                                                       bag & cartrid ge
                                                 NF '                              filters
               processes
               (pore size of                                 UF'                                            ~anular filtralion
                                                                                                                                 2

               filter medium                                                     MF'

                                                          Viruses

                                                                                        Bacteria

                                                                                                                  Algae

                                                                                               Protozoan cysts
                 Microbial                                                       ~x
                 particles                                                        ~
                                                                                   E
                                                                                  o
                                                                                  U                ;!l
                                                                          OJ       §               E-                ~
                                                              ~
                                                             ..r::
                                                                         !0.
                                                                                  .~     co
                                                                                  ;;:::'c:::
                                                                                                   8                .~
                                                                                                                    C
                                                             .~OJ        "§
                                                                          0
                                                                                  .~~..o~        ~:.....     >.
                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                     ::
                                                              ~   2.8              15 --:~ E       ~ ~              ]
                                                             ;:: .~ 0             8·~;g            ~ ~              §
                                                             ~
                                                             tG
                                                                     o~
                                                                     0:::0...
                                                                                  ~ ~o
                                                                                  < ~u             u~.S!
                                                                                                       t.)
                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                    -..

                                                             •••                  •••            ••                 •

                              10· '0      10.9        10.8           10.7              10.6                10.5      lOA             10

                                                        Size (m) (in log scale)

              IRO: reverse osmosis; NF: nanofiltration; UF: ultrafiltration ; MF: microfiltrati on; DE: diatomaceous
              earth filtration.
              21ncluding slow sand filtrati on. Slow sand filter has a lower pore size than rapid-rate filter.
              3These bacteria are rod-shape. The sizes shown represent the smallest dimension.




Fig. 11.1 Pore size of filter medium and size of microbial particles
                    Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                          147




Table 11.2 Occurrence of mycobacteria and M avium complex in raw and filtered water
samples (Adapted from LeChevallier et al. 2001)

                                                         % Samples      %        % Samples
               Filter      Disinfectant          Total   Mycobacteria   Samples M Intra-
Site Coagulant Media       Type*          Sample Samples Slow Rapid     M aviton ceIlulare
1    Fenic      Anthracite OzonelFree Raw         17     35     6       6        6
     chloride               Chlorine
                                       Plant      17     o      o       o        o
                                       EflIuent
2    Fenic      Anthracite! Free       Raw        18     17     o       o        o
     chloride   sand        Chlorine
                                       Plant      18     o      o       o        o
                                       Efiluent
3    AllllTI    Antlnacite! Free       Raw        18     11     6       6        o
                sand        Chlorine
                                       Plant      18     o      o       o        o
                                       Efiluent
4    Polymer    Sand        FreeiMono- Raw        17     53     18      29       6
                            chloramine
                                       Plant      17     6      o       o        o
                                       Efiluent
5    Fenic      Anthracite! FreeiMono- Raw        18     39     o       11       o
     sulfute    sand        chloramine
                                       Plant      18     11     o       o        o
                                       Efiluent
6    AllllTI    GAOsand FreeiMono- Raw            18     56     22      22       o
                            chloramine
                                       Plant      18     22     o       o        o
                                       Efiluent
*Disinfectants are listed as the primary disinfectant followed by the residual disinfectant,
if different.

   Species of rapid and slow growing mycobacteria detected in the six
conventional raw and plant effluent samples are listed in Table 11.3. A wide
variety of slow and rapidly growing Mycobacterium subspecies were recovered,
with the most predominant isolates identified as representatives of M terrae
and M coronae (Table 11.3). The greatest variety of species was recovered
from those water samples that yielded the highest numbers of Mycobacterium
subspecies. There did not appear to be a species that was restricted to any
particular site or type of sample.
148                        Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


Table 11.3 Identification of rapid or slowly growing Mycobacterium spp. in raw or plant
effluent water samples (Adapted from LeChevallier et al. 2001)

 Site     Samele                  MJ!.cobacterium sl!l!'     Percent Occurrence
  1       Raw                     M gordonae                 18
                                  M terrae                   18
                                  M chelonae                 6
                                  slow unknown               6

  2       Raw                     M gordonae                 11
                                  M terrae                   11

  3       Raw                     M terrae                   11
                                  M aurum                    6

 4        Raw                     M terrae                   29
                                  M gordonae                 18
                                  slow unknown               12
                                  M jlavescens               6
                                  Mfortuitum                 6
                                  M marinum                  6
                                  M smegmatis                6
          Plant Effluent          unknown                    6

 5        Raw                     slow unknown               22
                                  M   gordonae               17
                                  M   terrae                 17
                                  M   marinum                6
          Plant Effluent          M   terrae                 11

  6       Raw                     slow unknown               28
                                  M gordonae                 22
                                  Mfortuitum                 11
                                  M abscessus                6
                                  M aurum                    6
                                  M jlavescens               6
                                  M shimoidei                6
                                  M szulgai                  6
                                  M terrae                   6
                                  rapid unknown              6
          Plant Effluent          M terrae                   17
                                  slow unknown               6


   The ability of mycobacteria to grow within the treatment process was also reported
by Le Dantec et al. (2002a) from a study of two treatment plants located in the Paris
suburbs. The concentration of mycobacteria was between 20 and 20 000 cfull
                    Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                          149

following the clarification step (pre-ozone, coagulation-flocculation and rapid sand
filtration) of the Orly plant, but was reduced to 10 to 20 cM at the end of the water
treatment process (ozone, GAC filtration, chlorine disinfection). All samples after rapid
sand filtration were positive for mycobacteria, including M gordonae, M peregrinum
and unidentified strains. After prefiltration (pre-ozone, coagulation-flocculation and rapid
sand filtration) at the Ivry plant the concentration of mycobacteria was between 20 and
2000 cfull, but by the end of the treatment process (slow sand, ozone, GAC filtration,
chlorine disinfection), the maximum value observed was only 60 cfUlI. Mycobacteria
detected after slow sand filtration included M peregrinum, M jlavescens and
M chelonae. Only one sample after ozonation was positive, at 10 cM of
M nonchromogenicium; however, when ozone-treated water was filtered through GAC
filters, all samples were positive for mycobacteria Slow sand filter eftluent samples
typically contained lower levels of mycobacteria than did rapid sand filters, although it is
difficult to attribute this difference to the physical removal of the organisms by the filter
medium or the lower nutrient levels following the biological activity of the slow sand
filters. No treatment plant samples were positive for either M avium or M intracellulare
and finished plant eftluent samples were typically negative for mycobacteria (Le Dantec
et al. 2002a).
     GAC used in point-of-use treatment devices can accumulate bacterial nutrients and
neutralized disinfectant residuals, thus providing an ideal environment for microbial
growth (Tobin et al. 1981; Geldreich et al. 1985; Reasoner et al. 1987; LeChevallier &
McPeters 1988). The presence of a silver bacteriostatic agent did not prevent the
colonization and growth ofHPC bacteria in GAC filters (Tobin et al. 1981; Reasoner et
al. 1987). Rodgers et al. (1999) observed the growth of M avium in point-of-use filters in
the presence of lOOO J..lglml of silver. Ridgway et al. (1985) reported that hydrophobic
surface interactions between bacterial cell surfaces and cellulose acetate membrane filters
resulted in a 25-fold more effective adhesion of Mycobacterium subspecies than did the
hydrophilic E. coli strain tested. The strong hydrophobic surface properties of
mycobacteria result in these organisms being the predominant membrane-fouling
microorganism, particularly in the initial operation of the filter (Ridgway et al. 1985).


11.2.2 Disinfection
The high concentration of mycolic acid and the hydrophobic surface characteristics of
mycobacteria are also primarily responsible for the high resistance of the group to
chemical disinfection. Often, mycobacteria and other mycolic acid-producing genera
(Nocardia, Rhodococcus) are the only bacterial organisms surviving chlorine disinfection
of drinking-water supplies (Norton & LeChevallier 2000). Most species of mycobacteria
survive challenge with 1 mgll free chlorine (Carson et al. 1978, 1988a). du Moulin et al.
(1988) found M marinum to be resistant to lO mgll free chlorine. Haas et al. (1983)
150                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

found that there was no reduction in acid-fast bacterial numbers following chlorination in
the water treatment plant examined.
   Taylor et al. (2000) examined the disinfection resistance of five strains of M avium
to free chlorine, monochloramine, chlorine dioxide and ozone (Table 11.4) and
determined the disinfectant concentration multiplied by the time for a 3-log or 99.9%
inactivation (CT 99.9%). The authors applied centrifugation techniques to minimize
mycobacteria clumping that would interfere with disinfection. Free chlorine CT999 %
values for the M avium strains were 700- to 3000-times greater than that for E. coli.
Similarly, the CT99.9% values of the M avium strains for chlorine dioxide and ozone
were at least 100- and 50-fold greater (respectively) than the E. coli strain. The
M avium strains could be divided into two groups based upon their susceptibility to
chloramines. Three of the strains were at least six times more resistant than the E. coli
C strain, whereas two of the M avium strains were as susceptible to monochloramine
as was E. coli C.
Table 11.4 Calculated disinfection CT99.9% (mgminll) for E. coli C and M avium strains*
(Adapted from Taylor et al. 2000)

Disinfectant                  ............ !rIyC;l!~c;It!!iIl~.Il1:'i~~!!.~....
(Culture          Control
condition)        E.coliC           AS                1060                 1508       5002       5502
Chlorine          0.088±            106±9             204±36               164± 28    126±27     51 ± 10
(M7H9)            0.003
Chlorine          Not Done          1552±             1445±                596± 292   962± 431   551 ± 290
(water)                             403               238
Monochlorami      73±28             97±9              458± 152             548±62     1710±      91 ±34
ne                                                                                    814
Chlorine          0.015 ±          Not                8±3                  Not Done   11 ±2      2±0.1
Dioxide           0.003            Done
Ozone             0.002±           Not                O.17±                Not Done   O.12±      O.10±
                  0.002            Done               0.14                            0.01       0.01

* Cells were exposed to the disinfectants in demand-free phosphate buffer (PH 7.0) at 23°C
   Data published by Taylor et al. (2000) also demonstrated large variations in
sensitivity to disinfection among M avium isolates. Two epidemiology-linked strains
(5502 water isolate and 5002 AIDS patient isolate) with the same PFGE pattern showed
markedly different sensitivity patterns to free chlorine, chloramines and chlorine dioxide.
Some of the variability between strains (and various research studies) can be attnbuted to
the degree of clumping, growth conditions and physiological properties. The authors
reported that strain 5502 (water isolate) grew faster than strain 5502 (clinical isolate), and
that the growth rate could be related to the increased resistance to disinfection. The
authors demonstrated that isolates grown in low-nutrient tap water were between 4 and
15 times more resistant to free chlorine disinfection than isolates propagated in
Middlebrook 7H9 broth. Le Dantec et al. (2002) reported that the inactivation rate of
                      Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                          151

M gordonae increased 9-fold when the concentration of the growth medium was diluted
10-fold. Increased disinfection resistance has been observed for other low-nutrient grown
waterborne microbes (LeChevallier et al. 1988).
    The USEPA requires surface water treatment plants to apply filtration and
disinfection, primarily as a means of controlling Giardia (USEPA 1989, 1998). Facilities
that use conventional coagulation, sedimentation, and filtration are required to apply
sufficient disinfection to achieve at least 0.5 log inactivation of Giardia cysts. Data in
Table 11.5 shows M avium (average of the five strains in Table 11.4) to be more
resistant than Giardia to free chlorine disinfection, but equal or more sensitive than
Giardia to monochloramine, chlorine dioxide and owne. However, both organisms are
more sensitive to disinfection than are Oyptosporidium oocysts (LeChevallier & Au
2003). Similar comparisons were made by Jacangelo et al. (2002) for 2-logs (99%)
inactivation of M fortuitum and Giardia (Table 11.6). The observed level of inactivation
for M fortuitum is higher than other reports, in part because the researchers did not
attempt to reduce or eliminate bacterial clumps. However, similar to data in Table 11.5,
mycobacteria were 3 to 10 times more resistant than Giardia to free chlorine disinfection.
Table 11.5 Comparison of disinfection conditions (CT99.9"10 in mgmin/l) for Giardia cysts and
Mavium

  Disinfectant                                Giardia cysts                 M. avium
  Chlorine                                   46                             130
  Monochloramine                             700*                           580
  Chlorine Dioxide                            11                            7
  Ozone                                      0.48                           0.13
Data are for pH 7.0, 23-25 0c. Average M    avium data based on Taylor et al. 2000.
* Extrapolated.
Table 11.6 Comparison of free chlorine disinfection (CT99"10 in mgmin/l) for Giardia cysts and
Mfortuitum

 Temperature (OC)
                                   pH            Giardia cysts             M. fortuitum
               5                   6.0                 70                > 320-1000
               5                   7.0                 99                320-630
               5                   8.0                144                > 320-> 1000
              15                   6.0                 35                90-320
              15                   7.0                 50                500-> 1000
              15                   8.0                 72                > 320-1000
              25                   6.0                 17                50- > 320
              25                   7.0                 25                130->320
              25                   8.0                 36                130->320
Data for free chlorine at 1.0 mg!l, based on Jacangelo et al. 2002
152                                                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water



    Data for disinfection of other NTM by free chlorine are shown in Table 11.7. Cells
were initially cultured on Middlebrook 7H I 0 agar but resuspended in sterile reverse
osmosis water for four to five weeks to adapt the strains to low nutrient conditions.
Similar data by Le Dantec et al. (2002) are shown in Figure 11.2. Although the CT
values differ between different investigators and replicates of the same species (e.g.
M chelonae) showed large variations in disinfection sensitivity, the relative rank of
chlorine sensitivity was similar (Mfortuitum and M chelonae were more resistant
than M gordonae) and, in general, the isolates were more sensitive to free chlorine
disinfection than the M avium strains shown in Table 11.4.
Table 11.7 Free chlorine disinfection of mycobacteria

                                                                        CTvalue
  Organism                                                              (mgmin/l)                                                           Log Inactivation
  M. fortuitum                                                          2                                                                   0.04
                                                                        42                                                                  2.9
  M chelonae                                                            2                                                                   0.03
                                                                        IQ5                                                                 25
                                                                        21                                                                  4.75
                                                                        42                                                                  28
  M gordonae                                                            2                                                                   0.07
  M scrofidaceum                                                        2                                                                   0.08
Data based on Carson el al. 1978; 1988a. Data are for pH 7.0, 22-25 0c.
                8                                                                              CI (mIJ'l1IILf')
                    o                     20                           .0                  110              U                        ,00                      ,za      \40
                Ok


            u.
                        r~                "
                                               ...
                         ,,
                        J...--t--                              .....
                                                                       "')
            ,, '
          ~ ~
                .   ~..I
                         \ "',
                           ", .\
                                      .
                                      J
                                                                             .....
                                                                                 -~
                                                                                     ..... .....
          I<r                l                 '                                                   .....
                                 I                 •                                                       .....
                                                       f                                                           .....

                                     .,,
            25 -             •
                                     \.                    '
                                                           '-,                                                             .....
                                                                                                                                   ..... ......
                3 -                                                                                                                                                          I
            3.~ I                                                  '                                                                              .....

                                                                                                                                                                             J
                                          1            . _- \                                                                                             ,    ..
                                          I .                                                                                           .                      .....
                .. ~ \.                                                      • M.QO<do<t...                            ~_~



Fig. 11.2 Disinfection of mycobacteria by free chlorine. Experimental conditions: pH 7.0,
25 °C, initial free chlorine concentration 0.5 mgll. Reprinted from Le Dantec el al. 2002a.
                   Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                      153

   Disinfection of a variety of mycobacteria by chloramines was reported by
Pelletier et al. (1991) (Table 11.8). The decreasing CT for 0.5-10g inactivation
with higher chloramine doses suggests that clumping or disinfectant demand
may be influencing these results. However, M avium were more resistant than
the other mycobacteria examined.
   Application of ultraviolet light for microbial inactivation is gaining increased
attention, especially for control of Cryptosporidium. Inactivation data for
mycobacteria by UV light is shown in Table 11.9. Although sensitivities vary
among Mycobacterium species, the values are generally in the range for other
vegetative bacteria (http://www.iuva.org). David et al. (1971) reported that
M tuberculosis and M marinum were capable of photoreactivation, with an
increase of 40-56% following irradiation with visible light for one hour.
McCarthy and Schaeffer (1974) reported a 1.7-10g increase in M avium counts
following exposure to 9 mJ/cm 2 and a 3-hour photoreactivation. They also noted
that the 14-day post-exposure incubation period for M avium provided ample
opportunity for significant dark repair ofUV lesions.


Table 11.8 Chloramine disinfection of mycobacteria for 0.5 log inactivation

                                   Chloramine      CT                CT value
      Organism                     (mg/I)          (min)             (mg' min/I)
      M avium 743                  1.0             600               600
                                   3.0             240               720
                                   6.5             30                195
      M avium 723                  1.0             600               600
                                   3.0             240               720
                                   6.5             30                195
      M intracellulare             1.2             258               310
                                   3.0             120               360
                                   6.5             30                195
      M chelonae                   1.6             48                76
                                   3.0             36                108
                                   6.5             6                 39
      M gordonae                   1.6             60                96
                                   3.0             40                120
                                   6.5             10                78
      M kansasii                   1.2             60                72
                                   3.0             10                30
                                   6.5             9                 58
      Mfortuitum                   1.5             36                54
                                   3.0             24                72
                                   6.5             2                 19.5
Data based on Pelletier et al. 1991. Data are for pH 7.0, lrC
154                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water




Table 11.9 Inactivation of mycobacteria by ultraviolet light

                               Log              UV dose
    Strain                     inactivation     (mJ/cm2)       Reference
    M tuberculosis H37Rv                        5.7            David et al. 1971
    M tuberculosis Erdman                       2.4            Collins 1971
    M tuberculosis                              2.8            David 1973
    M aviumDM9*                2                7              McCarthy and
    M avium-intracellulare     2                14             Schaeffer 1974
    T-93J-72 *                 1                8.4            David 1973
    M avium-intracellulare                                     David 1973
    T-93J-72 *
    M bovisBCG                                  2.4            Co Hins 1971
    M Jortuitum strain 1                        3.2            David et al. 1971
    M Jortuitum strain 2                        8.9            David et al. 1971
    M Jortuitum strain 56                       6.8            David 1973
    M phlei strain 44                           7.6            David 1973
    M kansasii (avg. of6                        13.3           David 1973
    strains) *
    M marinum strain 1                          17.8           David et al. 1971
    M marinum strain 1                          17.0           David et al. 1971
    M flavescens                                12.0           David 1973
    M smegmatis                                 24.3           David et at. 1971
    M smegmatis                                 10.8           David 1973
*          Data following photoreactivation



   A comparison performed by Jacange10 et al. (2002) of mycobacteria
inactivation to other emerging pathogens is shown in Figures 11.3-11.7. The
data show that in general, Cryptosporidium is the controlling organism for
surface water disinfection. For UV, adenoviruses are the most resistant microbe.
However, for nearly all disinfectants, mycobacteria are among the most resistant
microbes. The ubiquitous occurrence of mycobacteria in the aquatic
environment and their ability to grow within water treatment filters means that
effective disinfection is an important part of the multiple barrier approach to
reducing the risk of these organisms in drinking-water supplies.
                       Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                                   155

         Range of Cl values reported for YY% lnactlvsUon of various organisms wlUl
                                       rree chlorine ·

        · C ondJtlons: T - 20 - 2S·C, pH - 7
                                                              c ,,'ptarporldJum
                                                                  pan'''III
                                                                      3




                                               ~"COlxu;lerl"-I"

                              ~ __-,---~ jbrlN.:blm                       ~'{J'cobaclerlum
                                                                              O"/UIII

                                 Leg/ollella                                        5
                                       6




                      mJcl'o~por1dJa

                     (E.   1"~"IIlfaJis)                                        nllcrosp0l1d1a
                                                                                (E. /"tat/lfaJis)
                                                                                     (3 logs)




                                   poUovlrus
                                           6




                callclvtrus

                                   IiIdenovirus



                                                                  1 SVITR Guid ance Manual
                                                                  2 Sob.ey 1989
                                                                  3 ROle et a1 1997
                                                                  4 Wolk. et al 2000
                                                                  S T_ylor cl AI 2000
                                                                  6 JacanaeJo   let aI   2002




Fig. 11.3 Comparison of CT values for microbial inactivation by free chlorine. From
Jacangelo et at 2002
156                             Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

          Range ofCl v alues reported for 99% blHcUvatlon of various organisms with
                                        chloranrlnes·

        ' ·Condltlons: T - 20 - 2S· C, pH - 7




                                                           Jt.{J'CObtu:krlM.m
                                                             JbrlNibllll
                                                                   2




                                      .IJ,{ycobackrlll.m
                       Leg/Dilella                                                      lJ{)'CObaeterlIlHl
                                         ./brlNibull
                            6
                                                6             pOllOvIJ'1U                    avilLm

                                                                   •                        (.1 Jogs)



                                                              P O UOvlnlS

                                                                   •
                                          adt.novlrus
                                                                        E~:II~




                         caDclvtnlS




                                                               1 SWTR Gur.dance Manual
                                                               2 Sob.ey 1989
                                                               3 ROle et aI 1997
                                                               4 Board on TOXlcoloaY 2000
                                                               :::; Tay10rel al. 2000
                                                               6 J.tangelo et al2002




Fig. 11.4 Comparison of CT values for microbial inactivation by chloramines. From
Jacangelo el al 2002
                    Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                                        157

         Range of Ct values reported for 99% inactJvaUon of various organisms wiU.
                                           ozone-
                   T - 20 _ 2S·C, pH - 7




                                      iJl{yt:obacleriu.nJ
                                         ./brtuitum
                                               S
                     Leg/onella
                         S


                                                             mlcrospor1dJa
                                                                                         pollovlrus
                                                            (E. inlatinaJls)
                                                                                                 3
                                                                 (s·q




                   ,------,,1aden;~s I                                         lJ.(}'colNIckrllLm
                                                                                      avi"m
                                                                                      (.Jlogs)
                                                                                         4


                                                               1 SWTR GuIdance Manual

                     clilllclYil'U5                            2Ro.eetal 1997
                                                               3 Sob.ey 1989
                                                               4 Taylor el aI. 2000
                                                               5 J.cangelo el aI 2002




Fig. 11.5 Comparison of CT values for microbial inactivation by chlorine dioxide. From
Jacangelo e/ al2002
158                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

          Range of IT valu es reported for 99% ina ctivation of various organisms wlUl
                                              UV




                           [ .d.n:~s          I
                                                       adenovtnu - ]




                                                     CryplosporldJllln
                                                         ptllvum




                                 mlcrospondla
                                (E. inlestiltaJis)
                                        8




                                                               1 SWI'R GuIdance Manual
                                                               2 Lnden and Sobley 2000
                                                               3 Meo& and Gerba 1996
                                                               4 Srueer et III 1998
                                                               5 Battl&elh et ill 1993
                                                               6 Bukhan et at 1998
                                                               7 DaVid 1973
                                                               8 Taylor et aI 2000


Fig. 11.6 Comparison of CT values for microbial inactivation by ozone. From Jacangelo
e/al2002
                       Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                                  159

           Range of C t values reported for 99% inactivatlon of various organJsms with
                                         chlorine dioxide·

        ·Condldon.l: T - 20 · 2S·C, pH - 7




                                                                        CryptosporldJllm
                                                                              pan'",,,
                                                                                    J
                        Legion.dla
                             S




                                                              A-{)-cobaderlllm
                                                                                        Giardia

                        A(ycobacluilim
                                                                  In"'"I1'                    Z
                                                                  (.1 logs)
                           forlNibim
                                                 eallclvlnu




                                                                               I pouo.~, I


                                             poUovbus
                                              ('"C)
                                                                              D
                                                                       I SWTR Guidance Manual
                                                                      2 ROle el at 1997
                                                                      3 RuffeU et   at 2000
                                                                      4 Board on TO)Qcoio&y 2000
                                                                      5Jacan,aeloetal2002
                                                                      6 T.ylor ct aI 2000




Fig. 11.7 Comparison of CT values for microbial inactivation by ultraviolet light. From
Jacangelo e/ al 2002
160                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


11.3      REGROWTH OF MYCOBACTERIA IN DRINKING
          WATER
Bacteria can grow in high-quality drinking-water supplies utilizing trace levels
of minerals and organic carbon to produce cellular material (biomass). Studies
have demonstrated that bacterial survival and growth in drinking-water
distribution systems is dependant upon a complex interaction of parameters
(LeChevallier 2003; van der Kooij 2003). These factors are summarized in
Table 11.10. For example, temperature is widely recognized as an important
controlling factor in influencing bacterial growth. In climates where water
temperatures are warm, bacterial growth may be very rapid.

Table 11.10 Factors associated with bacterial growth/occurrence in drinking-water

               Factor
 a             Treatment process, filtration
 b             Temperature
 c             Disinfectant type, concentration
 d             Biodegradable organic matter
 e             Pipe material, corrosion
 f             Water chemistry
 g             System maintenance, flushing
 h             Flow velocity, reversal, system shear


11.3.1 Biodegradable organic matter
The presence of biodegradable organic matter in water has been associated with the
growth of heterotrophic bacteria. Biodegradable organic matter is commonly measured
as AOC or BDOC. AOC is detennined using a bioassay (van der Kooij 1990, 1992) and
measures the microbial response to biodegradable materials in water. AOC levels
(geometric means) in 90 North American drinking-water systems ranged from 20 to
214 f..LgIl with a median of 100 f..LgIl (LeChevallier et aZ. 1996; Yolk & LeChevallier
2000). BDOC is the difference in the concentration of dissolved organic carbon before
and after bacterial growth in a sample and measures the amount of nutrient readily
available for bacterial growth (Joret & Levi 1986). Levels of BOOC in 30 North
American water systems ranged from 0 to 1.7 mgIl, with a median level of 0.38 mgll
(Volk & LeChevallier 2000). AOC and BDOC levels tend to be higher in surface water
supplies and lower in groundwaters, where microbial activity removes biodegradable
organic matter as the water percolates through the soil.
   To examine the effect of source water type (surface or ground), post-treatment
disinfectant (free chlorine or chlorarnines), and biodegradable organic matter, researchers
(Falkinham et aZ. 2001; LeChevallier et aZ. 2001) examined eight well-characterized
drinking-water systems (Table 11.11). Samples were collected monthly for 18
                         Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                               161

    consecutive months from the raw water, plantlwell effluent, a distribution system mid-
    point and a dead-end site. M avium and M intracellulare were frequently isolated from
    drinking-water biofilm samples (Figure 11.8). The data showed that M avium levels
    were reduced by conventional water treatment, but increased due to regrowth in the
    distribution system. Increases in M avium levels in drinking-water correlated with levels
    of AOC (? = 0.65,p = 0.029) and BDOC (? = O.64,p = 0.031) (Falkinham et al. 2001).
    Table 11.11 Summary of nutrient levels for full-scale systems
                                                           AOClevels
          Source    Disinfectant type         Expected     ~                    BDOC levels (IIIl!!Iitrei
Site      water     <I!re!~st}          n     level        Observed    Range    Observed Range
1         Surfuce   Owne!               16    High         234 (59)'   161-     0.48         0.15--0.71
                    Free chlorine                                      383      (0.19)
2         Surfuce   Free chlorine       17    MOOium       113 (41)    66-220   0.28         0.Q6-.{).58
                                                                                (0.17)
3         Surfuce   Free chlorine       17    Low          61 (86)     21-391   0.04         0.0--0.34
                                                                                (0.09)
4         Ground    Free chlorine       17    Low          28 (43)     5--168   0.07         0.0--0.70
                                                                                (0.18)
5         Swface  Free chlorine!     16  High        215 (110)    127-          0.70    0.31-1.0
                  Monochlornmine                                  484           (0.22)
6        Surfuce Free chlorine!      18  MOOium      109 (80)     37-301        0.34    0.0--0.81
                  Mooochlornmine                                                (0.20)
7        Surfuce Free chlorine!      17  Llw4        98 (53)      49--270       0.40    0.0I--{).76
                  Monochlornmine                                                (0.16)
8        Ground   Free chlorine!     17  Low         17 (9)       6-33          0.06    0.0--0.26
                  Mooochlornmine                                                (0.08)
  lGeometric mean; 2Average values; ~umbers in parentheses represent standard deviations; 4Actual
  levels of AOC and BDOC were higher than expected for this site.

        In controlled pilot plant experiments, the effect of biodegradable organic matter on the
    growth of M avium and natural HPC bacteria was investigated (Norton et al. 2004).
    Biofilms of M avium and HPC bacteria formed within one week and appeared to
    stabilize over a two to three month period (Table 11.12). The results showed that the
    density of biofilm bacteria increased with increasing AOC levels, but that biofilms of
    M avium readily grew in the absence of a disinfectant residual at AOC levels of 40 IlWl.
    Therefore, minimizing the level of biodegradable organic matter in drinking-water can
    help limit the density of mycobacteria, but probably cannot prevent their occurrence.
    Carson et al. (1978) reported growth of M chelonae in commercial distilled water to
    levels of 105 to 106 cells/ml and levels were maintained over a one-year period. Collins et
    al. (1984) reported detection of mycobacteria in water softening resins and in water from
    deionizers. Groundwater typically has low levels of biodegradable organic matter due to
    the natural removal of nutrients as the water percolates through the soil. However, Covert
    et al. (1999) reported detecting M gordonae in 31 % ofl6 groundwater systems.
 162                                                                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water




                                                 7

                                                 6
                                     ~
                                   ',c           5
                                   ';;;
                                   Q
                                   ~

                                    ..'"
                                   15.
                                                 4

                                   E             3
                                   '"'$.'"
                                   ~             2
                                                                                                                                                                                        &

                                                                                                                                                                       Site #
                                                    \\\\\~{e
                     ~. \,,\{~ce                                                 ~. ~~W{\\

Fig. 11.8 Occurrence of M avium and M intracellulare in distribution system biofilm
samples (N = 55)

Table 11.l2 M avium and HPC biofilm levels in a pilot distribution system supplied
with various levels of AOC (Adapted from Norton et al. 2004)


Weeks
Sampled~l.I~~li~~l~~l!:g(!~?l!:g(!AQG)Q~l!:g!IAQG~I~l!:g!! AQG
                       HPC                               M. avium HPC                                               M avium HPC                          M. avium HPC                       M. avium
 I                     5.27                              4.24                             5.04                     3.86                       5.62       4.41        5.08                   3.68
4                      5.95                              4.10                             6.27                     3.89                       6.40       4.03        6.82                   4.89
9                      5.99                              3.17                             6.08                     4.44                       6.64       3.85        7.16                   5.36
10                     5.51                              4.90                             6.31                     4.44                       6.74       4.96        6.88                   5.96
                       6.51                              5.07
II ...............................................................                        6.33 -
                                                                  _..- .......................................     4.27 - ..........
                                                                                                                 ............................ 6.50
                                                                                                                                                ----.-   3.91        6.98      _            4.04
                                                                                                                                                                 ........... .............. __ ..........
Avg                    5.85                              4.30                             6.0 I                    4.18                       6.38       4.23        6.58                   4.79
Va lues are log cfu/cm2; AOC values are geometric means; no disinfectant was applied;
pH 7.2,24 °C


11.3.2 Impact of water contact materials
Various water contact materials may leach substances that support bacterial growth.
For example, pipe gaskets and elastic sealants (containing polyamide and silicone) can
be a source of nutrients for bacterial proliferation. Coating compounds for storage
reservoirs and standpipes, bitumen, chlorinated rubber, epoxy resin or tar-epoxy resins
                                      Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                                                                  163

can contribute organic polymers and solvents that may support regrowth of
heterotrophic bacteria (Schoenen 1986; Thofem et al. 1987). In general, the larger
surface to volume ratio in smaller diameter pipes (compared with larger pipes) results
in a greater impact ofbiofilm bacteria on bulk water quality. The greater surface area
of small pipes also increases reaction rates that deplete chlorine residuals.
    The pipe surface itself can influence the composition and activity of microbial
biofilm populations. Studies have shown that biofilms developed more quickly on iron
pipe surfaces than on plastic PVC pipes (LeChevallier et al. 1993; Camper 1996) and
that iron pipes support a more diverse microbial population than PVC pipes (Norton &
LeChevallier 2000). The impact of pipe composition on the biofilm growth of
M avium is shown in Figure 11.9. M avium levels were higher on iron and galvanized
pipe than on PVC or copper surfaces. The resistance of M avium to zinc may enhance
its survival on galvanized pipe surfaces (Kirschner et al. 1992).
                8


      Na
                7
                                                                                /~----.
      ~ 6
      = 5 .---------------
      U
        c
                           ------ :..:.
                   ,...--= ......::
                           _.        . ; "/          ..--------/
                                                           ...... ,/.......     ,/
                                                                              ..".
                                                                                        ......
                                                                                     ......,         .............. .-- .....
                                                                                                                                .     -.-
                                                                                                                                       Iron

                                                                                                                                    Galva nized
                                                                                                                                      .-.
      =                     r"'~/                    .....            -II"-                      "
      i......
      :;
                4               ,,                       ..            ..                """     " ,               .
                                                                                                         "J. .......
                                                                                                                                      .- .
                                                                                                                                      cPVC



        ~ 3
                            ~                 .                                                                                       Copper
                                                                                                                                        '0-

      ..J
                2           .
                                         ~",o,       ~,o,         ~","v               ~,,,                                ~,o,
                       \1-"
                    ",'1;             ",">        ",">          cl"     ~                            ","~"            ","
                                                              Sample Date

Fig. 11.9 Impact of pipe composition on biofilm growth of M avium . Adapted from
LeChevallier et al. 200 I

   The effect of the combination of biodegradable organic matter, disinfectant type and
pipe composition on the survival of M avium and HPC bacteria is shown in Table 11.13.
The lowest level of biofilms occurred on copper under low nutrient and free chlorine
conditions. Chloramines controlled biofilms on iron pipes better than free chlorine,
particularly under low-nutrient conditions. Pelletier et al. (1991) suggested that use of
chloramines as a disinfectant may select for the presence of M avium in drinking-water
supplies, although many systems that convert to chloramines do so because of high levels
of organic carbon in the water supply that form chlorinated disinfection by-products.
164                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Table 11.13 Impact of nutrient level, disinfectant and pipe material on M avium and
HPC levels
                                 Disinfectant
             Disinfectant        Residual        ~«:!pp':t:rip':~!t:«:!~rip,:l
AOC Level    Type                (mg/l)         HPC M.avium HPC M. avium
85 flg/l AOC Free chlorine       0.6            1.76 0.18   6.02 5.85
             Chloramine          2.2            2.44 2.38   5.21 4.92
213 flg/lAOC Free chlorine       0.3            2.17 0.37   5.93 5.50*
             Chloramine          1.4            2.43 2.10   5.89 5.20*
lValues are log cfu/cm2; *Corrosion products interfered with these analyses. Adapted
from Norton et al. 2004


11.4    OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL AND CONTROL FACTORS
11.4.1 Temperature
The resistance of mycobacteria to heat and freezing may influence its survival in
water systems and in treatment residuals. Certain thermophilic species
(M cheionae, M avium or M xenopi) survive at temperatures above 55°C;
whereas, under the same conditions, M kansasii or M marinum are quickly
destroyed (Merkal & Crawford 1979; Schulze-Robbecke & Buchholtz 1992). It
has been speculated that differences in sensitivity to heat could account for
some of the seasonal variability between different isolates of mycobacteria
(Dailloux et al. 1999). Du Moulin et al. (1988) recovered M avium in a hospital
hot water system with water temperatures between 52 and 57°C. Von Reyn et
al. (1994) reported that the same strain of M avium was recovered from two
hospital recirculating hot water systems, with average or minimum temperatures
of 49°C, over a 24- to 41-month period. Isolates with the same PFGE pattern
were isolated from both the hot water systems and AIDS patients. Schulze-
Robbecke & Buchholtz (1992) reported that treatment of M avium suspensions
at 60°C for 4 minutes reduced viable counts by 1 log (Table 11.14). Norton et
al. (2004) showed that the effectiveness of the heat treatment was dependant
upon the pipe material, the level of nutrients and the effluent temperature
(Figure 11.10). Treatment was most effective for low-nutrient, hot water
(50°C), in copper pipes. For iron pipe, biofilms of M avium was inhibited when
effluent temperatures reached 52°C (inlet temperatures were 63 0C). For bacteria
suspended in the water column, M avium was detected at effluent temperatures
up to 52°C in the low nutrient system, but persisted at temperatures up to 53 °c
in the high nutrient system.
                   Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                         165

Table 11.14 Decimal reduction times (D) of mycobacteria at 50, 55, 60 and 70°C
(Adapted from Schulze-Robbecke & Buchholtz 1992)

                                                       D {s} at tem~ of
Species              Strain           50·C          55 ·C         60·C         70·C
M avium              DSM 43216        60750         3210          240          2.3
M chelonae           DSM 43283        10130         1360          260          5
Mfortuitum           DSM 43271        6330          1520          220          2
M intracellulare     DSM43224         32950         1470          91           4.5
M kansasii           Water isolate    3970          560           59           <10
M kansasii           Water isolate    4700          350           27           <10
M marinum            ATCC 927         4510          750           60           <10
Mphlei               DSM 750          NR            4210          420          2.8
M scrofulaceum       NCTC 10803       56030         3650          320          5.6
M xenopi             NCTC 10042       NR            20730         1980         22.5
DSM: Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen; ATCC: American
Type Culture Collection; NCTC: National Collection of Type Cultures; NR: no reduction
in cfu over a period of 48 hours

   Freezing is not normally thought of as a water treatment process although water
treatment sludges can be dewatered through a freeze/thaw process. In addition, biofilms
from distribution systems and institutional pipelines can become detached and
contaminate ice machines. Mycobacteria can survive freezing conditions for prolonged
periods with counts actually increasing after freezing (-75 DC in nutrient broth),
presumably due to disaggregation of bacterial clumps (livanainen et al. 1995).


11.4.2 Control of free living amoebae
M avium is capable of survival and growth in phagocytic protozoa
(Tetrahymena pyriformis)       and      amoebae       (Acanthamoeba polyphaga         and
Acanthamoeba castellaniz), and such growth can increase its virulence and provide
protection from antimicrobial agents (Cirillo et al. 1997; Miltner & Bennudez 2000). In
tact, protozoa intracellular growth rates of M avium, M intracellulare and
M scrofolaceum were 4- to 40-fold taster than compared to water-grown isolates (Strahl
et al. 2001). Therefore, it is possible that efforts to control the growth of free-living
amoeba and protozoa will have beneficial effects for reducing the risk of mycobacteria in
drinking-water. Few studies have specifically focused on the control of free-living
protozoa or the effect of control measures on .Mycobacterium risk, although it is likely
that efforts to reduce biofilms levels in drinking-water pipelines would also result in
lower amoeba and protozoa levels because these organisms feed on biofilm bacteria
Additional studies are needed in this area.
166                        Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water



         6                                                                    70
  ...0
  N
         5                                                                    60
  E
  ~
  :J                                                                          50Q:
  LL. 4
  (,)
  ---~
                                                                                   ...
                                                                                   C1)


  E..J                                                                        40E
  ... S3
  .2                                                                               ...
                                                                                   co


  -
  C1)
  u
  .c 2
  0
   co
                                                                              201-
                                                                                   C1)
                                                                              30 c..
                                                                                   E
                                                                                   C1)


  u
  >.
  ~                                                                           10

         0                                                                    0
                       -      Inlet Terrp -.- Suspended, Low
                       -      Outlet Terrp ___ Suspended, High
                       _      Iron biofilm _   Copper biofilm


Fig. 11.10 Impact of heat treatment on biofilm and suspended levels of M avium in water.
Low and high refer to AOC levels of 85 and 213 fig/I. Adapted from Norton et al. 2004.


11.5         ROLE OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
             RECONTAMINATION
Because mycobacteria exist with a wide variety of aquatic and soil environments (refer
to Chapter 3), there is a potential for these organisms to recontaminate the distribution
system from cross-connections, backflows, and intrusion events. From 1981 to 1998,
the CDC documented 57 waterborne disease outbreaks related to cross-connections,
resulting in 9734 illnesses (USEP A 2002). These include 20 outbreaks (6333 cases of
illness) caused by microbiological contamination, 15 outbreaks (679 cases of illness)
caused by chemical contamination, and 22 outbreaks (2722 cases of illness) where the
contaminant was not reported. Craun & Calderon (2001) report that 30.3% of
waterborne disease outbreaks in community water systems during 1971-1998 were
caused by contamination of water in the distribution systems and 50.6% were due to
cross-connection or backflow events. Because documented health impacts most often
involve acute gastrointestinal disorders, slow developing infections like those caused
by M avium would not be recognized.
    Increasing attention is being focused on the occurrence of transient negative
pressure events in distribution system pipes caused by sudden changes in water
velocity, typically caused by pump shutdowns, or main breaks or fire flows
                   Control, treatment and disinfection of MAC                        167

(LeChevallier et al. 2003). During a negative pressure event, contaminated water and
soil exterior to the pipe can enter into the distribution system through cracks, seals or
pipeline leaks. Karim et al. (J. Am. Water Works Assoc. In Press, 2003) reported on a
study that examined 66 soil and water samples collected from eight utilities in six
states. The samples were collected immediately adjacent to the drinking-water
pipelines to determine the presence of microbial contaminants in the soil. Total
coliform and faecal coliform bacteria were detected in water and soil in about half of
the samples, indicating the presence of faecal contamination. Viruses were detected
using either culturable or molecular methods in 56% of the samples. Although samples
in this study were not analysed for mycobacteria, it is likely that leaking sewer lines
could provide the high organic environment favourable for growth of mycobacteria
(Brooks et al. I 984a; Kirschner et al. 1992; Iivanainen et al. 1997).
    During the repair of main breaks it is likely that soil and water can enter the pipe
network. Traditional decontamination efforts using a chlorine solution to swab pipe
and fitting surfaces probably do little to inactivate mycobacteria due to their extreme
resistance to chlorine (Tables 11.5 to 11.7). Although flushing the affected pipe section
may be sufficient to remove sediment from the system, the high velocities may shear
biofilms of mycobacteria from pipe surfaces resulting in a net increase of
mycobacteria in the water column. For new construction, it is recommended that a
foam swab be installed during construction so that debris can be removed from the
pipeline prior to placing it into service (Geldreich & LeChevallier 1999).
    Given the level of external contamination by mycobacteria and the dilution that
would occur in drinking-water networks, the impact distribution system
recontamination is probably greatest as an inoculum to drinking-water biofilms, rather
than as a direct public health concern. Therefore, efforts to minimizing growth of
mycobacteria in drinking-water systems may reduce the concern with low-level
recontamination from external sources.


11.6     KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
Much of the research on mycobacteria in drinking water is still at the "observational"
stage, where investigators monitor a variety of water supplies and report their findings
of various mycobacteria species. Research on control and treatment must move to the
mechanistic and predictive stages where treatment systems can be designed based on
the ecology, survival, and risk of mycobacteria in water. Improvements in the
methodology for detection and enumeration of mycobacteria in water and biofilm
samples are necessary so that the efficacy of treatment is based reliable data. A list of
key research issues is provided below:

    •   Because proper chemical pretreatment is crucial for effective microbial
        removal by sedimentation and filtration, studies need to examine optimal
168                   Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

       coagulant doses for mycobacteria. Studies should understand how changes in
       microbial surface properties due to antecedent growth conditions, and the
       degree of aggregation, might influence removal efficiencies.
   •   Studies need to examine the effectiveness of filter operation and backwashing
       procedures to optimize the removal of mycobacteria, but at the same time
       minimize the growth of the organisms within the filter beds. The studies
       should focus on the effectiveness of backwashing procedures for limiting the
       occurrence of mycobacteria within the filter beds.
   •   Although there is extensive literature on the inactivation of mycobacteria by
       various disinfectants, little field information is available to demonstrate
       disinfection of mycobacteria in natural waters. Because disinfection is
       affected by antecedent growth conditions and the degree of aggregation, field
       validation of bench-scale experiments is imperative.
   •   Additional research is needed to demonstrate that reduced levels of
       biodegradable organic carbon can minimize the levels of mycobacteria in
       drinking water biofilms. The opportunity for greatest impact may be in warm
       water institutional plumbing systems. The role of pipe materials should also
       be considered.
   •   Research should examine the impact of control procedures for free-living
       protozoa and amoeba on mycobacteria occurrence and virulence.
   •   The efficacy of standard cleaning and disinfection protocols used during main
       repairs should be assessed with respect to control of mycobacteria.
   •   Infectious dose data and risk assessment models for mycobacteria, and in
       particular M avium, are needed to establish public health goals for potable
       water supplies. These goals are necessary to determine acceptable limits for
       exposure to mycobacteria in drinking water, and in tum establish objectives
       for control procedures. Finally, these health-related goals would enable
       researchers to evaluate various pathways of exposure and concentrate on
       those with the greatest risk.


Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the World Health Organization, and the utility
subsidiaries of the American Water Works Company, Voorhees, New Jersey, USA.
  12
 Approaches to risk management in
 priority setting

 T. Ford, J. Hermon-Taylor, G. Nichols, G.
 Cangelosi and J. Bartram




 12.1      INTRODUCTION
Traditionally, the role of the public health community is in prevention rather than
treatment of disease. Increasingly, it has been recognized that the HACCP approach
used extensively in the food industry (Doores 1999), may also be appropriate for
prevention and control of waterborne disease (Deere et al. 2001). Water source
protection, water treatment, disinfection and distribution all provide critical control
points for applying the HACCP approach. Critical levels can be established through
dose-response modelling and monitoring approaches developed for specific pathogens
or surrogate markers of microbial contamination. The field of molecular epidemiology




© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, O. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
170                       Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

has begun to provide the tools to monitor for the presence of pathogens that have yet to
be cultured (Rose & Grimes 2001).
   However, in order to effectively use the HACCP approach for protection of public
health from a specific waterborne pathogen, fundamental criteria need to be met.
These include the following: 1) the pathogen needs to be established as a hazard to
human health by the specific exposure path of interest; 2) dose-response studies need
to be conducted to establish critical control levels; 3) effective monitoring techniques
need to be available to evaluate those control levels; and 4) effective treatment must be
available at each critical control point. To date, it is unclear whether this approach
could be effective for control of diseases caused by environmental mycobacteria.


12.2      PUBLIC HEALTH RESPONSE
To date, the public health response to the environmental mycobacteria has been
directed at disease management and not at prevention. This fact is not surprising, as
current epidemiological data has failed to provide a convincing link between exposure
to waterborne mycobacteria and disease. As a result, prevention of mycobacterial
growth within water distribution systems and domestic hot water systems has received
little attention. Most outbreaks that have been epidemiologically-linked to water have
been small in scale, and none are directly linked to ingestion of tap water.
     Although it is certainly true that data is as yet insufficient to provide a link between
ingestion of tap water and mycobacterial disease, there is now considerable evidence
that environmental mycobacteria present a health hazard through exposure of abraded
skin to swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, footbaths, and aquaria (refer to Chapter 8).
These exposures generally lead to skin and soft tissue infections (Collins et al. 1984).
Inhalation of contaminated aerosols has also been linked to illnesses that range from
hypersensitivity pneumonitis to pneumonia (Embril et al. 1997; Shelton et al. 1999;
see also Chapter 9). The hospital environment also poses specific routes of exposure to
environmental mycobacteria. Contaminated tap and deionized water used in
bronchoscopy procedures has been linked to mycobacterial infections (see Chapter 10)
that have been readily controlled by installation of microbiological filters in the water
source (Stine et al. 1987; Graham et al. 1988). In the case of recreational and hospital
exposures to mycobacteria-contaminated water, the management response has been
relatively straightforward. For control of recreational exposures, rigorous adherence to
appropriate disinfection treatment, including superheating of water and education to
minimize abrasions, is recommended (WHO 2000). For hospital water,
microbiological filtration at tap water sites has been relatively effective.
     It is instructive to examine the public health response to Legionella pneumophila,
an opportunistic pathogen with similar etiology. L. pneumophila is similar in many
aspects to mycobacterial species in that it is truly an environmental pathogen, it is
relatively resistant to water treatment and disinfection, it survives intracellularly within
                            Approaches to risk management                             171

amoebae, it survives within biofilms, it is prevalent within hot water systems and can
be transmitted by the aerosol route, through direct ingestion or through skin abrasion
(Kramer & Ford 1994). Table 12.1 lists the similarities and differences between these
environmental pathogens.
Table 12.1 Similarities and differences between Legionella and Mycobacterium species.

                               Legionella spp.                Mycobacterium spp.
 Present in source waters      Yes                            Yes
 Resistant to treatment        Somewhat                       Very
 Survives intracellularly      Yes                            Yes
 Intracellular survival        Yes                            Yes
 affects virulence
 High mortality risk           LegionelIosis, Yes (15%)       No (accept for
                               Pontiac Fever, No              HIV/AIDS)
 Biofilm survival              Yes                            Yes
 Aerosol survival              Yes                            Yes
 Growth range                                                 Similar, depending on
                               20-45°C                        species
 Maximum temperature                                          Probably similar,
                               <60°C                          depending on species!

!M tuberculosis can survive at 60°C for 10 minutes, environmental mycobacteria may be
even hardier

    The public health response to L. pneumophila has been mixed, and its effectiveness
is debatable. This is in part due to the relatively low mte at which legionellosis is
diagnosed. It is thought today that a large percentage of hospital-acquired pneumonias
are due to L. pneumophila. The CDC estimates that between 8000 and 18000 people
get Legionnaires disease each year in the United States, with mortality ranging from 5
to 3D%. Legionella is one of the very few named organisms on EPA's National
Primary Drinking Water Regulations List, with a Maximum Contaminant Level Goal
of zero, and a Maximum Contaminant Level currently defined as a treatment
technique that can effectively remove/inactivate Giardia and viruses. The mtionale for
including legionella on this list is relatively clear. Legionellosis has a high mortality
risk and the routes of exposure are relatively clearly defined. It can be isolated from
source and drinking-water, and outbreaks have been directly linked to cooling towers,
whirlpools and showers. As a consequence, there are many resources available to
public health practitioners seeking guidelines for minimization of health risks from
Legionella. For example, Australia has published "Health (Legionella) Regulations
2001" that are specifically designed to:
     •    prescribe procedures for the maintenance and testing of cooling tower
          systems and warm water systems;
     •    require owners and people who have the management or control of cooling
          tower systems and warm water systems to keep records on the maintenance
172                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

          and testing of those systems and to make those records available for
          inspection by an authorized officer on request;
      •   enable the Secretary to the Department of Human Services to--
          a)        substitute different procedures in certain circumstances;
          b)        require additional procedures to be undertaken when a system is
                    suspected or implicated in the spread of the prescribed infectious
                    disease, legionellosis.

   Other countries have published their own guidelines and codes of practice; for
example, the Health and Safety Commission of the United Kingdom has published an
approved code of practice and guidance for Legionnaires disease (HSC 200 I).
    A number of resources are available for hospitals. In the United States, there are
numerous web-based resources to allow hospitals to develop management plans for
Legionella. In tact, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations specifically includes minimization of risks from "organizational-
acquired illness" in regulation JCAHO EC 1.7. This standard also requires that health
care facilities are responsible for "management of pathogenic biological agents in
cooling towers, domestic hot water, and other aerosolizing water systems." In the
industrial setting, the OSHA provide links to information on Recognition, Evaluation,
Control and Compliance. This includes information on cooling towers, heating,
ventilation and air-conditioning systems, hospital control and specific industrial issues
that include exposure of workers to Legionella in the plastic injection moulding
industry      and      workers      in      contact  with     metal-working        fluids
(http://www.osha.gov/SLTC/legionnairesdisease/index.htrnl).
    The argument has apparently not yet been made for mycobacterial species,
although there is clear evidence for outbreaks of disease related to many of the same
exposure paths. Indeed, control for the mycobacteria may in part be achieved through
control for Legionella, and it is certainly likely that utility management plans in
hospitals that are designed to reduce risk from Legionella will reduce risks from the
pathogenic mycobacteria in drinking and shower water, hydrotherapy, spa pools, etc.
However, it should also be recognized that the mycobacteria are probably more
resistant to disinfectants than Legionella.


12.3 MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
12.3.1 Drinking/bathing water
Management options for municipal water used for household uses such as drinking
and bathing should be aimed at a level that minimizes risk to the most susceptible
populations. In some countries, for example, pregnant women may bathe for extended
periods (hours), particularly where hot water supply is centrally controlled and
essentially free (Egorov, personal communication). The major problem is the inability
                          Approaches to risk management                              173

to quantify risk. A number of studies have shown colonization of water systems with
environmental mycobacteria, including MAC (Glover et al. 1994; Montecalvo et al.
1994; von Reyn et al. 1994) and M gordonae (Le Dantec et al. 2002). However, the
epidemiological link between presence of MAC in potable water and disease has not
been effectively made. In fact, major studies designed to address sources of
disseminated MAC infection in people with mY/AIDS have failed to [md an
association with home water, including home showering (Horsburgh et al. 1994; von
Reyn et al. 2002). The more recent publication concludes that "MAC infection results
from diverse and likely undetectable environmental and nosocomial exposures."
    The undeniable presence of environmental mycobacteria in municipal water
presents a number of exposure routes within the home, including drinking, bathing,
food preparation and even toilet flushing (Arbeit, personal communication). However,
without the epidemiological link with disease, the role of public health and water
management is unclear. Water treatment itself is likely to be ineffective due to the high
level of resistance of mycobacteria to disinfection (Le Dantec et al. 2002) and other
environmental stressors such as starvation, desiccation and temperature extremes
(Archuleta et al. 2002). The ability of mycobacteria to survive intracellularly within
amoebae (Cirillo et al. 1997), and within biofilms (Hall-Stoodley et al. 1999), would
additionally suggest that current treatment technologies are unlikely to remove
mycobacteria from drinking-water, or prevent persistent colonization within the
distribution system (see Chapter 11).
    What then are the alternatives for water management? In the United States, MAC is
listed on the CCL developed in 1998 to direct future regulatory efforts of the USEPA.
It was not, however, included on the unregulated contaminant monitoring rule of 1999,
presumably because the epidemiological link with disease had not been made. It
remains to be seen as to whether MAC will remain on the CCL for 2003, or be
considered in the second round of unregulated contaminant monitoring rule, scheduled
for 2004. However, without a stronger public health connection, it will be difficult to
justifY its further regulation. The similarity between the etiology of environmental
mycobacterial disease and the etiology of legionellosis is remarkable. L. pneumophila
is a regulated contaminant in drinking-water, yet most outbreaks of legionellosis are
linked to recreational, industrial and institutional exposures. The major difference
between mycobacterial infections and legionellosis is the high mortality rates
associated with the latter disease, the well-documented survival of Legionella in
warmlhot water systems, and the now extensive number of epidemiological studies
that link specific outbreaks to cooling tower aerosols.
    As with L. pneumophila, the source of many environmental mycobacteria is likely
to be potable water and exposure may predominantly occur through inhalation of
contaminated aerosols or aspiration of drinking-water. Until a stronger
epidemiological link is made, no definitive regulations are likely to be acceptable, or
174                      Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

even possible to implement. For the most susceptible populations, recommending
point-of-use microbiological filtration provides the only management option to date.


12.3.2 Recreational water
Management options for recreational waters are relatively straightforward. In general,
most outbreaks of mycobacterial infections (as with Legionella) can be related to
overcrowding in the facility, insufficient disinfection, poor filter and piping
maintenance. Swimming pools and hot tubs can be periodically shock-treated with
much higher levels of disinfectants than can be used for a potable water system. A
number of guides for disease prevention are available on-line and essentially provide
comprehensive management instructions for both private and public swimming pools,
hot tubs and spas (e.g. Freije 2000). Careful maintenance and cleaning schedules are
critical, as piping and filter material can provide an ideal environment for microbial
colonization. It is also suggested that bathers should be encouraged to avoid any
behaviour that could result in scrapes and scratches (WHO 2000). It is probably also
appropriate to caution immunocompromised individuals about their elevated health
risks from recreational water exposure to mycobacteria (and other pathogens) (WHO
2000). Superheating water to 70°C on a daily basis (Embil et al. 1997) can also be an
effective mechanism for reducing environmental mycobacteria (as well as Legionella).


12.3.3 Industrial exposure
The industrial environment in the United States is regulated by OSHA. OSHA
provides a wide range of resources for minimizing risks of worker exposure to
Legionella (e.g. OSHA 1999). Environmental mycobacteria present similar problems,
but may be harder to control in the work environment due to their greater resistance to
disinfection, and the potentially wider range of environments that support
mycobacterial growth.
   The National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health have produced a criteria
document 98-116 (NIOSH 1998) to recommend standards for occupational exposures
to metal-working fluids. Although microorganisms, including Legionella, are
mentioned as metal-working fluid contaminants, no exposure limits are currently
established. This is likely to change in the near future given the increasing number of
publications that link environmental mycobacteria (and most specifically
M immunogenum) to diseases such as hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
   The specific issue of cooling towers raises interesting questions. Potentially
pathogenic mycobacteria have been isolated from cooling tower water, but an
epidemiological link with disease has not yet been established. As research on
exposure routes to environmental mycobacteria continues, it is likely that cooling
tower aerosols will be increasingly suspect as sources of infectious agents. If this is the
                          Approaches to risk management                              175

case, it will be instructive to see whether the extensive guidelines and regulations
currently in place to reduce the legionellosis risks are equally effective in eliminating
the more disinfection resistant mycobacteria.


12.3.4 Institutional exposure
Essentially, management of exposure to environmental mycobacteria in hospital and
health care settings is similar to management for Legionella. Minimize the
opportunities for exposure through hydrotherapy, showering and other hot water use.
In addition, point-of-use filtration on tap water used for laboratory reagents, deionized
water and other hospital uses has been shown to be very effective at minimizing
pseudo-outbreaks linked to M avium, M gordonae and M scrofolaceum (Stine et al.
1987; Graham et al. 1988). Infections linked to contaminated ice-water have also been
effectively controlled by cleaning and disinfection of the ice machines (Labombardi et
al. 2002; Gebo et al. 2002).
    Control of Legionella in hot water systems has received considerable attention in
recent years. Temperatures above 45°C are considered to increase risks of scalding,
yet they are also at the upper temperature range for growth for both Legionella and the
mycobacteria. Control of these pathogens can be achieved in part by storage of hot
water at temperatures that kill the organisms; generally above 60°C for Legionella
(although the organism has been isolated from thermal effluent at 63°C) (Fliermans et
al. 1981). To prevent risks of scalding, hot water has to be mixed with cold water to
achieve a safe temperature prior to point of use. To reduce risks from both the
thermotolerant environmental mycobacteria and Legionella, the United States CDC
and the American Society of Heating Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Engineers
recommends that hot water is stored above 60°C and "circulated with a minimum
return temperature of 51 °C" (CDC 2001; ASHRAE 2000). They also recommend that
cold water is stored and distributed below 20°C to minimize growth of these
organisms. These guidelines are primarily based on studies with Legionella, and do not
appear to have been rigorously tested for their effectiveness at reducing environmental
mycobacterial infections.


12.3.5 The high risk groups
Both morbidity and mortality from environmental mycobacterial infections are
dramatically amplified in high risk groups. As environmental mycobacteria are
primarily opportunistic pathogens, this group requires the highest level of vigilance.
However, it should be remembered that environmental mycobacterial diseases are
increasing in populations with no predisposing factors; they have, therefore, become
a public health concern for all groups. It is certainly reasonable to suggest that high
risk groups (very young, elderly, immunocompromised, pregnant) should consider
176                    Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

minimizing exposure at public baths and spas. There are also reasonable arguments
to suggest that the most susceptible should avoid consumption of tap water without
point-of-use filtration (carefully regulated) or boiling. However, these are general
recommendations to prevent any infection in these high risk groups and not specific
for the mycobacteria.
   There are specific groups of people in tropical countries who primarily through
geographic distribution are susceptible to the devastating effects of Buruli ulcer
(refer to Chapter 8). At present the public health response is limited to early
detection and treatment as the exact routes of exposure are yet to be defined.


12.4     THE HACCP APPROACH TO MANAGEMENT
Can we identify \l HACCP approach to managing environmental mycobacteria?
The seven principles of HACCP begin with identification of hazards and
preventative measures (Table 12.2).
   The second step in the HACCP approach is to identify critical control points.
As for any pathogen found in municipal water systems, there is a flow chart of
potential critical control points from source to point of use/point of exposure:
Source protection -+ optimization of water treatment -+ ensure residual
disinfection -+ maintain distribution system integrity and water pressure -+
point-of-use protection (Ford 1999).
Table 12.2 Hazards linked to waterborne exposure to environmental mycobacteria and
associated preventative measures

                     Hazards                  Preventative measures
Identify hazards     Exposure to              Disinfection and microbiological
and preventative     contaminated             filtration. Placement of cooling towers,
measures             aerosols                 etc.
                     Aspiration of            Disinfection and microbiological
                     contaminated water       filtration. Education in bathing habits and
                                              use of, for example, whirlpool tubs
                     Ingestion of             Disinfection, microbiological filtration
                     contaminated water       and monitoring programs. Education in
                                              risks from tap-water consumption,
                                              particularly for the immunocompromised
                     Infection of abraded     Education around swimming pools and
                     skin                     spas. Appropriate disinfection, filtration
                                              or heating
                     Transmission through     Insect control programs
                     aquatic insects
                     (postulated for Burnli
                     ulcer)
                           Approaches to risk management                              177

    Source minimization of environmental pathogens is difficult due to the multiple
environmental pathways of source water contamination. In other words, point source
control is unlikely to be effective, with the exception of MAP (see below).
Coagulation/flocculation/filtration may be effective at reducing numbers of
environmental mycobacteria in drinking-water distribution. However, chlorination is
unlikely to be an effective method of control due to the chlorine resistance of the
organisms, and their ability to survive and possibly proliferate in protozoa and biofilms
(Cirillo et al. 1997; Field et al. 1997; Hall-Stoodley 1999). Given the inability of water
treatment to provide 100% removal of microorganisms, the water treatment plant is
unlikely to be the most effective means of environmental mycobacterial control.
    The distribution system itself can become rapidly recontaminated through leakage,
back-siphonage or cross-connections (Ford 1999). With ageing water distribution
systems worldwide, the only effective pathogen control within the distribution system
is maintenance of sufficient water pressure (to minimize back-siphonage or cross-
connection through leaks) and high levels of residual disinfection. Again, with the
environmental mycobacteria, residual chlorine is considered ineffective at inactivation.
In contrast to many other waterborne pathogens, where regrowth within the
distribution system is minimal or does not occur, point-of-use protection would appear
to be the most important critical control point for environmental mycobacteria.
    For organisms whose transmission path is thought to be primarily through the
inhalation route, point of use/point of exposure includes public use of municipal pools
and spas, showering, hot tub use, whirlpool baths and toilet flushing. In addition,
although the epidemiological link does not appear to have been made for the
mycobacteria, potentially PEM have been found in cooling tower water and, therefore,
cooling tower aerosols are also a potential point of exposure. Clearly, in these
instances, point-of-use filtration for the drinking-water faucet is insufficient and the
management options discussed in the previous sections become the critical control
points.
    The next steps in the RACCP approach include establishing critical limits, effective
monitoring, remediation responses, evaluation and documentation; however, we are
still not at a point where even critical limits and effective monitoring can be
established. For each environmental mycobacterial species, these critical limits will
differ. They will also be dramatically affected by the susceptibility of the exposed
population. Until research has allowed us to determine the appropriate ranges of
critical limits, and quantitative monitoring of the different mycobacterial species is
possible, critical control can only be based on rigorous cleaning, maintenance and
disinfection programs - and the absence of disease.
    MAP is a special case. The organism is known to be shed in the hundreds of
millions in lohne-infected cattle faeces (see Chapter 6). There is clearly a role for
water management in preventing run-off from cattle feedlots entering water sources.
There are also extensive RACCP related guidelines to minimize the risks of JD in
178                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

cattle. Although designed to minimize disease and its economic implications in animal
husbandry, these same guidelines should also be partially protective of water sources
and the hypothesized connection with human disease.


12.5          KEY RESEARCH ISSUES
      •       The public health response to MAC has been directed at disease management
              and not at prevention.
      •       Current epidemiological data fails to provide a convincing link between
              ingestion of water and mycobacterial disease.
      •       The public health response to MAP has been primarily in support of "herd
              management", and a water route of exposure is not currently considered, due in
              part to the inability to conclusively describe the causative agent of CD.
      •       If comprehensive epidemiological studies can provide firm evidence that
              pathogenic mycobacteria are transmitted by the water route and contribute
               significantly to both morbidity and mortality, then the public health response is
               clear: 1) for drinking-water: regulations, treatment and monitoring are
               necessary; 2) for recreational exposures: regulations, treatment where possible,
               monitoring and education; 3) for institutional exposures: guidelines/strict
               regulations, prevention, treatment, monitoring and education; 4) for industrial
               exposure: guidelines/strict regulations, prevention, treatment, monitoring and
              education.
          •   For each of the above, critical control points should be identified in order to
              apply the RACCP approach to water management.
          •   Each of the above becomes particularly important where susceptible
               populations are involved.
          •    If the link between MAP and CD is firmly established, this has enormous
               implications for agricultural practice, and in particular discharge of
               wastewaters. The trend in recent years towards confined animal feeding
               operations has made the issue of surface and groundwater pollution
               particularly acute.
References




Aberg, JA, Yajko, D.M. and Jacobson, M. (1998) Eradication of AIDS-related disseminated
     Mycobacterium avium complex infection after 12 months of antimycobacteria1lliempy combined
      willi highly active antiretrovirallliempy. J. Infect. Dis. 178, 1446----1449.
AIDS: The Status and Trends of the HIV/AIDS Epidemics in llie World. Provisional Reporl ofthe
     Barcelona MAP Symposium & the XIV Internationals AIDS Conference, 2002 Barcelona, Spain.
Aksamit, T. R (2002) Mycobacterium avium complex pulmomuy disease in patients willi pre-existing
      llU1g disease. Clin. Chest Med. 23, 643--653.
Albrechtsen, H.J. (2002) Microbiological investigations of rainwater and graywater collected for toilet
      flushing. Wat. Sci. Tech. 46, 311-316.
Allan, RN., Pease, P. and Ibbotson, J.P. (1986) Clustering ofCrohn's disease in a Cotswold village.
      Q.J. Med. 59,473--478.
Altare F., Jouanguy E., Lamhamedi S., Doffinger R, Fischer A, Casanova J.L. (1998) Mendelian
      susceptibility to mycobacterial infection in man. Curro Opin. Immunol. 10,413--417.
Alvarenga, L., Freitas, D., Hoiling-Lima, AL., Belfort, R Jr., Sampaio, J., Sousa, L., Yu, M. and
      Mannis, M. (2002) Infectious post-LASJK crystalline keratopailiy caused by nontuberculous
     mycobacteria. COmea21,426--429.
American Thoracic Society Statement. (1997) Diagnosis and treatment of disease caused by
     nontuberculous mycobacteria. Am. J. Respir. Cnt. Care Med. 156, SI--S25.

© 2004 World Health Organization. Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water: A Guide to Public Health
Consequences, Monitoring and Management. Edited by S. Pedley, J. Bartram, G. Rees, A. Dufour
and J. Cotruvo. ISBN: I 84339059 O. Published by IWA Publishing, London, UK.
180                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Amin, M., Gross, 1., Andrews, C and Furman, S. (1991) Pacemaker infection with Mycobacterium
     avium complex. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 14, 152-154.
Amofuh, GK, Bonsu, F., Tetteh, C, Okrah, 1., Asamoa, K, Asiedu, K and Addy 1. (2002) Buruli
     ulcer in Ghana: results of a national case search. Emer.g. Infect. Dis. 8, 167-170.
Amofuh, GK, Sagoe-Moses, C, Adjei-Acquah, C, Frimpong E.H. (1993) Epidemiology ofBuruli
     ulcer in Amansie West district, Ghana Trcmsactions ofthe Royal Society ofTropical Medicine &
     Hygiene. 87,644--645.
Andersen, AA (1958) New sampler for the collection, sizing, and enumeration of viable aiIbome
     particles. J. Bacteriol. 76, 471---484.
Antoine, 1., Coene, M. and Cocito,C (1988) Size and homology of the genomes ofleprosy-derived
     corynebacteria, Mycobacterium leprae, and other corynebacteria and mycobacteria J. Med.
     Microbiol. 27, 45-50.
Arbeit, RD., Slutsky, A, Barber, T.W., Maslow, J.N., Niemczyk, S., Falkinham, 10., O'Connor, G.T.
     and von Reyn, CF. (1993) Genetic diversity among strains of Mycobacterium avium causing
     monoclonal and polyclonal bacteremia in patients with AIDS. J. Infect. Dis. 167, 1384-1390.
Archuleta, RJ., Mullens, P. and Primm, T.P. (2002) The relationship of temperature to desiccation and
     starvation tolerance of the Mycobacterium avium complex. Arch. Microbiol. 178, 311-314.
Arend, SM., Janssen, R, Gosen, J.J., Waanders, H., de Boer, T., Ottenhoff; T.H. and van Dissel, IT.
     (200 1) Multifocal osteomyelitis caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria in patients with a genetic
     defect ofthe interferon-gamrnareceptor. Neth J. Med. 59, 1~15l.
Argueta, C, Yoder, S., Holtzman, AE., Aronson, T.w., Glover, N., Berlin, O.G., Ste1rna, G.N., Jr.,
     Froman, S. and Tomasek, P. (2000) Isolation and identification of nontuberculous mycobacteria
     from foods as possible exposure sources. J. Food Prot. 63, 930---933.
Annitage, E., Drummond, H.E., Wilson, D.C and Ghosh, S. (2001) Increasing incidence of both
     juvenile-onset Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis in Scotland. Eur. J. Gastroenterol. Hepatol.
     13,1439--1447.
Aronson T., Holtzman A, Glover N., Boian, M., Froman, S., Berlin, O.G., Hill, H., Ste1rna, G., Jr.
     (1999) Comparison of large restriction fragments of Mycobacterium avium isolates recovered
     from AIDS and non-AIDS patients and those of isolates from potable water. J. Clin. Micro. 37,
      1008-1012.
Arruda, S., Bornfin, G., Knights, R, Huima-Byron, T. and Riley, LW. (1993) Cloning of an M
     tuberculosis DNA ii"agment associated with en1:!y and survival inside cells. Science 261, 1454---
      1457.
ASHRAE: Minimizing the risk of legionellosis associated with building water systems. American
      Society ofheating, Refrigeratiou, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, 2000, Guideline 12-2000.
Asiedu, K and Etuaful, S. (1998) Socioeconomic implications ofBuruli ulcer in Ghana: a three-year
     review. American Journal ofTropical Medicine & Hygiene. 59, 1015-1022.
Asiedu, K, Scherpbier, Rand Raviglione, M. (Eds). Buruli ulcer: Mycobacterium ulcercms injection.
      Geneva, World Health Organizatiou, 2ffi). http://www.who.intlgtb-buruliIpublicationslindex.html.
      Accessed 9/112003 (dowuloadable PDF).
Astagneau, P., Desplaces, N., Vincent, v., Chicheportiche, v., Bothere~ A, Maugat, S., Lebascle, K,
      Leonard, P., Desenclos, I, Grosset, J., Ziza, 1. and Brucker, 0. (2001) Mycobacterium xenopi
      spinal infections after discovertebral surgery: investigation and screening of a large outbreak
     Lancet 358, 747-75l.
AstrofSky, KM., Schrenze~ M.D., Bullis, RA, Smolowi1z, RM. and Fox, 1.0. (2000) Diagnosis and
      management of atypical Mycobacterium spp. infections in established laboratory zebrafish
      (Brachydanio rerio) fucilities. Compo Med. SO, 666--672.
                                            References                                           181

AubIy, A, Chosidow, 0., Canmes, E., Robert, I and Cambau, E. (2002) Sixty-three cases of
      Mycobacterium marinum infection: clinical features, treatment, and antibiotic susceptibility of
      causative isolates. Arch. Intern. Med. 162, 17~1752.
Aubuchon, c., Hill, JJJr., and Graham, DR (1986) Atypical mycobacterial infection of soft tissue
      associated with use of a hot tub. A case report. J. Bone Joint Surg. Am. 68, 766-768.
Balian, S.c., Ribeiro, P., Vasconcellos, SA, Pinheiro, S.R, Ferreira Neto, IS., Guerra, JL., Xavier,
      IG, Morais, ZM., and Telles, MA (1997) Tuberculosis lymphadenitis in slaughtered swine
      from the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil: microscopic histopathology and demonstration of
      mycobacteria Rev. SaudePublica31, 391-397.
Band, ID., Ward, J.I., Fraser, DW., Peterson, NJ., Silcox, VA, Good, RC., Ostroy, P. R and
      Kennedy, I (1982) Peritonitis due to a Mycobacterium chelonei-like organism associated with
      intermittent chronic peritoneal dialysis. J. Inject. Dis. 145, 9--17.
Bange, F.C. and Bottger, EC. (2002) lmproved decontamination method for recovering mycobacteria
      from patients with cystic fibrosis. Eur. J. Clin. Microbiol. Inject. Dis. 21, 5~548.
Bannantine, IP., Baechler, E, Zhang, Q., Li, L., and Kapur, V. (2002) Genome scale comparison of
      Mycobaderium avium subsp. paratuberculosis with Mycobacterium avium subsp. avium reveals
      potential diagnostic sequences. J. Clin.Microbiol. 40, 1303-1310.
Barcat, D., Mercie, P., Constans, I Triassas, T., LeClouerec, G, Texier-Maugein, I and Conri, C.
      (1998) Disseminated Mycobaderium avium complex infection associated with bifocal synovitis
      in a patient with dermatomyositis. Clin. Irif. Dis. 26, 1004--1005.
Bardouniotis, E, Ceri, H. and Olson, M. E (2003) Biofilm formation and biocide susceptibility testing
      ofMycobacterium forluitum and Mycobacterium marinum. Curro Microbiol. 46, 2~32.
Batker, DJ. (1972) The distribution ofBuruli disease in Uganda Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 66,
      867-674.
Batker, DJ. (1973) Epidemiology of Mycobacterium ulcerans infection. Trans. R Soc. Trop. Med.
     Hyg. 67, 43--50.
Batker, I and Brown, M.R W. (1994) Trojan Horses ofthe microbial world: protozoa and the survival
      of bacterial pathogens in the environment. MlCfVbiol.I40, 1253-1259.
Bartralot, R, Pujol, RM., Garcia-Patos, V., Si~as, D., Martin-Casabona, N., Coli, P., Alomar, A and
      Castells, A (2000) Cutaneous infuctions due to nontuberculous mycobacteria: histopathological
      review of28 cases. Comparative study between lesions observed in immunosuppressed patients
      and normal hosts. J. Cutan. Pathol. 27, 124-129.
Bauer, I and Andersen, AB. (1999) Stability of insertion sequence IS 1245, amatker for differentiation
      ofMycobacterium avium strains. J. Clin. Microbiol. 37,442-444.
Bauerfeind, R, Benazzi, S., Weiss, R, Schliesser, T., Willems, H. and Baljer,G (1996) Molecular
      characterization of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis isolates from sheep, goats, and cattle by
      hybridization with a DNA probe to insertion element IS900. J. Clin. Microbiol. 34 , 1617-1621.
Bean, N. H., Martin, S. M. and Bradford, H., Jr. (1992). PHUS: an electronic system for reporting
      public health data from remote sites. Am J. Public Health 82, 1273--1276.
Beard, P.M., Daniels, M.I, Henderson, D., Pirie, A, Rudge, K, Buxton, D., Rhind, S., Greig, A,
      Hutchings, M.R, McKendrick, I., Stevenson, K and Sharp JM. (2001) Paratuberculosis infection
      ofnonruminant wildlife in Scotland J. Clin. Microbiol.39, 1517-1521.
Beard, P.M., Stevenson, K, Pirie, A, Rudge, K, Buxton, D., Rhind, S.M., Sinclair, M.c., Wildblood,
      LA, Jones, D.G. and Sharp, JM. (200la) Experimental paratuberculosis in calves following
      inoculation with a rabbit isolate of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis.
     J.Clin.Microbiol. 39, 3080-3084.
Behr, MA, Wilson, MA, Gill, WP., Salamon, H., Schoo1nik, GK, Rane, S., and Small, P.M. (1999)
      Comparative genomics of BCG vaccines by whole-genome DNA microarray. Science 284,
      1520-1523.
182                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Belisle, IT. and Brennan, P .1. (1994) Molecular basis of colony morphology in Mycobacterium avium.
      Res.lvficrobioI.145,237-242.
Belisle, IT., McNeil, MR, ChatteJjee, D., Inarnine, J.M. and Brennan, P.1. (1993) Expression of the
      core lipopeptide of the glycolipid surface antigens in rough mutants of Mycobacterium avium. J
      Biol Chern. 268, 1051~1O516.
Belisle, IT., Pascopella, L., Inarnine, 1M., Brennan, P.1. and Jacobs, WR, Jr. (1991) Isolation and
      expression of a gene cluster responsible for biosynthesis of the glycopeptidolipid antigens of
      Mycobacterium avium. J Bacterid 173,6991-6997.
Bell, K, LeChevallier, MW., Abbaszadegan, M., Amy, G.L., Sinha, S., Benjamin, M. and Ibrahim.
      EA Enhanced and Optimized Coagulation for Particulate and Microbial Removal. AWWA
      Research Foundation and the American Water Worl<s Association, Denver, Colo, 2002.
Bellinger, DA and Bullock, B.C (1988) Cutaneous Mycobacterium avium infection in a cynomolgus
      monkey. Lab. Anim Sci. 38, 85--86.
Bender, B.L. and Yunis, E.1. (1980) Disseminated nongranulomatous Mycobacterium avium
      osteomyelitis. Hum Pathol11, 476---478.
Benjamin, D. (1987) Granulomatous lymphadenitis in children. Arch. Pathol Lab. Med. 111, 75~
      753.
Bennett, C, Vardiman, 1 and Golomb, H. (1986) Disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection in
      patients with hairy cell leukemia Am. J Med. 80, 891--.g96.
Bennett, S.N., Peterson, D.E, Johnson, DR, Hall, W.N., Robinson-Dunn, B., and Dietrich, S. (1994)
      Bronchoscopy-associated Mycobacterium xenopi pseudoinfections. Am J Respir. Crit. Care
      Med. 150, 245-250.
Benson, CA, Ellner, J.J. (1993) Mycobacterium avium complex and AIDS: advances in theory and
      practice. Clin Infect Dis. 17,7-20.
Benson, CA, Williams, P.L. and Cohn, D.L. (2000) Clarithromycin or rifubutin alone or in
      combination furprirnary prophylaxis of Mycobacterium avium complex disease in patients with
      AIDS: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J Infect. Dis. 181, 1289----1297.
Bercovier, H, Kafri, O. and Sela, S. (1986) Mycobacteria possess a surprisingly small munber of
      ribosomal RNA genes in relation to the size of their genome. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 136,
      1136-1141.
Bermudez, L.E, Wu, M., Miltner, E, and Interlied, CB. (1999) Isolation of two subpopulations of
      Mycobacterium avium within human macrophages. FEMS. Microbiol Lett. 178, 19----26.
Bermudez, L.E., Young, L.S. and EnkeL H (1991) Interaction ofMycobacterium avium complex with
      human macrophages: roles of membrane receptors and serum proteins. Infect. Immun. 59,
      1697-1702.
Bernstein, CN., Blanchard, IF., Rawsthome, P. and Wajda, A (1999) Epidemiology of Crohn's
      disease and ulcerative colitis in a Central Canadian Province: A population-based study. Am. J
      Epidemiol.149,916-24.
Best, M., Sattar, SA, Springthorpe, V.S. and Kennedy, M.E. (1990) Efficacies of selected disinfectants
      against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. J Clin Microbiol. 28, 2234-2239.
Beth Harris, N. and Barletta, RG. (200 1) Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in Veterinary
      Medicine. Clin Microbiol REvs. 14, 489----512.
Beyetbach, M., Rehm, T., Kreienbrock, L. and Gerlach, G.F. (2001) Eradication of paratuberculosis in
      dairy herds: determination of the initial herd prevalence and modelling of prevalence
      development Dtsch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 108, 291-296.
Bjomsson, S. (1989) Inflammatory bowel disease in Iceland during a 30 year period, 1950-1979.
      Scand. J Gastroenterol 24 (suppl170), 47~9.
                                            References                                            183

Bjomsson, S. and Johannsson, J.H. (2000) Inflammatory bowel disease in Iceland, 1990-1994: a
     prospective, nationwide, epidemiological study. Eur. J. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 12,31-38.
Bjomsson, S., Johannsson, J. H.and Oddsson E (1998) Inflammatory bowel disease in Iceland, 1980-
     89. Scand J. Gastroenterol. 33,71-77.
Black, G.P', Dockrell, H.M., Crampin, AC., Floyd, S., Weir, RE., Bliss, L., Sicl1ali, L., Mwaungulu,
     L., Kanyongoloka, H., Ngwira, B., Wamdorff; DK, and Fine, P.E. (2001) Patterns and
     implications of naturally acquired irmmme responses to enviromnental and tuberculous
     mycobacterial antigens in northem Malawi. J. Infect. Dis. 184, 322-329.
Blanchard, D.C. and Hoffinan, EJ. (1978) Control ofjet drop dynamics by organic matter in seawater.
     J. Geopfo;s. Rei". 83, 6187-6191.
Blanchard, D.C. and Syzdek, L.D. (1970) Mechanism for the water-to-air transfer and concentration of
     bacteria. Science 170, 626-628.
Blanchard, D.C. and Syzdek, L.D. (1972) Concentration of bacteria in jet drops from bursting bubbles.
     J. Geopfo;s. Rei". 77, 5087-5099.
Blanchard, D.C. and Syzdek, L.D. (1978) Seven problems in bubble and jet drop researches. Limnol
     Oceanogr. 23, 389--400.
Blanchard, D.C. and Syzdek, LD. (1982) Water-to-air transfer and enrichment of bacteria in drops
     from bursting bubbles. Appl. Environ Microbiol. 43,1001-1005.
Blanchard, D.C., Syzdek, L.D. and Weber, M.E (1981) Bubble scavenging of bacteria in freshwater
     quickly produces bacterial enrichment in airlxJme jet drops. Limnol. Oceanogr. 26, 961-964.
Blanchard, JF., Bernstein, C.N., Wajda, A and Rawsthome, P. (2001) Small-area variations and
     sociodemographic correlates for the incidence of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Am J.
     Epidemioll54, 32~335.
Blumenthal, D.R, Zucker, J.R, and Hawkins, c.c. (1990) lvIycobacterium avium complex-induced
     septic arthritis and osteomyelitis in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
     Arthritis Rheum. 33, 757-758.
Boddinghaus, B., RogalL T., Flohr, T., Blocker, H., and Bottger, EC. (1990a) Detection and
     identification ofmycobacteria by amplification of rRNA J. Clin. MICrObial. 28, 1751-1759.
Boddinghaus, B., Wolters, J., Heikens, w., and Bottger, EC. (1990) Phylogenetic analysis and
     identification of different semvars of lvIycobacterium introcellulare at the molecular level. FEMS
     Microbiol. Lett. 58, 197-203.
Bodmer, T., Miltner, E, and Bermudez, L.E (2000) lvIycobacterium avium resists exposure to the
     acidic conditions of the stomach. FEMS MlCrobiol Lett. 182,45-49.
Boelaert, F., Walravens, K, Biront, P., Vermeersch, J.P., Berkvens, D. and Godfroid, J. (2000)
     Prevalence of paratuberculosis (Johne's disease) in the Belgian cattle population. Vet. MICrObial.
     77,269--281.
Bolan, G., Reingold, A L., Carson, L. A, Silcox, V. A, Woodley, C. L., Hayes, P. S., Hightower, A
     w., McFarland, L., Brown, J. W., and Petersen, N. J. (1985) Infections with A1ycobacterium
     chelonei in patients receiving dialysis and using processed hemodialyzers. J. If!foct. Dis. 152,
      1013-1019.
Bollo, E., Guarda, F., Capuccl1io, M.T., and Galietti, P. (1998) Direct detection of A1ycobacterium
     tuberculosis complex and M avium complex in tissue specimens from cattle through
     identification of specific rRNA sequences. Zentralbl. Veterinarmed. [BJ 45, 395-400.
Bonen, DK and Cho, J.H. (2003) The genetics of inflammatory bowel disease. Gastroenterol. 124,
     521-536.
Bomriere, P., Wallaert, B., Cortot, A, Marchandise, x., Riou, Y., Tonnel, AB., Colombel, JF., Voisin,
     C. and Paris, J.c. (1986) Latent pulmonary involvement in Cmhn's disease: biological, fimctiona1,
     bmnchoalveolar lavage and scintigraphic studies. Gut 27,919--925.
184                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Borody, TJ., Leis, S., Warren, E.F., Surace, R (2002) Treatment of severe Crohn's disease using
     antimycobacterial triple therapy-approaching a cure? Digest. Liver Dis. 34,29---38.
Bouza, E., Burillo, A & Munoz, P. (2002) Catheter-related infections: diagnosis and intravascular
     treatment Clin. MICrobiol. Infect 8,265-274.
Bowenkamp, KE., Frasca, S., Jr., Draghi, A II, Tsongalis, GJ., Koetting, c., Hinckley, L., DeGuise,
      S., Montali, RI, Goertz, c.E., St Aubin, DJ. and Dunn, IL. (2001) Mycobacterium marinum
     dermatitis and panniculitis with chronic pleuritis in a captive white whale (DelphinaptentS leucas)
     with aortic rupture. J. Vet. Diagn. Invest. 13, 524-530.
Boxerbaum, B. (1980) Isolation of rapidly growing mycobacteria in patients with cystic fibrosis. J.
     Pediatr. 96,689---691.
Brant, SR, Fu, Y., Fields, C.T., Baltazar, R, Ravenhill, G., Pickles, MR, Rohal, P.M., Mann, J.,
     Kirschner, B.S., Jabs, E.w., Bayless, T.M., Hanauer, S.B. and Cho, IH. (1998) American
     furnilies with Crohn's disease have strong evidence for linkage to chromosome 16 but not
     chromosome 12. Gastroenterol. 115, 1056--1061.
Brant, SR, Panhuysen, C.l, Nicolae, D., Reddy, D.M., Bonen, DK, Kara\iukas, R, Zhang, L.,
     Swanson, E., Datta, L.w., Moran, T., Ravenhill, G., Duerr, RH., Achkar, IP., Karban, AS. and
     Cho, J.H. (2003) MDRl Ala893 polymorphism is associated with inflammatory bowel disease.
     Am. J. Hum. Genet. 73, 1282-1292.
Brerman, PJ. and Nikaido, H. (1995) The envelope of mycobacteria. Ann. Rev. Biochem. 64, 29---63.
Bridges, MJ. and McGarry, F. (2002) Two cases of Mycobacterium avium septic arfuritis. Ann.
     Rheum. Dis. 61,186--187.
Brooks, R w., George, KL., Parker, B.C. and Falkinham, 10., ill (1984) Recovery and smvival of
     nontuberculous mycobacteria under various growth and decontamination conditions. Can. J.
     Microbiol. 30, 1112-1117.
Brooks, R W., Parker, B.c. and Falkinham, 10., ill (1984a) Epidemiology of nontuberculous
     mycobacteria V. Numbers in eastern United States soils and correlation with soil characteristics.
     Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 130, 630-633.
Brosch, R, Gordon, S.Y., Manniesse, M., Brodin, P., Buchrieser, c., Eiglmeier, K, Gamier, T.,
     Gutierrez, c., Hewinson, G., Kremer, K, Parsons, L.M., Pym, AS., Samper, S., van Soolingen,
     D. and Cole, S.T. (2002) A new evolutionary scenario for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis
     complex. Proc. Nat!. Acad Sci. USA 99, 3684--3689.
Brosch, R, Gordon, S.Y., Pym, A, Eiglmeier, K, Gamier, T., and Cole, S.T. (2000) Comparative
      genomics of the mycobacteria Int. J. Med. Microbio!. 290, 143-152.
Brosch, R, Pym, AS., Gordon, S.Y., and Cole, S.T. (2001) The evolution of mycobacterial
     pathogenicity: clues from comparative genomics. Trends MICrobiol. 9,452-458.
Brown, J.M. and McNeil, M.M. Actinomycetes. In Murray, PR, ed. Manual of Clinical
      Microbiology. ASM Press, Washington, 2003: 2322
Bryan, JJ. Hazard analysis and critical control points and their application to the drinking water
     treatment process. In: Proceedings of the AWWA WQTC Denver, CO, American Water Works
     Association, 1993.
Buddle, BM. and Young, LJ. (2000) Imrmmobiology of mycobacterial infections in marsupials. Dev.
      Comp. Immunol. 24, 517-529.
Buergelt, CD., Hall, c., McEntee, K, and Duncan, lR (1978) Pathological Evaluation of
     Paratuberculosis in Naturally Infected Cattle. Vet Patha!. 15, 196--207.
Buergelt, CD., Layton, AW., Ginn, P.E., Taylor, M., King, J.M., Habecker, P.L., Mauldin, E.,
     Whitlock, R, Rossiter, C. and Collins, M. T. (2000) The pathology of spontaneous
     paratuberculosis in the North American Bison (Bison bison). Vet.Patho!. 37, 428-438.
                                             References                                             185

Bull, T.J., Hennon-Taylor, J., Pavlik, I., El-Zaatari, F., and Tizard M. (2000) Characterization ofIS900
      loci in Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis and development of multiplex PCR typing.
      Microbiology 146 2185-2197.
Bull, T.J., Martin, H, Sumar, N., Tizard, M., and Herrnon-Taylor, J. (2000a) Further studies on the GS
      element: A novel mycobacterial Insertion Sequence (lSI612), inserted into an acetylase gene
      (mpa) in Mycobacterium avium subsp. silvaticum but not in Mycobacterium avium subsp.
      paratuberculosis. Vet. Microbiol. 77,453--463.
Bull, T.J., McKinn, E.J., Sidi-Boumedine, K, SkulL A, Durkin, D., Neild, P., Rhodes, 0., Pickup, R,
      and Herman-Taylor, J. (2003). Detection and verification of Mycobacterium avium subspecies
      paratuberculosis in fresh ileocolonic mucosal biopsies from people with and without Crohn's
      Disease..!. Clin. Microbial. 41,2915--2923.
Bull, TJ., Sidi-Boumedine, K, McMinn, E.J., Stevenson, K, Pickup, R and Hennon-Taylor, J.
      (2003a) Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units (MIRV) differentiate Mycobacterium avium
      subspecies paratuberculosis from other sepcies of the Afycobacterium avium complex. Mol. Cell
      Probes 17, 157-164
Bullington, RH, Jr., Lanier, J.D. and Font, RL. (1992) Nontuberculous mycobacterial keratitis. Report
      oftwo cases and review of the literature. Arch. Ophthalmol. 110, 51 ~524.
Buntine J and Crofts K (Eds) (2002) Management of Mycobacterium ulcerans disease Published by
      WHO.         htlp:llwww.who.in1lgtb-burulilpublicationslindex.html.       Accessed       111112003
      (downloadable PDF).
Bush, T.G (2002) Enteric glial cells. An upstream target for induction of necrotizing entercolitis and
      Crohn's disease? Bioes"s0's 24, 130-140.
Cabarrocas, J., Savidge, T.G, and Liblau, RS. (2003) Role of enteric glial cells in inflammatory bowel
      disease. GilA 41, 81-93.
Calder, C.J., Lacy, D., Raafut, F., Weller, P.H and Booth, r.W (1993) Crohn's disease with puhnonary
      involvement in a 3 year old boy. Gut 34, 163~1638.
Camargo, D., Saad, G, Ruiz, F., Ramirez, M.E., Lineros, M., Rodriguez, 0., Navarro, E., Pulido, B.
      and Orozco, L.G (1996) Iatrogenic outbreak of M chelonae skin abscesses. Epidemial. I'?foct.
      117,113-119.
Camper, A Factors Limiting MICrobial Growth in Distribution Systems: Laboratory and Pilot-Scale
      Etperiments, Denver, American Water Works Association Research Foundation, 1996: 1-121.
Cangelosi, GA, Palenno, GO. and Bennudez, L.E. (2001) Phenotypic consequences of red-white
      colony type variation in Mycobacterium avium. Microbiol. 147, 527-533.
Cangelosi, GA, Palenno, GO., Laurent, J.P., Hamlin, AM. and Brabant, WH (1999) Colony
      motphotypes on Congo red agar segregate along species and drug susceptibility lines in the
      Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex. Microbial. 145, 1317-1324.
Catpenter, J.L., Myers, AM., Conner, M.W, Schelling, S.H, Kennedy, FA and Reimann, KA
      (1988) Tuberculosis in five basset hounds. .!. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 192, 1563---1568.
Carson, LA, Bland, LA, Cusick, L.B., Favero, M.S., Bolan, GA, Reingold, AL. and Good, RG
      (1988) Prevalence of nontuberculous mycobacteria in water supplies of hemodialysis centers.
      Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54, 3122-3125.
Carson, LA, Cusick, L.B., Bland, LA and Favero, M.S. (l988a). Efficacy of chemical dosing
      methods for isolating nontuberculous mycobacteria from water supplies of dialysis centers. Appl.
      Environ. Microbial. 54, 175~1760.
Carson, LA, Petersen, N.J. Favero, M.S. and Aguero S.M. (1978) Growth characteristics of atypical
      mycobacteria in water and their comparative resistance to disinfectants. Appl. Environ.
      Microbiol. 36, 83~.
Casanova, J-L. and Ochs, HD. (1999) Interferon-gamma receptor deficiency: an expanding clinical
      phenotype?.!. Pediatr. 135,543-545.
186                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Cavanaugh, 1 (2001) International collaboration provides convincing linkage replication in complex
     disease through analysis ofa large pooled data set Crohn disease and chromosome 16. Am. J.
     Hum. Genet. 68, 1165-1171.
Cavanaugh, lA, Callen, D.F., Wilson, S.R, Stanford, PM., Sraml, M.E., Gorska, M., Crawford, 1,
     Whitmore, SA, Shlegel, C, Foote, S., Kohonen-Corish, M. and Pavli, P. (1998) Analysis of
     Australian Crohn's disease pedigrees refines the localization for susceptibilty to inflammatory
     bowel disease on chromosome 16. Ann Hum. Genet. 62,291-298.
CDC (1991) Nosocomial infection and pseudoinfection from contaminated endoscopes and
     bronchoscopes--Wisconsin and Missouri. Jama 266, 2197-2198.
CDC Drqfi Guideline for Environmental Infection Control in Healthcare Facilities, Healthcare
     Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPA C). Atlanta, Center for Disease Control
     and Prevention, 2001
CDC (2002) Guidelines for preventing opportunistic infections among HIV-infected persons - 2002
     recommendations of the U. S. Public Health Service and the Infectious Diseases Society of
     America M!\-fflR, 51 (RR-8), I~ II.
CDC (2002a) Exophiala Infection from Contaminated Injectable Steroids Prepared by a Compounding
     Pharmacy. M!\-fflR 51 (49), 1109.
Cebolla, J., Lopez Zaborras, J., Sopena, F., Nerin, 1M., Gomollon, F. and y Sainz, R (1991) Aspectos
     epidemiologicos de la enfennedad de Crohn en Zaragoza. Rev. Esp. En! Digest. 79, 186--189.
Cetinkaya, B., Egan, K, Harbour, DA and Morgan, KL. (1996) An abattoir-based study of the
     prevalence of subclinical Johne's disease in adult cattle in south west England. Epidemiol. Infoct.
     116,373-379.
Chalennskulrat, w., Gilbey, IG. and Donohue, IF. (2002). Nontuberculous mycobacteria in women,
     young and old. Clin. Chest Med. 23, 675-686.
Chamberlin, w., Graham, D.Y., Hulten, K, El-Zimaity, H.M.T., Schwartz, M.R, Naser, S., Shafran, I.
     and EI-Zaatari, FAK (2001) Review article: Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis as
     one cause of Crohn's disease. Aliment. Pharmacol. Ther. 15, 337-346.
Chan, E.D., Kong, P.M., Fennelly, K, Dwyer, AP. and Iseman, M.D. (2001) Vertebral osteomyelitis
     due to infection with nontuberculous Mycobacterimn species after blunt tramna to the back: 3
     examples of the principle oflocus minoris resistentiae. Clin. Infect. Dis. 32, 1506-1510.
Chandra, N.S., Torres, M.F., Winthrop, KL., Bruckner, DA, Heidemann, D.G., Calvet, HM.,
     Yakrus, M., Mondino, BJ. and Holland, G.N. (2001) Cluster of Mycobacterium chelonae
     keratitis cases following laser in-situ keratomileusis. Am. J. Ophthalmol. 132, 819----830.
Chang, CT., Wang, L.Y., Liao, CY. and Huang, S.P. (2002). Identification of nontuberculous
     mycobacteria existing in tap water by PCR-restriction fragment length polymotphism Appl.
     Environ. Microbial. 68, 3159--3161.
Chesney, PJ. (2002) Nontuberculous mycobacteria Pediatr. Rev. 23, 3~309.
Chetchotisakd, P., Mootsikapun, P., Anunnatsiri, S., Jirarattanapochai, K, Choonhakam, C,
     Chaiprasert, A, Ubol, P.N., Wheat, LJ. and Davis, T.E. (2000). Disseminated infection due to
     rapidly growing mycobacteria in immunocompetent hosts presenting with chronic
     lymphadenopathy: a previously unrecognized clinical entity. Clin. Infect. Dis. 30,29--34.
Chin, D.P., Reingold, AL., Stone, E.N., Vittinghott: E., Horsburgh, CR, Jr., Simon, EM., Yajko,
     D.M., Hadley, WK, Ostrott: S.M. and Hopewell, P.C (1994) The impact of Mycobacterium
     avium complex bacteremia and its treatment on survival of AIDS patients - a prospective study. J.
     Infoct Dis. 170, 578-584.
Chiodini, Rl (1989) Crohn's disease and the Mycobacterioses: a review and comparison of two
     disease entities. Clin. MICrobial.Revs. 2, ~117.
                                            References                                             187

Chiodini, RI, and Hermon-Taylor, I (1993) The thennal resistance of Mycobacterium
      paratuberculosis in raw milk under conditions simulating pasteurization. J. Vet. Diagn. Invest. 5,
      629-63l.
Chiodini, RI, Thayer, R W., and Coutu, IA Presence of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis antibodies
      in animal health care workers. In: Chiodini RI, Hines M.E., and Collins M.T., 008. Proceedings
      of the Fifth International Colloquium on Paratuberculosis. International Association for
      Paratuberculosis, RehobothMA, 1996: 324-328.
Chiodini, RI, van Knmingen, H.I, Merkal, RS., Thayer, W.R, and Coutu, IA (1984) Characteristics
      of an unclassified Mycobacterirnn species isolated from patients with Crohn's disease.
      J.Oin.Microbiol. 20, 96&---97l.
Chiodini, RJ., van Knmingen, HJ., Thayer, WR, and Coutu, IA (1986) Spheroplastic phase of
      mycobacteria isolated from patients with Crohn's disease. J.Clin.Microbiol. 24,357-363.
Chiodini, RJ., van Kruiningen, HJ., Thayer, WR, Merkal, RS., and Coutu, IA (1984a) Possible
      role ofmycobacteria in inflammatory bowel disease. Dig. Dis. Sci. 29, 1073-1079.
Chobot, S., Malis, I, Sebakova, H., Pelikan, M., Zatloukal, 0., Palicka, P., and Kocurova, D. (1997)
      Endemic incidence of infections caused by Mycobacterium kansasii in the Karvina district in
       1968-1995 (analysis of epidemiological data--review). Cent. Eur. J. Public Health 5, 164-173.
Choonhakam, C, Chetchotisakd, P., Jirarattanapochai, K and Mootsikapun, P. (1998) Sweet's
       syndrome associated with non-tuberculous mycobacterial in:tection: a report of five cases. Br. J.
      Dermatol. 139, 107-110.
Cirillo, J.D., Falkow, S., Tompkins, L.S., and Bermudez, L.E. (1997) Interaction of Mycobacterium
      avium with environmental amoebae enhances virulence. Irifi!ct. Immun. 65,3759-3767.
Clark, I, Magee, I, and Cant, A (1994) Non-tuberculous mycobacterial lymphadenopathy. Arch. Dis.
       Child. 72, 165-166.
Clark-Curtiss, JE. (1998) Identification of virulence determinants in pathogenic mycobacteria Current
       Top. Microbiol. Immunol. 225, 57-79.
Clarke, CJ. (1997) The Pathology and Pathogenesis of Paratuberculosis in Rrnninants and Other
       Species.J. Compo Path.116,217-26l.
Clarke, S.c. (2002) Nucleotide sequence-based typing of bacteria and the impact of automation.
      Bioessays 24, 85~62.
Cocito, C, Gilot, P., Coene, M., De Kesel, M., Poupart, P. and Vannuffel, P. (1994) Paratuberculosis.
       Clin. Microbiol. Revs. 7,328-345.
Cockle, PJ., Gordon, S.Y., Lalvani, A, Buddie, B.M., Hewinson, RG., and Vordermeier, HM. (2002)
       Identification of novel Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens with potential as diagnostic reagents
       or subunit vaccine candidates by comparative genomics. Infect. Immun. 70, 6996--7003.
Cohavy, 0., Harth, G., Horwitz, M., Eggena, M., Landers, C, Sutton, C, Targan, S. R, and Braun, I
       (1999) Identification of a novel histone HI homologue (HupB) as an antigenic target ofpANCA
      monoclonal antibody and serrnn immunoglobulin A from patients with Crohn's disease. Infect.
      Immun. 67, 6510----6517.
Cole, S.T. (2002a) Comparative and functional genomics of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex.
      Microbiology 148, 2919-2928.
Cole, S.T. (2002b) Comparative mycobacterial genomics as a tool for drug target and antigen
      discovery. Eur. Respir. J. Suppl36, 78~6s.
Cole, S.T., Brosch, R, Parkhill, I, Garnier, T., Chrurcher, C, Hanis, D., Gordon, SV., Eiglmeier, K,
       Gas, S., Barry CE., III, Tekaia, F., Badcock, K, Basham, D., Brown, D., Chillingworth, T.,
       Counor, R, Davies, R, Devlin, K, Feltwell, T., Gentles, S., Hamlin, N., Holroyd, S., Hornsby,
       T., Jagels, K, Krogh, A, Mclean, I, Moule, S., MUIphy, L., Oliver, K, Osborn, J., Quail, MA.,
       Rajandream, M-A, Rogers, I, Rutter, S., Seeger, K, Skelton, I, Squares, R, Squares, S., Sulston,
188                           Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

      IE., Taylor, K, Whitehead, S. and Barrel~ B.G. (1998) Deciphering the biology of
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis from the complete genome sequence. Nature 393,537-544.
Collert, S., Petrini, B., and Wickman, K (1983) Osteomyelitis caused by Mycobacterium avium. Acta
      Orthop. Scand. 54,449--451.
Collins, CR, Grange, 1M, Noble, W.C and Yates, MD. (1985) Mycobacterium marinum infections
      inman.) Hyg. (Land) 94,135--149.
Collins, CR, Grange, 1M. and Yates, M.D. (1984) Mycobacteria in water. ) Appl. Bacteriol. 57,
      193-211.
Collins, DM., Gabric, DM. and de Lisle, G.w. (1990) Identification of two groups ofMycobacterirun
      paratuberculosis strains by restriction endonuclease analysis and DNA hybridization. J .Clin.
      Microbiol.28,1591-15%.
Collins, F M. (1971) Relative suscep1:lbility of acid fust and non-acid fust bacteria to ultraviolet light
      Appl. Microbial. 21,411--413.
Collins, MT. (2002) Interpretation of a commercial bovine paratuberculosis enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay by using likelihood ratios. Clin. Diag. Lab. Im/1UflWl. 9,1367-1371.
Collins, M.T., De Zoete, M and Cavaignac, S.M (2002) Mycobacterium avium subsp
      paratuberculosis. strains from cattle and sheep can be distinguished by a PCR test based on a
      novel DNA sequence difference.) Clin. Microbiol. 40, 4760--4762.
Collins, MT., Lisby, G., Moser, C, Chicks, D., Christensen, S., Reichelderfer, M, Hoiby, N., Hanus,
      B.A, Thomsen, 0.0., Skibsted, U. and Binder, V. (2000) Results of multiple diagnostic tests for
      Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in patients with inflammatory bowel disease and
      in controls.) Clin. Microbial. 38, 4373--4381.
Collins, MT., Sockett, D.C, Goodger, W.I, Conrad, T.A, Thomas, CB., and Carr, DJ. (1994) Herd
      prevalence and geographic distnbution of; and risk fuctors for, bovine paratuberculosis in
      Wisconsin.) Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 204, 636-641.
Colville, A (1993) Retrospective review of culture-posotive mycobacterial lymphadenitis cases in
      children in Nottingham, 1979-1990. Eur. J. Clin. Micro. Infect Dis. 12, 192-195.
Colwell, R .R (1996) Global Climate and Infectious Disease: The Cholera Paradigm. Science 274,
      2025--2031.
Combe, C (1813) A singular case of stricture and thickening of the ileum. Med. Transactions. 4, 16---
      21.
Conville, P.S., Keiser, IF., and Witebsky, F.G. (1989) Mycobacteremia caused by simultaneous
      infection with Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare detected by analysis of a
      BACTEC 13A bottle with the Gen-Probe kit Diogn. Microbial. Infect. Dis. 12,217-219.
Comer, L.A, Barrett, RH., Lepper, A w., Lewis, V., and Pearson, CW. (1981) A stUVey of
      mycobacteriosis of feral figs in the Northern Territory. Aust. Vet.) 57, 537-542.
Comet, A, Savidge T.C, Cabarrocas, 1, Deng, w.L., Colombel, IF., Lassmann, R, Desreumaux, P.,
      Liblau RS. (2001) Enterocolitis induced by autoimnnme targeting of enteric glial cells: a possible
      mechanism in Crobn's disease? Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 13306---13311.
Corti, S. and Stephan, R (2002) Detection of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculsois
      specific IS900 insertion sequences in bulk-tank milk samples obtained from different regions
      throughout Switzerland. BMC Microbial. 2, 15.
Cosgrove, M, AI-Aria, RF. and Jenkins, RR (19%) The epidemiology of paediatric inflannnatory
      bowel disease. Archives Dis. Childhood 74,460--461.
Cousins, D.Y., Williams, S.N., Hope, A and Eamens, GJ. (2000) DNA fingerprinting of Australian
      isolates of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis using IS900 RFlP. Aust. Vet.) 78,
      184-190.
                                             References                                            189

Covert, T.C, Rodgers, MR, Reyes, AL. and Stehna, GN., Jr. (1999) Occurrence of nontuberculous
      mycobacteria in environmental samples. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65, 2492-24%.
Craun, GF. and Calderon, RL. (2001) Waterborne Disease Outbreaks Caused by Distnbution System
      Deficiencies. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 93, 64-75.
Crohn, B.B., Ginzburg, L. and Oppenheimer, G.D. (1932) Regional ileitis. JA.MA. 99, 1323-1329.
Cronan, IE. and LaPorte, D. Tricarboxylic acid cycle and glyoxalate bypass. In: Neidhardt, F.C,
      Curtiss, R, III, Ingraham, IL., Lin, E.E.C, Low, KB., Magasanik, B., Reznikoff, W.S., Riley,
      M., Schaechter, M and Umbarger, HE. eds. Escherichia coli and Salmonella: cellular and
      molecular biology, 2nd ed. Washington, American Society for Microbiology Press, 19%: 206-
      216.
Cross, ML., Labes, RE., and Mackintosh, CG. (2000) Oral infection of ferrets with virulent
      Mycobacterium bovis or Mycobacterium avium: susceptibility, pathogenesis and immune
      response.J. CompPathol.123, 15-21.
Croucher, P.I, Mascheretti, S., Hampe, 1, Huse, K, Frenzel, H, Stoll, M, Lu, T., Nikolaus, S., Yang,
      SK, Krawczak, M., Kim, W.H and Schreiber, S. (2003) Haplotype s1ructure and association to
      Crohn's disease of CARD15 mutations in two ethnically divergent populations. Eur. J. Hum.
      Genet.H,6--16.
Crowle, AI, Dahl, R, Ross, E., and May, M.H (1991) Evidence that vesicles containing living,
      virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium avium in cultured human macrophages
      are not acidic.lnfect. Immun. 59,1823-1831.
G.nnberworth, Y.L. and Robinson, AC (1995). Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare cervical
      lymphadenitis in siblings: a case report and review. J. Laryngol 0101. 109, 70-71.
Cutay, AM, Horowitz, HW., Pooley, R W., Van Horn, K & Wonnser, G.P. (1998). Infection of
      epicardial pacemaker wires due to Mycobacterium abscessus. Clin. lrifect. Dis. 26, 520-521.
Cuthbert, AP., Fisher, SA, Mirza, MM, King, K, Hampe, 1, Croucher, P.J.P., Mascheretti, S.,
      Sanderson, 1, FOlbes, A, Mansfield, 1, Schreiber, S., Lewis, CM and Mathew, Co. (2002) The
      contribution of NOD2 gene mutations to the risk and site of disease in inflammatory bowel
      disease. Gastroenterol. 122,867-874.
da Silva Rocha, A, Wemeck Barreto, AM., Dias Campos, CE., Villas-Boas da Silva, M, Fonseca, L.,
      Saad, MH, Degrave, W.M and SuftYs, P.N. (2002). Novel allelic variants of Mycobacteria
      isolated in Brazil as detennined by PCR-restriction enzyme analysis ofhsp65. J. Clin. MicrobiDl.
      40,4191--4196.
Dailloux M, Hartemann P, Beurey 1 (1980) Study on the relationship between isolation of
      mycobacteria and classical microbiological and chemical indicators of water quality in swimming
      pools. Zentralbl Bakteriol. MikrobiDl. Hyg. [BJ 171, 473--486.
Dailloux, M, Laurain, C, Weber, M and Hartemann, PH. (1999) Water and nontuberculous
      mycobacteria Wat. Res. 33, 2219-2228.
Dalziel, TK (1913) Chronic Interstitial Enteritis. B.MJ. 1068-1070.
Daniels, MI, Hutchings, MR and Greig, A (2001) The grazing response of cattle to pasture
      contaminated with rabbit faeces and the implications for the transmission ofparatuberculosis. Vet.
      J.161,306--313.
Dargatz, DA, Bynun, BA, Hennager, S.G, Barber, LK, Kopral, CA, Wagner, BA and Wells, S.J.
      (2001) Prevalence of antibodies against Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis among
      beef cow-calfherds. J. Am. Vet. Med 219,497-501.
David, HL. (1973) Response of mycobacteria to ultraviolet light Amer. Rev. Respir. Dis. 108, 1175-
      1185.
David, H.L., Jones, W.D. and Newman, CM. (1971) Ultraviolet light and photreactivation in
      mycobacteria lrifect. Immun. 4,318-319.
190                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Dawson, DJ. (1990) Infection with Mycobacterium avium complex in Australian patients with AIDS.
     Med. J. Aust. 153,466--468.
Dawson, DJ., Annstrong, J.G., and Blacklock, Z.M (1982). Mycobacterial cross-contamination of
     bronchoscopy specimens. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 126, 1095---1097.
de Chastellier, C, FreheL c., Offredo, c., and Skamene, E. (1993) Implication ofphagosome-lysosome
     fusion in restriction of Mycobacterium avium growth in bone marrow macrophages from
     genetically resistant mice. Inject. Immun. 61, 3775---3784.
De Groote, M.A, Fulton, K and Huitt, G. (2001). Retrospective analysis of aspiration risk and genetic
     predisposition in bronchiectasis patients with and without non-tuberculous mycobacteria
     infection. Am J. Respir. Cnt. Care Med. 163, A763.
De Groote, MA and Iseman, M In: Gorbach Te.xtbook of Irifectious Diseases, 3rd eel. New York,
     Lippincott Williams & Willkins, 2003.
De Groote, M.A, Strausbaug, LJ., Jernigan, D. and Liedke, L.A Infections caused by rapidly growing
     mycobacteria: experience of the infectious disease consultants. In: International Conference on
     Emerging Infectious Diseases. Atlanta, Georgia, 2002.
Debnmner, M, Salfinger, M, Brandli, O. and von Graevenitz, A (1992). Epidemiology and clinical
     significance of nontuberculous mycobacteria in patients negative for human immunodeficiency
     virus in Switzerland Clin. Infect. Dis. 15,330-----345.
Deere, D., Stevens, M, Davison, A, Helm, G. and Dufour, A Management strategies. In: Fewtrell, L.
     and Bartram, J. eds. Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health. London, 1WA Publishing,
     2001.
Del Prete, R, Quaranta, M, Lippolis, A, Giannuzzi, v., Mosca, A, Jirillo, E. and Miragliotta, G.
     (1998) Detection of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in stool samples of patients with
     inflammatory bowel disease by IS900-based PCR and colorimetric detection of amplified DNA
     J. Microbiol. Methods. 33,105---114.
DeSimone J.A, Pomerantz RJ. and Babinchak TJ. (2000) Inflammatory reactions in HIV-l infected
     persons after initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Ann. Intern. Med. 133,447--454.
Devallois, A, Goh, KS. and Rastogi, N. (1997) Rapid identification of mycobacteria to species level
     by PCR- restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the hsp65 gene and proposition of
     an algorithm to differentiate 34 mycobacterial species. J. Clin. MlCrobiol. 35,2969-2973.
Devallois, A, Picardeau, M, Paramasivan, c.N., Vincent, V. and Rastogi, N. (1997a) Molecular
     characterization of Mycobacterium avium complex isolates giving discordant results in
     AccuProbe tests by PCR-restriction enzyme analysis, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and DTl-
     DT6 PCR J. Clin. Microbiol. 35, 2767-2772.
Dever, L.L., Martin, J.w., Seaworth, B. and Jorgensen, J.H (1992) Varied presentations and responses
     to treatment of infections caused by Mycobacterium haemophilum in patients with AIDS. Clin.
     Infect Dis. 14, 1195-1200.
Dhople, AM., Storrs, E.E., and Lamoureux, L.c. (1992) Isolation of cultivable mycobacteria from
     feces and lungs of armadillos infected with Mycobacterium leprae. Int. J. Lepr. Other Mycobact.
     Dis. 60,244---249.
Dierkes-Globisch, A and Mohr, H (2002) Pulmonary function abnonnalities in respiratory
     asymptomatic patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Eur. J. Intern. Med. 13,385.
Diniz, L.M, Zandonade, E., Dietze, R, Pereira, F.E., and Ribeiro-Rodrigues, R (2001) Short report: do
     intestinal nematodes increase the risk for mulhbacillary leprosy? Am. 1 Trop. Med Hyg. 65,
     852---854.
Dobos, KM, Quinn, F.D., Ashford, D.A, Horsburgh, CR & King, CH (1999) Emergence of a
     unique group of necrotizing mycobacterial diseases. Emerg. Inject Dis. 5, 367-378.
                                             References                                            191

Dohmmm, K, Strommenger, B., Stevenson, K, de Juan, L., Stratmann, 1, Kapur, v., Bull, TJ. and
     Gerlach G-F. (2003) Characterisation of genetic differences between Nfycobacterium avium
     subsp. paratuberculosis type I and type II isolates. J Clin. Microbiol. 41,5215-23.
Domergue Than, T.E., Descamps, v., Larger, E., Grossin, M., Belaich, S., and Crickx, B. (2001)
     [Jvfycobactenum kansasii skin infection at insulin injection sites]. Ann. Dermatol. Venereol. 128,
     250-252.
Doores, S. Food safety: current status and fUture trends. Washington, American Academy of
     Microbiology, 1999.
Dore, GI, Li, Y., McDonald, A, and Kaldor, JM. (2001) Spec1rum of AIDS-defining illnesses in
     Australia, 1992 to 1998: influence of COtnltIy/region ofbirth. J Acquir. Immune. IXific. Syndr. 26,
     283-290.
Dorronsoro, I., Sarasqueta, R, Gonzalez, AI. and Gallego, M. (1997) [Cutaneous infections by
     Jvfycobactenum marinum. Description 00 cases and review of the litera1ure]. Eriferm. IfIfocc.
     Microbiol. Clin. 15, 82-%1.
Douglass, A, Bramble, M.G, Silcock, IG, and Cann, PA (2001) Antimycobacterial treatment for
     Crohn's disease. Does it prevent surgery and how fast does it act? Gut 48, A89.
Doyle, T.M. (1954) Isolation of Johne's bacilli from the udders of clinically affected cows. Br. Vet. J
     110,215-218.
Doyle, T.M. (1956) Johne's Disease. Vet. Rec. 68, 869---886.
Drnke, TA, Herron, RM., Jr., Hindler, lA, Berlin, O.GW. and Bruckner, DA (1988) DNA probe
     reactivity of Nfycobactenum avium complex isolates from patients with and without AIDS.
     Diagn. Microbiol.IfIfoct. Dis. 11, 125---128.
Drancourt, M., Bollet, c., Carlioz, A, Martelin, R, Gayral, I-P. and Raoult, D. (2000) 16S ribosomal
     sequence analysis of a large collection of environmental and clinical unidentifiable bacterial
     isolates. J Clin. Microb. 38, 3623-3630.
Drummond C. Victorian Irifectious Diseases Laboratory report, Volume 2 Issue 1, 1999.
     (http://www.dhs.vic.gov.au/phb/vidblbackhtm. Accessed 10/1/2003. Downloadable PDF).
du Moulin, G.c., and Stottmeier, KD. (1978) Use of cetylpyridinium chloride in the decontamination
     of water for cul1ure ofmycobacteria Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 36,771-773.
du Moulin, Gc. and Stottmeier, KD. (1986). Waterborne mycobacteria: an increasing threat to health.
     ASMNews 52,525-529.
du Moulin, Gc., Stottmeier, KD., Pelletier, PA, Tsang, A Y. and Hedley-Whyte, 1 (1988)
     Concentration ofNfycobactenum avium by hospital hot water systems. JAMA 260, 1599--1601.
du Moulin, G.c., Sherman, IH., Hoaglin, D.c., and Stottmeier, KD. (1985) Jvfycobacterium avium
     complex, an emerging pathogen in Massachusetts. J Clin. MlCrobiol. 22,9--12.
Duerr, RI (2002) The genetics of inflammatory bowel disease. Gastroenterol. Clin. North. Am 31,
     63-76.
Duggan, AE., Usmani, I., Neal, KR and Logan, RF.A (1998) Appendicectomy, childhood hygiene,
     Helicobacter pylori status, and risk of inflammatory bowel disease: a case control study. Gut 43,
     494---498.
Dtmdee, L., Grant, IR, Ball, H.J. and Rowe, M.T. (2001) Comparative evaluation of four
     decontamination protocols for the isolation of Nfycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis
     from milk Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 33, 173-177.
Eamens, G.I, Whittington, RI, Marsh, I.B., Tumer, M.I, Saunders, V., Kernsley, PD. and Rayward,
     D. (2000) Comparative sensitivity of various fuecal cul1ure methods and ELISA in dairy cattle
     herds with endemic Johne's disease. Vet. Microbiol. 77,357-367.
Eaton, T., Falkinharn, 10., III and von Reyn, CP. (1995) Recovery of Jvfycobacterium avium from
     cigarettes. J Clin. Microbiol. 33, 2757-2758.
192                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Ebert, D. L. and Olivier, K N. (2002). Nontuberculous mycobacteria in cystic fibrosis. Infect. Dis. Clin.
      NorthAm. 16,221-233.
Eckstein T.M., Inamine J.M., Lambert ML. and Belisle J.T. (2000) A Genetic Mechanism for
      Deletion of the ser2 Gene Cluster and Fonnation of Rough Mmphologica1 Variants of
      Mycobacteriumavium.J Bacterio1.182, 6177~182
Edelstein, H. (1994) Mycobacterium marinum skin infections. Report of 31 cases and review of the
      literature. Arch. Intern. Med. 154, 1359---1364.
Eishi, Y., Suga, M, Ishige, 1., Kobayashi, D., Yamada, T., Takerrrura, T., Takizawa, T., Koike, M,
      Kudoh, S., Costabel, u., Guzman, J., Rizzato, G., Gambacorta, M, du, B.R, Nicholson, Ao.,
      Sharma, O.P., and Ando, M (2002) Quantitative analysis of mycobacterial and propionibacterial
      DNA in lymph nodes of Japanese and European patients with sarcoidosis. J Clin. Microbiol. 40,
      198--204.
EI Sahly, H.M., Septimus, E., Soini, H., Septimus, J., Wallace, RJ., Pan, x., Williams-Bouyer, N.,
      Musser, J.M., and Graviss, EA (2002) Mycobacterium simiae Pseud(H)utbreak Resulting from
      a Contaminated Hospital Water Supply in Houston, Texas. Clin. Infect Dis. 35, 802--807.
Ellen D.E., Stiens1ra Y., Teelken MA, Dijkstra p.u., van der Graaf W.T. and van der Werf T.S.
      (2003) Assessment of functional limitations caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans infection:
      towards a Buru1i ulcer functional limitation score. Trop. Med. Int. Health 8, ~96.
Ellingson, J.L., Bolin, CA, and Stabel, J.R (1998) Identification of a gene unique to Mycobacterium
      avium subspecies paratuberculosis and application to diagnosis of paratuberculosis. Mol. Cell
      Probes 12, 133-142.
Elsaghier, A, Prantera, c., Moreno, c., Ivanyi, J. (1992) Antibodies to Mycobacterium
      paratuberculosis-specific protein antigens in Crohn's disease. Clin. exp. Immunol. 90, 503--508.
EI-Zaatari, FAK, Naser, SA, Hulten, K, Burch, P., and Graham, D.Y. (1999) Characterization of
      Mycobacterium paratuberculosis p36 Antigen and its Seroreactivities in Crohn's Disease.
      Current Microbiol. 39, 11~119.
EI-Zaatari, FAK, Osato, MS. and Graham, D.Y. (2001) Etiology ofCrohn's disease: the role of
      Mycobacterium avium paratuberculosis. TRENDS in Mol Med. 7,247-252.
Embil, J., Warren, P., Yakrus, M, Stalk, R, Come, S and Forrest, D. (1997) Pulmonmy illness
      associated with exposure to Mycobacterium avium complex in hot tub water: hypersensitivity
      pneumonitis or infection? Chest 111, 813--816.
Emde, KM., Chomyc, SA and Finch, G.R (1992) Initial investigation on the occurrence of
      Mycobacterium species in swimming pools. J Environ. Hlth. 54, 34--37.
Enzenauer, RJ., McKoy, J., Vincent, D. and Gates, R (1990) Disseminated cutaneous and synovial
      Mycobacterium marinum infection in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. South. Med. J
      83,471---474.
Enzensberger, R, Hunfeld, KP., Elshorst-Schmidt, T., Boer, A and Brade, V. (2002) Disseminated
      cutaneous Mycobacterium mariuum infection in a patient with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
      Infection 30, 393--395.
EPA (2002) Mycobacteria: Drinking Water Fact Sheet, EPA-822-F-02-OO2.
Epstein, MD., Aranda, c.P., Bonk, S., Hanna, B., and Rom, W.N. (1997) The significance of
      Mycobacterium avium complex cultivation in the sputum of patients with pulmoruuy
      tuberculosis. Chest 111, 142-147.
Falkinham, J.O., III. (1989) Factors influencing the aeroso1ization of mycobacteria. In: Monahan, E.C.
      and Van Paten, MA, eds. The Climate and Health Implications of Bubble-Mediated Sea-Air
      Exchange, Connecticut Sea Grant Program, Groton, 1989: 17-25.
                                            References                                            193

Falkinharn, 10., III (1996) Epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous mycobacteria Clin.
      Microbiol. Revs. 9, 177-215.
FaIkinharn, 10., III (2002) Nontuberculous mycobacteria in ilie environment Clin. Chest Med. 23,
      529-551.
Falkinham 10., Ill, Bruce c.P., and Gmft H. (1980) Epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous
      mycobacteria Am Rev. Respir. Dis. 121, 931-937.
FaIkinharn, J.O., Ill, George, KL., Ford, M.A and Parker, B.c. Collection and characteristics of
      mycobacteria in aerosols. In: Morey, P.R, Feeley, Ie., Sr., and Otten, JA., eds. Biological
      Contaminants in Indoor Environments, Philadelphia, American society for Testing and Materials,
      1990: 71-81.
Falkinharn, 10., Ill, George, KL., Parker, B.C. and Gmft, H. (1984) In vitro susceptibility of human
      and environmental isolates of lvfycobactenum avium, M intracellulare, and M scrofolaceum to
      heavy-metal salts and oxyanions. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 25, 137-139.
FaIkinharn, 10., Ill, Norton, CD. and LeChevallier, M.w. (2001) Factors influencing numbers of
      lvfycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and oilier mycobacteria in drinking water
      distribution systems. Appl Environ. MTCrObial. 67, 1225-123 I.
Falkinharn, 10., III, Parker, B.C. and Gmft, H. (1980) Epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous
      mycobacteria. I. Geographic distnbution in ilie eastern United States. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 121,
      931--937.
FaIkofl; G.E., Rigsby, c.M., and Rosenfield, AT. (1987) Partial, combined cortical and meduIImy
      nephrocaIcinosis: US and CT patterns in AIDS-associated MAl infection. Radiology 162, 343-
      344.
Fawcett, AR, Goddard, PJ., McKelvey, WA, Buxton, D., Reid, H.W, Greig, A, and Macdonald,
      Al. (1995) Johne's disease in a herd offunned red deer. Vet. Rec.136, 165-169.
Feizabadi, MM., Robertson, m., Hope, A, Cousins, D.V. and Hampson, D.J. (1997) Differentiation
      of Australian isolates of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
      Aust. VetJ. 75,887----889.
Fellows, I.W, Freeman, IF. and Holmes, GK. T. (1990) Crohn's disease in ilie city ofDerby, 1951-85.
      Gut. 31, 1262-1265.
Ferroglio, E., Nebbia, P., Robino, P. Ross~ L. and Rosati, S. (2000) lvfycobacterium paratuberculosis
      infection in two free-ranging Alpine ibex. Rev. Sci. Tech. 19,859----862.
Field, IW, Corless, c., Rogers, RA, Arbeit, RD. and Ford, T.E.lvfycobacterium avium in drinking
      water biofiIms. 97th General Meeting ofthe American Society for Microbiology, 1997: Abst No.
      2078.
Fine, P.E., Floyd, S., Stanford, IL., Nkhosa, P., Kasunga, A, Chaguluka, S., Wamdorfl; DK., Jenkins,
      PA., Yates, M., and Ponnighaus, IM. (2001) Environmental mycobacteria in northern Malawi:
      implications for ilie epidemiology oftuberculosis and leprosy. Epidemial Infect. 126,379-387.
Fiocc~ e. (1998) lnflammatory Bowel Disease: Etiology and Pafuogenesis. Gastroenterol. 115,
      182-205.
Fischeder, R, Schulze-Robbecke, R and Weber, A (1991) Occurrence of mycobacteria in drinking
      water samples. Zentralbl. Hyg. Umweltmed. 192, 154--158.
Fischer, 0., Matlova, L., Bartl, I, Dvorska, L., Melicharek, 1. and Pavlik, I. (2000) Findings of
      mycobacteria in insectivores and smaII rodents. Folia. Microbial. 45, 147-152.
Fischer, 0., Matlova, L., Dvorska, L., Svastova P., Bartl, I Melicharek, 1., Weston, RT. and Pavlik 1.
      (2001) Diptera as vectors of mycobacterial infections in cattle and pigs. Med. and Vet. Entomol.
      15,208---211.
Fischer, o.A, Matlova, L., Bartl, J. Dvorska, L., Svastova P., du Maine, R, Melicharek, I., Bartos, M.
      and Pavlik I. (2003) Earfuworms (Oligochaeta, Lumbricidae) and mycobacteria Vet. Microbial.
      25, 325-338.
194                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Fitzgerald, IR and Musser, 1M (2001) Evolutiomuy genomics of pathogenic bacteria Trends
      Microbiol. 9, 547-553.
Fleischman, R w., du Moulin, G.C, Esber, H.J., llievski, V., and Bogden, AE. (1982) Nontuberculous
      mycobacterial infection attnbutable to Mycobacterium intracellulare serotype 10 in two rhesus
      monkeys. J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 181, 1358---1362.
Fliennans, CB., Cherry, w.B., Orrison, L.H., Smith, S.J., Tison, D.L. and Pope, D.H. (1981)
      Ecological distnbution ofLegionella pneumophila. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 41, 9-16.
Flor, A, Capdevila, lA, Martin, N., Gavalda, J., and Pahissa, A (19%) Nontuberculous mycobacterial
      meningitis: report of two cases and review. Clin. Inject. Dis. 23,1266-1273.
Ford, TE. (1999) Microbiological safety of drinking water: United States and global perspectives.
      Environmental Health Perspectives. 107, 191-206.
Francois, B., Krislmamoorthy, R and Elion, 1 (1997) Comparative study of Mycobacterium
      paratuberculosis strains isolated from Crohn's disease and Johne's disease using restriction
      fragment length polymorphism and arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction. Epidemiol.
      Inject. 118,227-233.
Fraser, DW. (1981) Bacteria newly recognized as nosocomial pathogens. Am. J. Med. 70,432-438.
Frehe~ C, de Chastellier, C, Lang, T and Rastogi, N. (1986) Evidence for inhibition of fusion of
      lysosomal and pre-lysosomal compartments with phagosomes in macrophages infected with
      pathogenic Mycobacterium avium. Infect. Immun. 52,252-262.
Frehe~ C, de Chastellier, C, Offredo, C and Berche, P. (1991) Intramacrophage growth of
      Mycobacterium avium during infection of mice. Infect. Immun. 59, 2207-2214.
Freije, MR Spas, Hot Tubs, and Whirlpool Bathtubs: A Guide for Disease Prevention. Fallbrook, HC
      Information Resources, Inc., 2000. (ht1p://hcinfo.com, accessed 30/03/2004).
Freitas, 1, Panetta, IC, Curcio, M, and Ueki, S.Y. (2001) [Mycobacterium avium complex in water
      buffaloes slaughtered for consumption]. Rev. Saude Publica 35, 315---317.
Fridriksdottir, v., Gunnarsson, E., Sigurdarson, S. and Gudmundsdottir, KB. (2000) Paratuberculosis
      in Iceland: epidemiology and control measures, past and present Vet. Microbial. 77, 263-267.
Frosch, M, Roth, 1, Ullrich, K, and Banns, E. (2000) Successful treatment of Mycobacterium avium
      osteomyelitis and arthritis in a non-immunocompromised child. Scand. J. Infect. Dis. 32, 328---
      329.
Frothingham, R and Wilson, KH. (1993) Sequence-based differentiation of strains in the
      Mycobacterium avium complex. J Bacteriol. 175,2818---2825.
Frothingham, R and Wilson, KH. (1994) Molecular phylogeny ofthe Mycobacterium avium complex
      demonstrates clinically meaningful divisions. J Inject. Dis. 169, 305---312.
Frueh, B.E., Dubuis, 0., Imesch, P., Bohnke, M and Bodmer, T. (2000) Mycobacterium szulgai
      keratitis. Arch. Ophthalmol. 118, 1123-1124.
Fry, KL., Meissner, P.S. and Falkinham, 10., ill (1986) Epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous
      mycobacteria VI. Identification and use of epidemiologic markers fur studies of Mycobacterium
      avium, M intracellulare, and M scrofolaceum. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 134,39-43.
Fujita, 1, Nanki, N., Negayama, K, Tsutsui, S., Taminato, T. and Ishida, T (2002) Nosocomial
      contamination by Mycobacterium gordonae in hospital water supply and super-oxidized water. J
      Hosp. Infect 51, 65~8.
Fulcher, S.F., Fader, RC, Rosa, RH., Jr. & Holmes, G.P. (2002) Delayed-onset mycobacterial keratitis
      after LASIK Cornea 21,546-554.
Gaburri, P.D., Chebli, 1M, de Castro, L.E., Ferreira, 10., Lopes, MH., Ribeiro, AM, Alves, RA,
      Froede, E.C, de Oliveira, KS., Gaburri, AK, Gaburri, D., Meirelles Gde S. and de Souza, AF.
                                             References                                             195

      (1998) Epidemiology, clinical features and clinical course of Crohn's disease: a study of 60 cases.
      Arq. Gastroenterol. 35,240---246.
Galil, K, Miller, L.A, Yakrus, MA, Wallace, RJ., Jr., Mosley, D.G., England, B., Huitt, G., McNei~
      MM and Perkins, BA (1999) Abscesses due to Mycobacterium abscessus linked to nyection of
      unapproved alternative medicatiOlL Emerg. Irrfoct. Dis. 5, 681-687.
Gao, A, Mutharia, L., Chen, S., Rahn, K, and Odwneru, J. (2002) Effect ofpasteurization on survival
      ofMycobacterium paratuberculosis in milk. J. Dairy Sci. 85, 3198-3205.
Garg, P., Bansal, AK, Sharma, S. and Vemuganti, GK (2001) Bilateral infectious keratitis after laser
       in situ keratomileusis: a case report and review of the literature. Ophthalmology 108, 121-125.
Gasteiner, J., Awad-Masalmeh, M and Baumgartner, W (2000) Mycobacterium avium subsp.
      paratuberculosis inrection in cattle in Austria, diagnosis with culture, PCR and EUSA Vet.
      Microbiol. 77, 33~349.
Gasteiner, J., Wenzl, H, Fuchs, K, Jark, U. and Baumgartner, W (1999) Serological cross-sectional
      study ofparatuberculosis in cattle in Austria Zentralbl Veterinarmed. [BJ. 46, 457--466.
Gebo, KA, Srinivasan, A, Perl, T M., Ross, T., Groth, A, and Merz, WG. (2002) PseudO-{lutbreak of
      Mycobacterium fortuitum on a Human Immunodeficiency Virus Ward: transient respiratory tract
      colonization from a contaminated ice machine. Clin. Inject. Dis. 35, 32-38.
Geboes, K and Collins, S. (1998) Structural abnormalities ofthe neIVOUS system in Crohn's disease and
      ulcerative colitis. Neurogastroenterol. Mot. 10, 18~202.
Geboes, K, Rutgeerts, P., Ectors, N., Mebis, J., Penninickx, F., Vantrappen, G. and Desmet, V J.
      (1992) Major histocompattbility Class IT expression on the small intestinal neIVOUS system in
      Crohn's disease. Gastroenteroll03, 439--447.
Geldreich, E.E. and LeChevallier, M.w. Microbial Water Quality in Distribution Systems. In:
      Lettennan, RD., ed. Water Qualify and Treatment, 5th edition, NY, McGraw-Hill, 1999: 18.1-
       18.49.
Geldreich, EE., Taylor, RH., Blannon, J.c. and Reasoner, D.J. (1985) Bacterial colonization ofpoint-
      of-use water treatment devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 77, 72---,<30.
Gent, AE., Hellier, MD., Grace, RH, Swarbrick, E.T. and Coggon, D. (1994) Inflammatory bowel
      disease and domestic hygiene in infuncy. Lancet 343,76&--767.
George, KL., and Falkinham, J.O., ill. (1986) Selective medium for the isolation and enumeration of
      Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and M scrofolaceum. Can. J. Microbiol. 32, 10--14.
George, KL., Parker, B.C., Gruft, H and FaIkinham, J.O., ill. (1980) Epidemiology ofinrection by
      nontuberculous mycobacteria IT. Growth and survival in natural waters. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis.
      122,8~94.
George, KM, Olattcrjee, D., Gunawardana, G., Welty, D., Hayman, J., Lee, R and Small, P.L. (1999)
     Mycolactone: A polyketide toxin from Mycobacterium ulcerans required for virulence. Science
     283,85~57.
Ghebremichael, S., Svenson, S.B., Kallenius, G., and Hofiher, S.E. (1996) Antimycobacterial
     synergism of clarithromycin and rifubutin Scand. J. Irrfoct. Dis. 28, 387-390.
Giaconi, J., Pham, Rand Ta, CN. (2002) Bilateral Mycobacterium abscessus keratitis after laser in situ
     keratomileusis.J. Cataract. Refract. Sw-g. 28, 887---,<390.
Glover, N., Holtzman, A, Aronson, T., Froman, S., Berlin, O.G.w., Dominguez, P., Kunkel, KA,
     Overturf; G., Stehna, G., Jr., Smith, C. and Yakrus, M. (1994) The isolation and identification of
     Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) recovered from Los Angeles potable water, a possible
     source of infection in AIDS patients. Int. J. Environ. Hlth. Res. 4, 63-72.
Gombert, ME., Goldstein, EJ., Corrado, ML., Stein, AJ. and Butt, KM (1981) Disseminated
     Mycobacterium marinum infection after renal transplantation. Ann. Intern. Med. 94, 486---487.
Good, RC. and Snider, D.E., Jr. (1982) Isolation of nontuberculous mycobacteria in the United States,
     1980.J. Infect. Dis. 146, 829--833.
196                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Gooding, T.M, Johnson, P.D., Smith, M, Kemp AS., and Robins-Browne, RM (2002) Cytokine
      profiles of patients infected with Mycobacterium ulcerans and unaffected household contacts.
      Inject Immun. 70, 5562-5567.
Goodwin, B.T., Jerome, c.P., and Bullock, B.C. (1988) Unusual lesion morphology and skin test
      reaction for Mycobacterium avium complex in macaques. Lab. Anim. Sci. 38, 20-24.
Gordon, S.Y., Brosch, R, Eiglmeier, K, Gamier, T., Hewinson, Ro., and Cole, S.T. (2002). Royal
      Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene Meeting at Manson House, London, 18th January
      2001. Pathogen genomes and human health. Mycobacterial genomics. Trans. R Soc. Trop. Med.
      Hyg.96,I--{).
Graham, 1.E. and Ckui<-Curtiss, 1.E. (1999) Identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis RNAs
      synthesized in response to phagocytosis by human macrophages by selective capture of
      transcribed sequences (SCOTS). Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA 96,11554-11559.
Graham, L. Jr., Warren, N.G., Tsang, AY. and Dalton, H.P. (1988) Mycobacterium avium complex
      pseudobacteriuria from a hospital water supply. J. Clin. Microbial. 26, 1034-1036.
Grange 1.M., Yates M, and Pozniak A (1995) Bacteriologically confinned non-tuberculous
      mycobacterial lymphadenitis in south east England: a recent increase in the number of cases.
      Arch Dis. Child. 72, 516-517.
Grange, 1.M (1992) Mycobacterial infuctions following heart valve replacement. J. Heart Valve Dis. 1,
       102-109.
Grant, IR, Ball, HJ., Neill, S.D. and Rowe, MT. (1996) Inactivation of Mycobacterium
      paratuberculosis in cows' milk at pasteurization temperatures. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 62,
      631--{)36.
Grant, 1R, Ball, HJ., and Rowe, MT. (1996a). Thennal inactivation of several Mycobacterium spp. in
      milk by pasteurization. Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 22, 253-256.
Grant, IR, Ball, HJ. and Rowe, MT. (1998) Isolation of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis from milk
      by immunomagnetic separation. Appl Environ Microbiol64, 3153-3158.
Grant, 1R, Ball, HJ. and Rowe, MT. (1999) Effect of higher pasteurization temperatures, and longer
      holding times at noc, on the inactivation of Mycobaderium paratuberculosis in milk. Letts. in
      Appl Microbiol. 28,461--465.
Grant, IR, Ball, HI and Rowe, MT. (2002) Incidence of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in bulk
      raw and connnercially pasteurized cows' milk from approved dairy processing establishments in
      the United Kingdon. Appl. Environ. MICrobiol. 68,2428--2435.
Grant, IR, Hitchings, E.1, McCartney, A, Ferguson, R and Rowe, M.T. (2002a) Effect of
      connnercial-sca\e high-temperature, short-time pasteurization on the viability of Mycobadenum
      paratuberculosis in naturally infected cows' milk. Appl. Environ. M/C1Vbiol. 68, ffJ2---6fJ7.
Green, E.P., Tizard, ML.Y., Moss, M.T., Thompson, 1., WinteJboume, DJ., McFadden, J.1. and
      Herrnon-Taylor, I (1989) Sequence and characteristics oflS900, an insertion element identified
      in a human Crobn's disease isolate of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. Nuc. Acid. Res. 17,
      9063-9073.
Greig, A, Stevenson, K, Henderson, D., Perez, Y., Hughes, Y., Pavlik, 1, Hines, ME., McKendrick, I.
      and Sharp, M (1999) Epidemiological study of paratuberculosis in wild rabbits in Scotland J.
       Clin. Microbial. 37,1746-1751.
Griffith, D.E. (1997). Nontuberculousmycobacteria Curr. (]pin. Pulm Med. 3, 139-145.
Griffith, D.E. (2002) Management of disease due to Mycobacterium kansasii. Clin. Chest Med. 23,
      613--{)21.
                                              References                                               197

Griffith, D.E., Brown, BA, Cegielski, P., Murphy, D.T. & Wallace, RJ., Jr. (2000) Early results (at 6
      months) with intennittent clarithromycin-including regimens for lung disease due to
      lvfycobacterium avium complex. Clin. Infoct. Dis. 30, 28~292.
Griffith, D.E., Brown, BA, Girard, W.M, MUtphy, D.T. & Wallace, RJ., Jr. (1996) Azithromycin
      activity against lvfycobacterium avium complex lung disease in patients who were not infected
      with human immunodeficiency virus. Clin. Ir{ect. Dis. 23, 983-989.
Griffith, D.E., Brown, BA, MUtphy, D.T., Girard, WM., Couch, L. and Wallace, RJ., Jf. (1998)
      Initial (6-month) results of three-times-weekly azithromycin in treatment regimens for
      lvfycobacterium avium complex lung disease in human immunodeficiency virus-negative
      patients.J Infoct. Dis. 178, 121-126.
Griffiths, PA, Boob, JR, Bradley, CR and Fraise, AP. (1997) Glutaraldehyde-resistant
      Mycobaderium chelonae from endoscope washer disinfectors. J. Appl Mk:robiol. 82, 519-526.
Griffiths, P A, Boob, J.R & Fraise, AP. (1999) Mycobactericidal activity of selected disinfectants
      using a quantitative suspension test.J. Hosp. Infect. 41, 111-12l.
Gubler, J.G., Salfinger, M, and von Graevenitz, A (1992) Pseudoepidemic of nontuberculous
      mycobacteria due to a contaminated bronchoscope cleaning machine. Report of an outbreak and
      review of the literature. Chest 101,1245-1249.
Guerrero, e., Bernasconi, e., BurlG, D., Bodmer, T. and Telenti, A (1995) A novel insertion elernent
       from lvfycobacterium avium, IS1245, is a specific target for analysis of strain relatedness. J. Clin.
      Micrabiol. 33, 304-307.
Gui, G.P.H., Thomas, PRS., Tizard, ML.Y., Lake, J., Sanderson, J.D., and Hennon-Taylor, J. (1997)
       Two-year-outcomes analysis ofCrohn's disease treated with rifubutin and macrolide anubiotics. J.
      Antimicrob. Chemother. 39, 393---400.
Gurtler, L. (1994) [Drinking of tap water and shower in clinics is risky for immunologically
       compromised patients]. Fortschr. Med. 112, 10.
Guthertz, L.S., Damsker, B., Bottone, EJ., Ford, E.G., Midura, T.F. and Jamda, J.M (1989)
      lvfycobacterium avium and lvfycobacterium intracellulare intections in patients with and without
      AIDS.J. Infect. Dis. 160, 1037-1041.
Gwozdz, J.M, Thompson, KG. and Manktelow, BW. (2001) Lymphocytic neuritis of the ileum in
       sheep with naturally acquired and experimental paratuberculosis. J. Comp. Patha!. 124, 317-
      320.
Gyure, KA, Prayson, RA, Estes, ML., and Hall, G.S. (1995) Symptomatic lvfycobacterium avium
      complex intection of the central nervous system. A case report and review of the literature. Arch.
      Patha!. Lab Med. 119,836--839.
Haas, e.N., Meyer, MA and Paller, MS. (1983) The ecology of acid-fust organisms in water supply,
      treatment, and distribution systems. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 75, 139-144.
Hakim, A, Hisam, N. & Reuman, P.D. (1993) Environmental mycobacterial peritonitis complicating
      peritoneal dialysis: three cases and review. Clin. Ir{ect. Dis. 16,426-31.
Hall-Stoodley, L., Keevil, CW. and Lappin-Scott, H.M (1999) lvfycobacterium fortuitum and
      lvfycabaderium chelonae biofilm fonnation under high and low nutrient conditions. J. App!.
      Microbia!., Symposium Suppl., 85: 6OS--69S.
Hall-Stoodley, L. and Lappin-Scott, H. (1998). Biofilm formation by the rapidly growing
      mycobacterial species Mycabacteriumfortuitum. FEMS Microbial. Lett. 168,77---84.
Hampe, J., Cuthbert, A, Croucher, PJ.P., Mirza, MM., Mascheretti, S., Fisher, S., Frenzel, H., King,
      K, Hasselmeyer, A, MacPherson, AJ.S., Bridger, S., van Deventer, S., Forbes, A, Nikolaus, S.,
      Lennard-Jones, J.E., Foelsch, DR, Krawczak, M, Lewis, e., Schreiber, S. and Mathew, e.G.
       (2001) Association between insertion mutation in NOD2 gene and Crohn's disease in Gennan
       and British populations. Lancet. 357, 1925-1928.
198                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Harrington G.w., Chen, H.W, Harris, AI, Xagoraraki, I., Battigelli, D., and. Standridge IH. Removal
      of emerging waterborne pathogens. Denver, AWWA Research Foundation and the American
      Water Works Association, 2001.
Harris, N.B, and Barletta, RG. (2001) Mycobocterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in Veterinary
      Medicine. Clin Microbiol. Rev. 14,489-512.
Havelaar, AH., Berwald, L.G., Groothuis, D.G. and Baas, IG. (1985) Mycobacteria in semi-public
      swirnrningpools and whirlpools. Zbl. Bakt. Hyg I Abt. Orig. B 180, 505-514.
Havlik, lA, Horsburgh, e.R, Metchcock, B., Williams, P.P., Fann, SA and Thompson, S.E. (1992)
      Disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection: clinical identification and epidemiologic
      trends. J. Infect. Dis. 165, 577-580.
Havlir, D.v., Dube, M.P., Sattler, F.R., Furthal, D.N., Kemper, CA, Dtmne, M W, Parenti, D.M,
      Lavelle, IP., White, Ae., Jr., Witt, MD., Bo=tte, SA and McCutchan, IA (1996)
      Prophylaxis against disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex with weekly azithromycin,
      daily rifubutin or both. New Eng!. J. Med. 335, 392-398.
Heatley, R v., Thomas, P., Prokipchuk, EJ., Gauldie, J., Sieniewicz, DJ. and Bienenstock, 1 (1982)
      Pulmonary function abnonna1ities in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Q. J. Med. 203,
      241-250.
Heckert, RA, Elankumaran, S., Milani, A, and Baya, A (200 I) Detection of a new Mycobacterium
      species in wild striped bass in the Chesapeake Bay. J. Clin. Microbiol. 39, 710-715.
Heifets L. (1996) Susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium avium complex isolates. Antimicrob. Agents
      Chemother. 40, 1759-1767.
Helie, P. and Higgins, R (1996) Mycobacterium avium complex abortion in a mare. J. Vet. Diogn.
      Invest. 8,257-258.
Hellinger, We., Smilack, JD., Greider, 1L., Jr., Alvarez, S., Trigg, SD., Brewer, N.S. and Edson, RS.
      (1995) Localized soft-tissue infections with Mycobacterium aviumlMycobacterium intracellulare
      complex in immunocompetent patients: granulomatous tenosynovitis of the hand or wrist. Clin
      Infect. Dis. 21, 65---69.
Hennon-Taylor, I (1993) Causation ofCrohn's disease: The impact of clusters. Gastroenterol. 104,
      643~.
Hennon-Taylor, J. (1998) The causation ofCrohn's disease and treatment with antimicrobial drugs.
    Ital. J. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 30, 607---610.
Hennon-Taylor, 1 (2002) Treatment with drugs active against Mycobacterium avium subspecies
    paratuberculosis can heal Crohn's disease: more evidence for a neglected Public Health tragedy.
    Digest. Liver Dis. 34, 9-12.
Hennon-Taylor, J., Barnes, N., Clarke, e. and Finlayson, e. (1998) Mycobacterium paratuberculosis
    cervical lymphadenitis, followed five years later by terminal ileitis similar to Crohn's disease.
    BMf. 316,449-453.
Hennon-Taylor, 1, and Bull, TJ. (2002) Crohn's disease caused by Mycobacterium avium subsp.
    paratuberculosis: a public health tragedy whose resolution is long overdue. J.Med.Microbiol. 51,
    3---6.
Hennon-Taylor, J., Bul~ TJ., Sheridan, J., Cheng, 1, Stellakis, ML. and Sumar, N. (2000) The
    causation of Crohn's disease by Mycobacterium avium subsp.paratuberculosis. Can. J.
    GasterenterolI4,521-539.
Hennon-Taylor, J., Moss, M., Tizard, M., Malik, Z., and Sanderson, 1 (1990) Molecular biology of
    Crohn's disease mycobacteria. Baillieres. Clin Gastroenterol 4,23-42.
                                              References                                              199

Herrlinger, KR, Noftz, MK, Dalhoff; K, Ludwig, D., Stange, E.F.,and Fellerrnann, K (2002)
      Alterations in pulmonary function in inflammatory bowel disease are frequent and persist during
      remission. Am. J. Gastroenterol.97,377-38l.
Hildenbrand, H., Finkel, Y., Gralmquist, L., Lindbolm, J., Ekbom, A and Askling, J. (2003) Changing
      pattern of paediatric inflammatory bowel disease in Northern Stockholm 1990-2001. Gut 52,
      1432-1434.
Hillebrand-Haverkort, M.E., Kolk, AB., Kox, L.F., Ten Velden, JJ., and Ten Veen, J.H. (1999)
      Generalized Mycobacterium genavense infection in HlV-infected patients: detection of the
      mycobacterium in hospital tap water. Scand J. Infoct. Dis. 31, 63---{l8.
Ho, T.B., Robertson, BD., Taylor, G.M., Shaw, RJ., and Young, D.B. (2000) Comparison of
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis genomes reveals frequent deletions in a 20 kb variable region in
      clinical isolates. Yeast 17, 272-282.
Hodgson, M. J., Bracker, A, Yang, e., Storey, E., Jarvis, B. J., Milton, D., Lummus, Z., Bernstein, D.
      and Cole, S. (2001) Hypersensitivity pneumonitis in a metal-wolking environment Am. J. Ind
      Med 39, 616---{)28.
Hoffinan, P.e., Fraser, DW., Robicsek, F., O'Bar, P.R and Mauney, e.u. (1981) Two outbreaks of
      sternal wound infuction due to organisms of the Mycobacteriumfortuitum complex. J. Infoct. Dis.
      143,533-542.
Hoffuer S.E., Kallenius G., Petrini B., Brennan P J. and Tsang A Y. (1990) Serovars ofMycobacterium
      avium complex isolated from patients in S\\eden. J. Clin. Micro. 28, 1105---1107.
Holland, S.M. (2001) Nontuberculous mycobacteria Am. J. Med Sci. 321,49-55.
Holmes, G.F., Harrington, S.M., Romagnoli, M.l & Metz, w.G. (1999) Recurrent, disseminated
      Mycobacterium marinum infection caused by the same genotypically defined strain in an
      immunocompromised patientJ. Clin. Microbiol. 37, 3059-306l.
Holmes, G.P., Bond, G.B., Fader, Re. and Fulcher, S.P. (2002) A Cluster of cases of Mycobacterium
      szulgai keratitis that occurred after laser-assisted in situ keratornileusis. Clin. Irifect. Dis. 34,
      1039-1046.
Honer zu Bentrup, K, Swenson, D.L., Miczak, A and Russell, D.G. (1999) Characterization of
      isocitrate lyase activity and expression in Mycobaderium avium and Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis.J. Baderiol.181, 7161-7167.
Hom, B., Forshaw, D., Cousins, D., and Irwin, PJ. (2000) Disseminated Mycobacterium avium
      infection in a dog with chronic dianhoea Aust. Vet. J. 78, 32(}-325.
Horsburgh, CR, Jr. (1991) Mycobacterium avium complex infection in the acquired
      immunodeficiency syndrome. N Engl. J. Med 324,1332-1338.
Horsburgh, e.R, Jr. (1996) Epidemiology of disease caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria Semin.
      Respir. Infect.H, 2~251.
Horsburgh, CR., Jr., Chin, D.P., YlJiko, D.M., Hopewell, P.e., Nassos, P.S., Elkin, E.P., Hadley, WK,
      Stone, EN., Simon, E.M. and Gonzalez P. (1994) Environmental risk factors for acquisition of
      Mycobaderium avium complex in persons with human immunodeficiency virus infection. J.
      Infoct. Dis. 170,362-367.
Horsburgh, CR, Jr., Gettings, 1, Alexander, L.N. and Lennox, lL. (2001) Disseminated
      Mycobaderium avium complex disease among patients inrected with human immunodeficiency
      virus, 1985-2000. Clin. Irif. Dis. 33, 1938----1943.
Horsburgh, CR, Jr., Havlik, lA, Ellis, DA, Kennedy, E., Fann, SA, Dubois, RE. and Thompson,
      SE. (1991) Survival of patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome and disseminated
      Mycobacterium avium complex infection with and without antimycobacterial chemotherapy. Am.
      Rev. Resp. Dis. 144,557-559.
200                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Horsburgh, CR, Jr., Mason, RB., Farlll, D.C. and Iseman, M.D. (1985) Disseminated infection with
     Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare: a report of 13 cases and a review of the literature. Medieine
     64,36-48.
Horsburgh, CR, Jr, and Meyers, w.M. Burnli ulcer. In: Horsburgh CR, Jr, Nelson, AM., eds.
     Pathology ofemerging infections. Washington, American Society for Microbiology Press; 1997:
     119--126.
Hosty, T.S. and McThnmont, c.l. (1975) Isolation of acid-fust organisms from milk and oysters.
     Health Lab. Sci. 12, 16-19.
Hou, IY., Graham, IE. and Clark-Ctutiss, J.E. (2002) Mycobacterium avium genes expressed during
     growth in human macrophages detected by selective capture of transcribed sequences (SCOTS).
     Infect. Immun. 70, 3714-3726.
Hoyt, RE., Bryant, IE., Glessner, S.F., Littleton, F.C., Jr., Sawyer, R w., Newman, RJ., Nichols, D.B.,
     Franco, AP., Jr. and Tingle, NR, Jr. (1989) M marinum infections in a Chesapeake Bay
     comrmmity. Va. Med. 116,467-470.
HSC Approved code of practice and guidance - Legionnaires' disease: the control of legionella
     bacteria in water systems, document L8. Suffolk, HSE Books, 2001.
Hsu, P.Y., Yang, Y.H., Hsiao, c.H., Lee, P.l. and Chiang, B.L. (2002) Mycobacterium kansasii
     infection presenting as cellulitis in a patient with systemic lupus ety\:hematosus. J. Formos. Med.
     A.s:5oc. 101,581-584.
Hughes, V.M., Stevenson, K and ShaIp, J.M. (200 1) Improved preparation of high molecular weight
     DNA for pulsed-field gel electrophoresis from mycobacteria J. MlCrobiol. Methods 44, 209-
     215.
Hugot, J-P., 01amaillard, M., Zouali, H., Lesage, S., Cezard, J-P., Belaiche, J., Almer, S., Tysk, C.,
     O'Morain, CA, Gassuli, M., Binder, v., Finke~ Y., Cortot, A, Modigliani, R, Laurent-Puig, P.,
     Gower-Rousseau, c., Macty, J., Co1ombe1, J-F., Sahbatou, M. and Thomas, G. (2001).
     Association ofNOD2 leucine-rich repeat variants with suscepttbility to Crohn's disease. Nature
     411,599--603.
Hulten, K, El-Zimaity, H.M.T., Karttunen, n., Almashhrawi, A, Schwartz, M.R, Graham, D.Y. and
     El-Zaatari, FAK (2001). Detection ofMycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in Crohn's
     diseased tissues by in situ hybridization. Am. J. Gastroenterol.96, 1529--1535.
Huminer, D., Pitlik, S.D., Block, c., Kaufinan, L., Amit, S. and Rosenfeld, lB. (1986) Aquarium-
     borne Mycobacterium marinum skin infection. Report of a case and review of the literature. Arch
     Dennatol 122, 698-703.
Hunter, D.L. (1996) Tuberculosis in free-ranging, semi free-ranging and captive cervids. Rev. Sci. Tech.
     15,171-181.
Hunter, P. Waterborne Disease: Epidemiology and Ecology. New Yotk, Wiley, 1997.
Hunter, P., Lee, J., Nichols, G., Rutter, M., Surman, S., Weldon, L., Biegnon, D., Fazakerley, T.,
     Drobnewski, F. and MorreR P. Fate of Mycobacterium avium complex in drinking water
     treatment and distnbution systems. London, Public Health Laboratoxy Service, 2001 (DWl
     70/2/122).
Huttunen, K, Jussila, J., Hirvonen, MR, Iivanainen, E., Katila, M.L. (2001) Comparison of
     mycobacteria-induced cytotoxicity and inflammatoty responses in human and mouse cell lines.
     Inhal. Toxicol. 13,977-991.
Huttunen, K, Ruotsalainen, M., Iivanainen, E., Torkko, P., Katila, M., and Hirvonen, M. (2000)
     InfJammatory responses in RAW264.7 macrophages caused by mycobacteria isolated from
     moldy houses. Environ. Toxieol. Phannacol. 8,237-244.
                                            References                                            201

Iivanainen, E (1996) Isolation of mycobacteria from acidic forest soil samples: comparison of
      methods. J. Appl Bacterial. 78, 663--668.
Iivanainen, E, Katila, M-L. and Martikainen, Pl. Mycobacteria in drinking water networks;
      occurrence in water and loose deposits, furmation of biofilrns. Proceedings of the European
      Societyfor MycobacteriDlogy. Lucerne, Switzerland, 1999.
Iivanainen, E, Martikainen, PJ. and Katila, ML. (1995) Effect of freezing of water samples on viable
      counts of environmental mycobacteria Lett. Appl. Microbial. 21,257-260.
Iivanainen, E, Martikainen, PJ. and Katila, ML. (1997) Comparison of some decontamination
      methods and growth media for isolation of mycobacteria from northern brook waters. J. Appl
      Bacterial 82, 121-127.
Iivanainen, E., Martikainen, PJ., Raisanen, ML., and Katila, ML. (1997a) Mycobacteria in boreal
      coniferous forest soils. FEMS Microbial Ecol. 23, 325-332.
Iivanainen, E, Martikainen, PJ., Viiliniinen, P. and Katila, ML. (1993) Environmental factors affecting
      the occurrence of mycobacteria in brook waters. Appl Environ. Microbial 59, 398--404.
IIivanainen, E, Martikainen, PJ., Vaananen, P., and Katila, ML. (l999b) Environmental factors
      affecting the occurrence of mycobacteria in brook sediments. J. Appl Microbial. 86, 673--681.
Iivanainen, E, Sallantaus, T., Katila, ML. and Martikainen, Pl. (1999a) Mycobacteria in nmoff-waters
      from natural and drained peatlands. J. Environ. Qual. 28, 1226-1234.
Iivanainen, E, Northrup, J., Albeit, RD., Ristola, M, Katila, ML., and von Reyn, C.F. (1999c)
      Isolation of mycobacteria from indoor swimming pools in Finland APMIS 107, 193-200.
lkonomopoulos, J.A, Gorgoulis, v.G., Zacharatos, P.Y., Manolis, EN., Kanavaros, P., Rassidakis, A,
      and Kittas, C. (1999) Multiplex polymerase chain reaction for the detection of mycobacterial
      DNA in cases of tuberculosis and sarcoidosis. Mod. Patholl2, 854--862.
Imaeda, T., Kirchheimer, WF., and Barksdale, L. (1982) DNA isolated from Mycobacterium leprae:
      genome size, base ratio, and homology with other related bacteria as determined by optical DNA-
      DNA reassociation. J. Bacterial. 150,414---417.
Inderlied C.B., Kemper CA, Bermudez L.EM. (1993) The Mycobacterium avium complex. Clin.
      Microbial. Rev. 6,266--310.
Inoue, N., Tamura, K, Kinouchi, Y., Fukuda, Y., Takahashi, S., Ogura, Y., Inohara, N., Nunez, G.,
      Kishi, Y., Koike, Y., Shimosegawa, T., Shimoyama, T. and H1bi, T. (2002). Lack of common
      NOD2 variants in Japanese patients with Crohn's disease. Gastroenterol. 123, 86-91.
Inyaku, K, Hiyama, K, Ishioka, S., Inamizu, T. and Yamakido, M (1993) Rapid detection and
      identification of mycobacteria in sputum samples by nested polymerase chain reaction and
      restriction fragment length polymorphisms of dnaJ heat shock protein gene. Hiroshima J. Med.
      Sci. 42,21-31.
Iredell, J., Whitby, M., and Blacklock, Z. (1992) Mycobacterium marinum infection: epidemiology and
      presentation in Queensland 1971-1990. Med. J. Aust. 157, 596-598.
Iseman, MD. (1996) That's no lady. Chest 109, 1411.
Iseman, MD. (2002) Medical management of pulmoruuy disease caused by Mycobacterium avium
      complex. Clin. Chest. Med. 23, 633--641.
Iseman, MD., Buschman, DL. and Ackerson, L.M. (1991) Pectus excavaturn and scoliosis. Thoracic
      anomalies associated with puhnomuy disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex. Am
      Rev. Respir. Dis. 144,914-916.
Iseman, MD., Corpe, RF., O'Brien, RJ., Rosenzwieg, DY. and Wolinsky, E (1985) Disease due to
      Mycobaderium avium-introcellulare. Chest 87, 139S---149S.
Jacangel0, J.G., Patania, NL., Trussell, RR, Hass, C.N. and Gerba, C. Inactivation ofWaterbome
      Emerging Pathogens by Selected Disinrectants. Denver, AWWA Research Foundation and the
      American Water Works Association, 2002: 1-145.
202                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Jackson, M, Portnoi, D., Catheline, D., Dumai~ L., Rauzier, J., Legrand, P., and Gicquel B. (1997)
       Mycobacterium tuberculosis Des protein: an immunodominant target for the hurnoral response of
       tuberculous patients. Inject Immun. 65, 2883-2889.
Jacob, CN., Henein, S.S., Heurich,AE., and Kamholz, S. (1993) Nontuberculous mycobacterial
       infection offue central nervous system in patients with AIDS. South. Med. J. 86, 638---640.
Jacobs, VR, Golombeck, K, Jonat, W. and Kiechle, M (2002) [Three case reports of breast abscess
       after nipple piercing: underestimated health problems of a fushion phenomenon]. Zentralbl.
       Gynakol. 124, 37~385.
Jakobsen, MB., Alban, L. and Nielsen, S.S. (2000) A cross-sectional study of paratuberculosis in 1155
       Danish dairy cows. Prev. Vet Med. 46,15-27.
Jarlier, V. and Nikaido, H (1994) Mycobacterial cell wall: Structure and role in natural resistance to
       antibiotics. FEMS Microbiol. Lett 123, 11-18.
Jarvis, WR (1991) Nosocomial oufureaks: fue Centers for Disease Control's Hospital Infections
       Progrnm experience, 1980-1990. Epidemiology Branch, Hospital Infections Program. Am. J.
       Med. 91, 101S-I06S.
Jin, B.w., Saito, H., and Yoshii, Z. (1984) Environmental mycobacteria in Korea. 1. Distribution of the
       organisms. Microbiol. ImmtmOl. 28, 667-677.
Johne, H.A. and Fro1hingham, L (1895) Ein eigenthiimlicher Fall von Tuberculose beim Rind
       Deutsche Zeitschr. Tienn. Path. 21,438-454.
Johnson, PDR, Veitch, MGK, Leslie, D.E., Flood, P.E., Hayman, J.A (1996) The emergence of
       Mycobacterium ulcerans infection near Melbourne. Med. J. Aust. 164, 76-78.
Johnson-Ifearnlundu, Y. and Kaneene, J.B (1997) Relationship between soil type and Mycobacterium
      paratuberculosis.JAVMA. 210,1735-1740.
Johnson-lfearuIundu, Y. and Kaneene, J.B. (1999) Distribution and environmental risk fuctors for
      paratuberculosis in dairy cattle henls in Michigan. Am J. Vet. Res. 60, 589-596.
Jones, AR, Bartlett, J., and McConnack, J.G. (1995) Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC)
       osteomyelitis and septic arthritis in an immunocompetent host J. Inject. 30, 59-62.
Joret, J.C and Y. Levi. (1986) Mefuode rapide d'evaluation du cariJone eliminable des eaux par voie
      biologique. Trib. Cebedeau 510,3-9.
Judson, F.N. and Feldman, RA (1974) Mycobacterial skin tests in humans 12 years after infection
       withMycobacteriummarinum.Am Rev. &spiro Dis. 109, 544--547.
Kahana, L.M, Kay, J.M., Yakrus, M and Wasserman, S. (1997) Mycobacterium avium complex
       infection in an immunocompetent young adult related to hot tub exposure. Chest 111, 242-245.
Kahn, E., Anderson, V.M., Greco, M.A., and Magid, M (1995). Pancreatic disorders in pediatric
       acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Hum. Patha!. 26, 765-770.
Kalis, CH., Hesselink, J.W., Barkema, H.w. and Collins, M T. (2000) Culture of strategically pooled
      bovine fecal samples as a method to screen henls fur paratuberculosis. J. Vet. Diagn. Invest. 12,
       547-551.
Kamala, T., Paramasivan, CN., Herbert, D., Venkatesan, P. and Prabhakar, R (1994) Evaluation of
      procedures for isolation of nontuberculous mycobacteria from soil and water. App!. Environ.
       Microbiol. 60,1021-1024.
Kasai, H, Ezaki, T. and Harayarna, S. (2000) Differentiation of phylogenetically related slowly
       growing mycobacteria by their gyrB sequences. J. Clin. Microbiol. 38, 301-308.
Katona, P., Wiener, 1. and Saxena, N. (1992) Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection of an
       automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator. Am Heart J. 124, 138~1381.
                                            References                                           203

Katz, Y.L., Fanner, R, York, J. and Wilson, JD. (2000) Mycobacterium chelonae sepsis associated
     with long-term use of an intravenous catheter for treatment of hyperemesis gravidarum. A case
     report.J. Reprod. Med. 45,581-584.
Kaufinan, AC, Greene, CE., Rakich, P.M., and Weigner, DD. (1995) Trea1ment of localized
     Mycobacterium avium complex infection with clofuzimine and doxycycline in a cat J. Am. Vet.
     Med. Assoc. 207,457--459.
Kaustova J, Olsovsky Z, Kubin M, Zatloukal 0, Pelikan M, Hradil V. (1981) Endemic occurrence of
      Mycobacterium kansasii in water-supply systems. J. Hyg. Epidemial Microbiol. Immwwl. 25,
      24-30.
Kazda, J. The Ecology oflvfycobacteria. Dordrecht, Kluwer, 2000.
Kazda, J., Jrgens, L.M. and Kolk, AH.J. (1990) Acid-fust bacilli found in sphagnum vegetation of
      coastal NOlWaY containing Mycobacterium leprae-specific phenolic glycolipid-II. Int. J. Leprosy
      58,353-357.
Kennedy, T.P. and Weber, Dl. (1994) Nontuberculous mycobacteria An underappreciated cause of
      geriatric lung disease. Am J. Respir. Cnt. CareMed.l49, 1654-1658.
Keswani J. and Frank, J.F. (1998) Thenna1 inactivation of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in milk. J.
     FoodProtection 61, 974-978.
Khermosh, 0., Weintroub, S., Topilsky, M. and Baratz, M. (1979) Mycobacterium abscessus (M
      chelonel) infuction of the knee joint report of two cases following intra-articular injection of
      corticosteroids. Clin. Orthop.140, 162-168.
Khoor, A, Leslie, KO., Tazelaar, HD., Helmers, RA, and Colby, T.Y. (2001) Diffuse pulmonary
      disease caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria in immunocompetent people (hot tub lung). Am.
     J. Clin. Pathol.115, 755-762.
King, AJ., Fairley, J.A and Rasmussen, J.E. (1983) Disseminated cutaneous Mycobacterium marinum
      infection. Arch Dermatol.1l9, 268---270.
Kirschner, RA, Jr., Parker, B.C and Fa\kinharn, J.O., ill. (1992) Epidemiology of infection by
      nontuberculous mycobacteria. X. lvfycobacterium avium. Mycobacterium intracellulare, and
      Mycobacterium scrofolaceum in acid-brown-water swamps ofthe southeastern United states and
      their association with environmental variables. Am Rev. Respir. Dis. 145,271-275.
Kirschner, RA, Jr., Parker, B.C and Fa\kinharn, J.O., ill. (1999) Humic and fulvic acids stimulate the
      growth ofMycobacterium avium. FEMS Microbial Ecol. 30, 327-332.
Kock, ND., Kock, RA, Wambua, J., Kamau, G.I., and Mohan, K (1999) lvfycobacterium avium-
      related epizootic in free-ranging lesser flamingos in Kenya J. Wild!. Dis. 35, 297-300.
Koets, AP., Adugna, G., Janss, L.L.G., van Weering, H.I., Kalis, C.H.J., Wentink, G.H., Rutten,
      V.P.M.G. and Schukken, YK (2000) Genetic variation of susceptibility to lvfycobacterium
      avium subsp. paratuberculosis infection in Dairy Cattle. J. Dairy Sci. 83, 2702-2708.
Kopecky, KE. (1977) Distribution of paratuberculosis in Wisconsin, by soil regions. J. Am. Vet. Med.
     Assn. 130,320----324.
Kourtis, AP., lbegbu, CC, Snitzer, JA, and Nesheim, S.R (1996) Recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis
      due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Clin. Infect Dis. 23, 1194-1195.
Kovacs, J.A, and Masur, H. (2000) Propblyaxis against opportunistic infections in patients with human
      immunodeficiency virus infuction. New Engl. J. Med.342, 1416--1429.
Kramer, M.Hl. and Ford, T.E. (1994) Legionellosis: Ecological fuctors of an environmentally 'new
      disease'. Zbl. Hyg. 195,470--482.
Kressel, AB., Kidd, F. (2001) PseucJo.outbreak of Mycobacterium chelonae and Methylobacterium
      mesophilicum caused by contamination of an automated endoscopy washer. Infect. Control
      Hosp. Epidemial 22,414--418.
Kubo, K, Yamazaki, Y., Masubuchi, T., Takamizawa, A, Yamamoto, H., Koizumi, T., Fujimoto, K,
      Matsuzawa, Y., Honda, T., Hasegawa, M. & Sone, S. (1998) Pulmonary infection with
204                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

       Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare leads to air trapping distal to the small airways. Am J.
      Respir. Crit. Care Med. 158, 979-984.
Kuritsky, IN., Bullen, MG., Broome, c.Y., Silcox, VA, Good, RC. & Wallace, RI, Jr. (1983)
       Sternal wOtUld infections and endocarditis due to organisms of the Mycobacterium fortuitum
       complex. Ann. Intern. Med 98,938-939.
Kuth G., Lamprecht I, and Haase G. (1995) Ce!vicallymphadenitis due to mycobacteria other than
      tuberculosis - an emerging problem in children? J. Otorhinolaryngol. Relat. Spec. 57, 36-38.
Kwong, IS., Munk, P.L., Connell, D.G., and Gianoulis, ME. (1991) Case report 687. Disseminated
       Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare osteomyelitis. Skeletal Radiol. 20, 458--462.
Kyle, I (1992) Crohn's disease in the Northeastern and Northem Isles of Scotland: An epidemiological
      review. Gastroenterol. 103,392-399.
Labombardi, V.J., O'brien, AM, and Kislak, IW. (2002) Pseudo-outbreak of Mycobacterium
      fortuitum due to contaminated ice machines. Am J. Infoct. Control30, 184---186.
Laharie, D., Debeugny, S., Peeters, M, Van Gossum, A, Gower-Rousseau, c., Belaiche, J., Fiasse, R,
      Dupas, J-L., Lerebours, E., Piotte, S., Cortot, A, Venneire, S., Grandbastien, B. and Colombe~ J-
       F. (200 I) Inflammatory bowel disease in spouses and their offSpring. Gastroenterol. 120, 816-
       819.
Lair, N., Cavallini, M, Rindi, L., Iona, E., Rattorini, L. and Ca=lli, C. (1998) Typing of hmnan
       Mycobacterium avium isolates in Italy by IS1245-based restriction fragment length
      polymorphism analysis. J. Clin. Microbio!. 36, 3694-3697.
Lakatos, L., Erdelyi, Z., Mester, G., Pandur, T., Balogh, M, Szipocs, I and Lakatos, L.P. (2002)
      Epidemiology ofCrohn's disease in a County ofWestem Hungary between 1977-2001. Gut. 51,
       A126.
Laurent, IP., Faske, S. and Cangelosi, GA (2002) Characterization of IS999, an unstable genetic
       element in Mycobacterium avium. Gene 294, 249-257.
Laurent, IP., Hauge, KA, Burnside, K, and Cangelosi, GA (2003) Mutational analysis of cell wall
      biosynthesis in Mycobacterium avium J. Bacteriol. 185, 5003-5006.
LeChevallier, M W. Conditions fuvouring colifo= and HPC bacterial growth in drinking-water and on
       water contact surfaces. In: Bar1ram, I, Cotruvo, I, Exner, M., Fricker, C. and Glasmacher, A,
       eds. Heterotrophic Plate Count Measurement in Drinldng Water Sqfoty Management. Geneva,
       World Health Organization, 2003: 177-198
LeChevallier, MW. and Au, KK Water Quality and Drinking-water Treatment: the impact of
       treatment proce~ses on microbial water quality. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2003. In
      press.
LeChevallier, MW., Cawthon CD. and Lee, RG. (1988) Factors promoting survival of bacteria in
       chlorinated water supplies. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 54, 649-654.
LeChevallier, MW., Gullick, R w., Karim, MR, Friedman, M. and Funk, IE. (2003) The potential
       for health risks from intrusion of contaminants into the distnbution systern from pressure
       transients. J. Water and Health 1, 3-14.
LeChevallier, MW., Lowry, C.D., Lee, RG. and Gibbon, D.L. (1993) Examining the Relationship
      between iron corrosion and the disinfection ofbiofilm bacteria. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 85,
       111-123.
LeChevallier, MW. and McFeters, GA (1988) Microbiology of activated carbon. In: McFeters, GA,
       ed. Drinldng Water Microbiology, Progress and Recent Developments. New York, Springer
      Verlag, 1988: 104-119.
                                            References                                           205

LeChevallier, M.w" Norton, C.D., Falkinham, III, 10., Williams, M.D., Taylor, RH, and Cowan,
      H.E. Occurrence and Control of Mycobacteri:um avium Complex. Denver, AWWA Research
      FOlllldation and American Water WOlksAssociation. Denver, 2001: 1-115.
LeChevallier, M.W" Welch, N.J. and Smith, D.B. (1996) Full-scale studies of fuctors related to
      colifonn regrowth in drinking water. Appl. Environ. Microbiol 62,2201-2211.
LeDantec, C., Duguet, I-P., Monteil, A, Dumontier, N., Dubrou, S. and Vincent, V. (2002) Chlorine
      disinfection of atypical mycobacteria isolated from a water distribution system. Appl Environ.
      Microbial. 68, 1025-1031.
LeDantec, c., Duguet, I-P., Montei!, A Dumontier, N., Dubrou, S. and Vincent, V. (2002a)
      Occurrence of mycobacteria in water treatment lines in water distnbution systems. Appl Environ.
      Mzcrobiol68,5318----5325.
Lee, H., Park, H.J. Cho, S.N., Bai, G.H and Kim, S.J. (2000) Species identification of mycobacteria by
      PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism of the rpoB gene. J. Clin. Microbiol 38,2966-
      2971.
Lee, w'l, Kim, TW., Shur,K.B., Kim, B.J., Kook, Y.H., Lee, IH, and Park, I.K (2000a)
      Sporotrichoid dermatosis caused by Mycobacterium abscessus from a public bath. J. Dermatol.
      27, 264--268.
Lemson, P.S., Olsen, S.N., and Larsen, S. (1997) Ocular tuberculosis in a horse. Vet. Rec. 141,651-
      654.
Leoni, E., Legnani, P., Mucc~ M.T. and Pirani. R (1999) Prevalence of mycobacteria in a swimming
      pool environment. J. Appl Microbiol 87, 683---688.
Lesage, S., Zouali, H, Gezard, I-P., Colombel, I-F., Belaiche, I, Ahner, S., Tysk, c., O'Morain, c.,
      Gassull, M., Binder, v., Finkel, Y., Modigliani, R, Gower-Rousseau, c., Macry, I, Merlin, F.,
      Chamaillard, M., Iarillot, A-S., Thomas, G. and Hugot, I-P. (2002) CARDI5IN0D2 mutational
      analysis and genotype-phenotype correlation in 612 patients with intlarnmatory bowel disease.
      Am. J. Hum. Genet. 70, 845---857.
Levy-Frebault, v., Pangon, B., Bure, A, Katlama, c., Marche, c., and David, HL. (1987)
      Mycobacterium simiae and Mycobaderi:um avium-M intracellulare mixed infection in acquired
      immune deficiency syndrome. J. Clin. Microbiol 25 154-157.
Li, Z., Bai, G.H, von Reyn, c.F., Marino, P., Brennan, M.I, Gine, N. and S. L. Morris. (1996) Rapid
      detection of Mycobaderium avium in stool samples from AIDS patients by irruTIllllomagnetic
      PCR J. Clin. Mzcrobiol. 34, 1903--1907.
Li, N., BajoghIi, A, Kubba, A, and Bhawan, I (1999) Identification of mycobacterial DNA in
      cutaneous lesions ofsarcoidosis.J. Cutan. Palhol. 26,271-278.
Lloyd, lB., Whittington, RI, Fitzgibbon, c., and Dobson, R (2001) Presence of Mycobacteri:um
      avium subspecies paratuberculosis in suspensions of ovine trichostrongylid larvae produced in
      fuecal cultures artificially contaminated with the bacterium. Vet. Rec. 148, 261-263.
Lockwood, w'w', Friedman, c., Bus, N., Pierson, c., and Gaynes, R (1989) An outbreak of
      Mycobacterium terrae in clinical specimens associated with a hospital potable water supply. Am.
      Rev. Respir. Dis. 140, 1614-1617.
Loftus, E.Y., Schoenfeld, P. and Sandborn, W.J. (2002) The epidemiology and natural history of
      Crohn's disease in population-based patient cohorts from North America: a systematic review.
      AlimentPharmacol Ther. 16, 51---60
Loftus, E.Y., Si!verstein, MD., Sandborn, W.J., Tremaine, WJ., Harmsen, S. W. and Zinsmeister,
      AR (1998) Crohn's disease in Ohnsted County, Minnesota, 1940-1993: Incidence, Prevalence,
      and Survival. Gastroenterol. 114, 116/-1168.
Lopez Miguel, c., Sicilia, B., Sierra, E., Lopez Zaborras, I, Ambas, F. and Gomollon, F. (1999)
      Incidence of inflannnatory bowel disease in Aragon: outcome of a prospective population-based
      study. Gastroenterol Hepatol22, 323--328.
206                           Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

loW!)', P.w., Beck-Sague, C.M, Bland, LA, Aguero, SM., Arduino, Ml, Minuth, AN., Murray,
     RA, Swenson, 1M and Jarvis, WR (1990) Mycobacterium chelonae infection among patients
     receiving high-flux dialysis in a hemodialysis clinic in California J Infect. Dis. 161, 85-90.
loW!)', P.w., Jarvis, WR, Oberle, AD., Bland, L.A, Silberman, R, Bocchini, lA, Jr., Dean, H.D.,
     Swenson, 1M. & Wallace, Rl, Jr. (1988) Mycobacterium chelonae causing otitis media in an
     ear-nose-and-throatpractice. N Engl. J Med. 319, 978--82.
Maartens, G. (2002) Opportunistic infections associated with HIV infection in Africa. Oral Dis.
     8(SuppL 2), 76-79.
MacGregor, RR, Dreyer, K, Hennan, S., Hocknel~ PK, Nghiern, L., Tevere, V.T. and Williams,
     AL. (1999) Use ofPCR in detection of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) bacteremia:
     sensitivity of the assay and effect of treatment for MAC infection on concentrations of hmnan
     immunodeficiency virus in plasma. J Clin. Microbiol. 37, 90-94.
Mahan, S. and Jolles, PR (1995) MAl osteomyelitis. 18-year scintigraphic follow-up. Clin. Nuc!. Med.
     20,594--598.
Maloney, RK (2002) Cluster of Mycobacterium chelonae keratitis cases following laser in situ
     keratomileusis. Am. J Ophthalmol. 134,298-299.
Maloney, S., Welbe~ S., Daves, B., Adams, K, Becker, S., Bland, L., Arduino, M., Wallace, R, Jr.,
     Zhang, Y., and Buck, G. (1994) Mycobacterium abscessus pseudoinfection traced to an
     automated endoscope washer: utility of epidemiologic and laboratory investigation. J Inject. Dis.
     169, 1166-1169.
Manabe, Y.c. and Bishai, W.R (2000) Latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis- persistence, patience, and
     winning by waiting. Nature Medicine 6,1327-1329.
Mangione, E.1., Huitt, G., Lenaway, D., Beebe, 1, Bailey, A, Figoski, M, Rau, M.P., Albrecht, KD. &
     Yakrus, MA (2001) Nontuberculous mycobacterial disease following hot tub exposure. Emerg.
     Infect. Dis. 7,1039--1042.
Mann, P.c., Montali, Rl, and Bush, M (1982) Mycobacterial osteomyelitis in captive marsupials. J
     Am. Vet. Med.Assoc.181, 1331-1333.
Manning, E.1. and Collins, MT. (2001) Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis: pathogen,
     pathogenesis and diagnosis. Rev. Sci. Tech. 20, 133-150.
Mansfield, KG. and Lackner, AA (1997) Simian immunodeficiency virus-inoculated macaques
     acquire Mycobacterium avium from potable water during AIDS. J Inject Dis. 175, 184-187.
Manzoor, S.B., Lambert, PA, Griffiths, PA, Gill, Ml & Fraise, AP. (1999) Reduced glutaraldehyde
     susceptibility in Mycobacterium chelonae associated with altered cell wall polysaccharides. J
     Antimicrob. Chemother. 43,759--765.
Marchevsky, AM., Damsker, B., Green, S. and Tepper, S. (1985) The clinicopathological spectrum of
     non-tuberculous mycobacterial osteoarticular infections. J Bone Joint Surg. Am. 67, 925-929.
Mrukesich, D.C., Graham, D.Y. and Yoshimura, H.H. (1988) Progress in culture and subculture of
     spheroplasts and fastidious acid-fast bacilli isolated from intestinal tissues. J Clin. Microbiol. 26,
     1600-1603.
Marras, T. K and Daley, C. L. (2002) Epidemiology of hmnan pulmollal)' infection with
     nontuberculous mycobacteria Clin. Chest Med. 23, 553-567.
Marsh, 1, Whittington, R, and Cousins, D. (1999) PCR-restriction endonuclease analysis for
     identification and strain typing of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis and
     Mycobacterium avium subsp. avium based on polymotphisms in IS 1311. Mol. Cell. Probes 13,
     115-126.
                                            References                                           207

Marsollier, L., Robert, R, AubIy, l, Saint Andre, J'p., Kouakou, H., Legras, P., Manceau, AL.,
     Mahaza, C. and Crubonnelle, B. (2002) Aquatic Insects as a Vector for Mycobacterium ulcerans.
     Appl. Environ Microbiol. 68, 4623--4628.
Martin, E.c., Parker, B.C., and FaIkinham, lO., III (1987) Epidemiology of infection by
     nontuberculous mycobacteria VIT. Absence of mycobacteria in southeastern groundwaters. Am
     Rev. Respir. Dis. 136,344-348.
Martin, G. and Schimmel, D. (2000) [Mycobacterium avium infuctions in poultty--a risk fur human
     health ornot?]. Dtsch. Tierarztl. Wochenschr.l07, 53-58.
Mason, 0., Marsh, I.B. and Whittington, Rl (2001) Comparison ofimmunomagnetic bead separation-
     polymerase chain reaction and fuecaI culture for the detection of Mycobacterium avium subsp
     paratuberculosis in sheep fueces. Ausi Vet. J. 79, 497-500.
Matsiota-Bemard, P., Zinzendort; N., Onody, C. and Guenounou, M. (2000) Comparison of
     Clarithromycin-sensitive and Clarithromycin-resistant Mycobacterium avium Strains Isolated
     from AIDS Patients dtuing Therapy Regimens including Clarithromycin. JournalofInfection 40,
     49-54.
Mayberry, IF. and Hitchens, RAN. (1978) Distnbution ofCrohn's disease in Cardiff. Soc. Sci. and
     Med. 12, 137-138.
Mazurek, G.H., Reddy, v., Murphy, D. and Ansari, T. (1996) Detection of Mycobacterium
     tuberculosis in cerebrospinal fluid following immunomagnetic enrichment. J. Clin Microbiol. 34,
     450-453.
Mazurek, G.H., Chin, D.P., Hartman, S., Reddy, V., Horsburgh, C.R., Jr., Green, TA, Yajko, D.M.,
     Hopewell, P.c., Reingold, AL., and Crawfurd, J.T. (1997) Genetic similarity among
     Mycobacterium avium isolates from blood, stoo~ and sputum of persons with AIDS. J. lrifect.
     Dis. 176, 976--983.
McAdam, R Insertion sequences. In: Hatfull, G. and Jacobs, W.R, Jr, eds. The Molecular Genetics of
     the Mycobacteria. Washington, American Society for Microbiology, 2000.
McCarthy, C.M. and Schaefer, lO. (1974) Response of Mycobacterium avium to ultraviolet
     irradiation Appl Microbio!' 28,151-153.
McFadden, J.J., Butcher, P.D., Chiodini, R and Hennon-Taylor. 1 (l987a) Crohn's disease-isolated
     mycobacteria are identical to Mycobacterium paratuberculosis, as detennined by DNA probes
     that distinguish between mycobacterial species. J. Clin. Microbiol. 25, 796--801.
McFadden, JJ., Butcher,P.D., Chiodini,RJ., and Hennon-Taylor,]. (l987b) Detemrination of genome
     size and DNA homology between an unclassified Mycobacterium species isolated from patients
     with Crohn's disease and other mycobacteria J. Gen. Microbio!' 133,211-214.
McGarvey, JA and Bennudez, L.E. (2001) Phenotypic and genomic analyses of the Mycobacterium
     avium complex reveal differences in gastrointestinaI invasion and genomic composition lrifect.
     Immun. 69, 7242-7249.
McNab, WB., Meek, AH., Duncan, JR, Martin, s.w. and Van Dretunel, AA (1991) An
     epidemiological study of paratubercuIosis in daily cattle in Ontario: study design and prevalence
     estimates. Can. J. Vet. Res. 55, 246--251.
Mediel, MJ., Rodriquez, v., Codina, G. and Martin-Casabona, N. (2000) Isolation of mycobacteria
     from frozen fish destined for human constunption. Appl Environ Microbiol. 66,3637-3638.
Merat, S., Malekzadeh, R, Varshosaz, l, Vahedi, H., Sotoudehmanesh, R and Agah, S. (2002)
     Crohn's disease in Iran: A report ofl40 cases. Gut 51, A128.
Merkal, R S. and Cmwford, JA (1979) Heat inactivation of Mycobacterium avium-Mycobacterium
     intracellulare complex organisms in aqueous suspension Appl. Environ Microbiol 38, 827-
     830.
Mery, A and Horan, RF. (2002) Hot tub-related Mycobacterium avium intracellulare pnetunonitis.
     Allergy Asthma Proc. 23, 271-273.
208                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Meyers, H., Brown-Elliott, B.A, Moore, D., Cuny, 1, Truong, c., Zhang, Y., and Wallace RI, Jr.
      (2002). An ou1break of Mycobacterium chelonae infection following liposuction. Clin. Infoct.
      1)~.34, 1500--1507.
Meylan, P.R, Richman, D.D., and Kornbluth, RS. (1990) Characterization and growth in human
      macrophages of Mycobacterium avium complex strains isolated from the blood of patients with
      acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Infect. Imnmn. 58,2564---2568.
Meylan, M., Rings, D.M., Shulaw, w.P., Kowalski, J.J., Bech-Nielsen, S. and Hoifsis, GF. (1996)
      Survival of Mycobacterium paratuberClllos~ and pre8e!Vation of immunoglobulin G in bovine
      colostrum under experimental conditions simulating pasteurization. Am. J. Vet. Res. 57, 1580-
      1585.
Mijandrusic Sincic, B., Vucelic, B., Persic, M. and Stimac, D. (2002) The incidence of the
      in11ammatory bowel disease in Primorsko-Goranska County, Croatia Gut 51, A128.
Mijs, W., de Haas, P., Rossau, R, Van Der Laan, T., Rigouts L., Portaels, F. and van SooJingen, D.
      (2002) Molecular evidence to support a proposal to reseJVe the designation Mycobacterium
      avium subsp. avium for bird-type isolates and 'M avium subsp. homin~su~' for the
      human/porcine type of M avium. Int. J. Syst. Eva!. Microbio!. 52, 1505-1518.
Millar, D., Ford, 1, Sanderson, 1, Withey, S., Tizard, M., Doran, T. and Hermon-Taylor 1 (1996)
      lS900 PCR to detect Mycobacterium paratuberClllos~ in retail supplies of whole pasteurized
      cows' milk in England and Wales. Appl. Environ. Microbial. 62, 3446-3452.
Miller, AI, Bayles, D.O. and Eblen, B. S. (2000) Cold Shock Induction of Thermal Sensitivity in
      L~terio monocytogenes. Appl. Environ. Microbial. 66,4345-4350.
Miller, M.A, Greene, c.E., and Brix, AE. (1995) Disseminated Mycobacterium avium--intracellulare
      complex infection in a miniature schnauzer. J. Am. Anim Hosp. Assoc. 31, 213---216.
Miltner, E.c. and Bermudez, L.E. (2000) Mycobacterium avium grown in Acanthamoeba castellanii is
      protected from the effects of antimicrobials. AntimicrobAgents Chemother. 44, 1990----1994.
Miyamoto, M., Yamaguchi, Y. and Sasatsu, M. (2000) Disinfectant effects of hot water, ultraviolet
      light, silver ions and chlorine on strains of Legionella and nontuberculous mycobacteria
      Microbios 101, 7-13.
Montali, R.J., Bush, M., Cromie, R, Holland, SM., Maslow, IN., Worley, M., Witebsky, F.G, and
      Phillips, TM. (1998) Primary Mycobacterium avium complex infections correlate with lowered
      cellular immune reactivity in Matschie's tree kangaroos (Dendrolagus matschiei). J. Infoct. l)~.
      178,1719---1725.
Montecalvo, M.A, Forester, G, Tsang, A Y., du Moulin, Gc. and Wormser, G.P. (1994) Colonisation
      ofpotable water with Mycobacterium avium complex in homes ofHlV-infected patients. Lancet
      343,1639.
Monteleone, 1., Vavassori, P., Bianconi, L., Monteleone, G.,and Pallone, F. (2002) Immunoregulation
      in the gut: success and fuilures in human disease. Gut 50, 60----64.
Montgomery, SM., Morris, D.L., Pounder, RE and Wakefield, Al (1999) Asian ethnic origin and the
      risk of in11arnmatory bowel disease. Eur. J. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 11, 543-546.
Moreira, AR, Paolicchi, F., Morsella, c., Zumarraga, M., Cataldi, A, Fabiana, B., Aliea, A, Piet, O.
      van SooJingen, D and lsalel, RM. (1999) Distribution of lS900 restriction fragment length
      polymorphism types among animal Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberClllos~ isolates from
      ArgentinaandEurope. Vet. Microbiol. 70,251-259.
Morsczek C, Berger S, and Plum G. 2001. The macrophage-induced gene (mig) of Mycobacterium
      avium encodes a medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A synthetase. Biochim Biaphys. Acta 1521, 59-
      65.
                                             References                                              209

Morse,lW. and Bird, D.w. (1984) Bacteria isolated from lymph nodes ofCalifomia slaughter swine.
     Am. J. Vet. Res. 45,1648-1649.
Moschcowitz, AB. and Wilensky, AO. (1923) Non-specific granulomata of the intestine. Am. J. Med.
     Sci. 166,48--66.
Moss, MT., Sanderson, J.D., Tizard, MLV., Hennon-Taylor, J., El-Zaatari, FAK, Markesich, D.C.
     and Graham, D.Y. (1992) Polymerase chain reaction detection of Mycobacterium
     paratuberculosis and A1ycobacterium avium subsp. silvaticum in long tenn cultures from Crohn's
     disease and control tissues. Gut 33, 12~ 1213.
MukheJjee, S, Petrofsky, M, Yaraei, K, Bennudez, LB., and Cangelosi, GA (2001) The white
     morphotype of Mycobacterium aviwn-intracellulare is common in infected humans and virulent
     in infection models. J.Infoct. Dis. 184, 1480-1484.
Munkholm, P., Langholz, E., Haagen Nielsen, 0., Kreiner, S. and Binder, V. (1992) Incidence and
     prevalence ofCrohn's disease in the county of Copenhagen, 1962-1987: A sixfold increase in
     incidence. Scand. J. Gastroenterol. 27, 6~14.
Murga, R, Stewart P.S., and Daly, D. (1995) Biofilm thickness variability. Riotedmol. Bioeng. 45,
     503--510.
Murillo, J., Torres, J., Bofill, L., Rios-Fabra, A, Irausquin, E., Isturiz, R, Guzman, M, Castro, J.,
     Rubino, L. and Cordido, M (2000) Skin and wound infection by rapidly growing mycobacteria:
     an unexpected complication of liposuction and liposculpture. The Venezuelan Collaborative
     Infectious and Tropical Diseases Study Group. Arch Dennatol. 136, 1347-1352.
Muskens, J., Bakker, D., Boer, J. and Keulen L. (2001) Paratuberculosis in sheep: its possible role in the
     epidemiology ofparatuberculosis in cattle. Vet. Microbio!. 78, 101-109.
Muskens, J., Barkerna, H.w., Russchen, E., van Maanen, K, Schukken, Y.H. and Bakker, D. (2000)
     Prevalence and regional distribution of paratuberculosis in dairy herds in The Netherlands. Vet.
     Microbiol. 77, 253--261.
Nagy G.S. and Rubin RH. (2001) Disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in a kidney
     transplant recipient Transplant Infectious Disease 3,220-230.
Nalaboff; K M, Rozenshtein, A and Kaplan, M. H. (2000) Imaging of Mycobacterium avium-
     intracellulare infection in AIDS patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy: reversal
     syndrome. Am. J. Roentgenoll75, 387-390.
Naser, SA, Hulten, K, Shafran, 1., Graham, D.Y., and El-Zaatari, FA (2000) Specific seroreactivity
     of Crohn's disease patients against p35 and p36 antigens of M avium subsp. paratuberculosis.
      Vet. Microbiol. 77,497-504.
Naser, SA and Schwartz, D. (2000) Isolation of Mycobacterium avium subsp.paratuberculosis from
     breast milk ofCrohn's disease patients. Am. J. Gastroenterol 95, 1094--1095.
Naser, S., Shafi"atl, I., El-Zaatari, F. (1999) Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in Crohn's
     Disease Is Serologically Positive. Clinical and Diagnostic Laboratory Immunology 6, 282.
Naser, SA, Shaftan, 1., Schwartz, D., El-Zaatari, F. and Biggerstaff; J. (2002). In situ identification of
     mycobacteria in Crohn's disease patient tissue using confocal scanning laser microscopy. Mol.
     Cell Probes 16, 41-48.
Nebbia, P., Robino, P., Ferroglio, E., Ross~ L., Meneguz, G. and Rosati, S. (2000) Paratuberculosis in
     red deer (CenJUS elaphus hippelaphus) in the Western Alps. Vet. Res. Commun. 24, 435---443.
Nelson, KG., Griffith, D.E., Brown, BA and Wallace, RJ., Jr. (1998). Results of operation in
     Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare lung disease. Ann. Thorac. Surg. 66, 325-330.
Neumann, M., Schu1ze..RObbecke, R, Hagenau, C. and Behringer, K (1997) Comparison of methods
     for isolation ofmycobacteria from water. Appl. Environ. Microbial. 63, 547-552.
Newport, MJ., Huxley, C.M, Huston, S., Hawrylowicz, C.M, Oostra, BA, Williamson, R and Levin
     M (1996) A mutation in the interferon- -receptor gene and susceptibility to mycobacterial
     infection. New EnglJ. Med.335, 1941-1949.
210                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Ng, v., Zanazzi, G., Timpl, R, Talts, IF., Salzer, lL., Brennan, PJ. and Rambukkana, A (2000) Role
      of the cell wall phenolic glycolipid-l in the peripheral nerve predilection of Mycobacterium
      leprae. Cell 103, 511-524.
Nielsen, KK, and Ahrens, P. (2002) Putative in vitro expressed gene fragments unique to
      Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis. FEMS Microbiol.Lett. 214, 199---203.
Nielsen, S.S., Tharnsborg, S.M., Houe, H. and Bitsch, V. (2000) Bulk-tank milk ELISA antibodies fur
      estimating the prevalence of paratuberculosis in Danish dairy herds. Prev. Vet. Med. 44, 1-7
      (and corrigendum).
Nightingale S.D., Byrd L.T., Southern P.M., Jockush J.D., Cal S.x. and Wynne BA (1992) Incidence
      of Mycobacterium avium intracellulare complex bacteremia in human immunodeficency virus-
      positive patients. J Infoct. Dis. 165, 1082-1085.
NlOSH What you need to know about occupational exposure to metalworkingfluids. DHHS, NIOSH,
      1998 (Publication No. 98-116).
Nolan, c.M., Hashisaki, PA and Dundas, D.F. (1991) An outbreak of soft-tissue infections due to
      Mycobacterium fortuitum associated with electromyography. J Infoct. Dis. 163, 1150-1153.
Norton, c.D., and LeChevallier, MW. (2000) A Pilot study of bacteriological population changes
      through potable treatment and distribution. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 66, 26~276.
Norton, CD., LeChevallier, MW. and FaIkinhan, 10., ill. (2004) Survival ofMycobacterium avium in
      a model distnbution system Wat. Res. 38, 1457-1466.
O'Brien, Rl, Geiter, LJ. & Snider, D.E., Jr. (1987) The epidemiology of nontuberculous
      mycobacterial diseases in the United States. Results from a national survey. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis.
      135, 1007-1014.
O'Grady, D., Flynn, 0., Costello, E., Quigley, F., Gogarty, A, McGuirl<, 1, O'Rourke, 1, and Gibbons,
      N. (2000) Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of Mycobacterium avium isolates
      from animal and human sources. Int. J Tuberc. Lung Dis. 4, 278--281.
O'Reilly, C.E., O'Connor, P.M., Kelly, AL., Beresfurd, T.P. and Murphy, P.M (2000) Use of
      hydrostatic pressure for inactivation of microbial contaminants in cheese. Appl. Environ.
      Microbiol. 66, 4890-4896.
Odiawo, G.O. and Mukurira, 1M. (1988) Avian cerebral tuberculosis. Vet. Rec. 122, 279---280.
Odumeru, 1, Gao, A, Chen, S., Raymond, M. and Mutharia, L. (2001) Use of the bead beater for
      preparation of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis template DNA in milk. Can. J Vet. Res. 65,
      201-205.
Offermann, u., Bodmer, T., Audige, L., and Jemmi, T. (1999) [The prevalence of salmonella, yersinia
      and mycobacteria in slaughtered pigs in Switzerland]. Schweiz. Arch. Tierheilkd. 141, 509---515.
Ogura, Y., Bonen, DK, Inohara, N., Nicolae, D.L., Chen, F.F. , Ramos, R, Britton, H., Moran, T.,
      Karaliuskas, R, Duerr, Rl, Achkar, J-P., Brant, S.R, Bayless, T.M., Kirschner, B.S., Hanauer,
      S.B., Nunez, G. and Cho, lH. (2001) A frameshift mutation in NOD2 associated with
      susceptibility to Crohn's disease. Nature. 411, 603-----(i()6.
Ohse, H., Saito, T., Kadono, K, Hirano, K, Watanabe, S., Nemoto, E., Fukai, S., Yanai, N., Ishii, Y.,
      and Hasegawa, S. (1997) [A case of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome with disseminated
      Mycobacterium avium complex infection in which M avium was isolated from bone marrow].
      Kekknku 72, 73-77.
Oliver, A, Maiz, L., Canton, R, Escobar, H., Baquero, F. and Gomez-Mampaso, E. (2001)
      Nontuberculous mycobacteria in patients with cystic fibrosis. Clin. Infoct. Dis. 32, 129~303.
Olivier, KN. (1998) Nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease. Curr. Opin. Pulm. Med. 4,
      148--153.
                                            References                                            211

Olivier, KN., Weber, DJ., Wallace, RI, Jr., Faiz, AR, Lee, JR., Zhang, Y., Brown-Elliot, B.A,
      Handler, A, Wilsoo, R w., Schechter, M.S., Edwards, L.J., Chakraborti, S. and Knowles, M.R
      (2002) Nontuberculous Mycobacteria: I. Multicenter prevalence study in cystic fibrosis. Am J.
      Respir. erit. CareMed.14, 14.
Olivier, KN., Yankaskas, JR and Knowles, MR (1996) Nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary
      disease in cystic fibrosis. Semin Respir. Infect. 11,272-284.
Olsen, I., WIker, H.G, Johnson, E., Langeggan, H., Reitan, L.J. (2001) Elevated antibody responses in
      patients with Crohn's disease against a 14-kDa secreted protein purified from Mycobacterium
      avium subsp. paratuberculosis. Scand J. Immunol 53, 198-203.
Orhohn, K, Binder, V., Sorensen, T.I., Rasmussen, L.P. and Kyvik, KO. (2000) Concordance of
      inflammatOlY bowel disease among Danish twins. Results of a nationwide study. Scand. J.
       Gastroenterol.35, 1075-1081.
Orhohn, M., Munkhohn, P., Langholz, E., Nielsen, OR., Sorensen, T.I.A, and Binder, V. (1991)
      Familial occurrence ofinflammatOlY bowel disease. N Engl. J. Med. 324, 84--88.
OSHA Legionnaires'Disease. OSHA Technical Manual, 1999 (TED 1-()J5A), Section III, Chapter 7.
Pai, e.G and Khandige, GK (2000) Is Crohn's disease rare in India? Indian J. Gastroenterol. 19,
       17-20
Papanaoum, K, Marshmann, G, Gordon, L.A, Lumb, R, and Gordon, D.L. (1998) Concurrent
      infuction due to Shewanella putrifaciens and Mycobacterium marinum acquired at the beach.
      Australas. J. Dennatol. 39, 92-95.
Parent, L.J., Salam, MM., Appelbaum, P.e. and Dossett, IH. (1995) Disseminated Mycobacterium
      marinum infection and bacteremia in a child with severe combined immunodeficiency. Clin
      Infect. Dis. 21, 1325-1327.
Parker, B.e., Ford, M.A, Gruft, H. and Falkinham, 10., III. (1983) Epidemiology of infuction by
      nontuberculous mycobacteria N. Preferential aerosolization of Mycobacterium intracellulare
      from natural water. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 128, 652--656.
Pavlik, 1, Bartl, I, Dvorska, L., Svastova, P. du Maine, R, Machackova, M. Yayo Ayele, W. and
      Horvathova, A (2000) Epidemiology ofparatuberculosis in wild ruminants studied by restriction
      fragment length polymotphism in the Czech Republic during the period 1995-1998. Vet.
      Microbwl. n,231-251.
Pavlik, 1, Horvathova, A, Dvorska, L., Bartl, I, Svastova, P., Du Maine, R, and Rychlik, I. (1999)
       Standardisation of Restriction Fragment Length Polymotphism for Mycobacterium avium
       subspeciesparatuberculosis.J. Microbiol Meth. 38,155-167.
Pavlik, I., Svastova, P., Bartl, I, Dvorska, L., and Rychlik, I. (2000a). Relationship between IS901 in
      the Mycobacterium avium complex strains isolated from birds, animals, humans, and the
      environment andvimlence forpoultIy. Clin Diagn. LabImmunol. 7, 212-217.
Pearce, L.E., Truong, H.T., Crawford, RA, Yates, GP., Cavaignac, S. and de Lisle, G,W. (2001)
      Effect of turbulent-flow pasteurization on survival of Mycobacterium avium subsp.
      paratuberculosis added to raw milk. Appl. Environ Microbwl. 67, 3964-3969.
Peeters, M., Nevens, H., Baert, F., Hiele, M., De Meyer, A-M., Vlietinck, R and Rutgeerts, P. (1996)
      Familial Aggregation in Crohn's disease: increased age-adjusted risk and concordance in clinical
      characteristics. Gastroenterol. 111,597--603.
Pelletier, P.A, du Moulin, Ge. and Stottmeier, KD. (1988) Mycobacteria in public water supplies:
      comparative resistance to chlorine. Microb. Sci. 5, 147-148.
Pelletier, P.A, Carney, E.M. and duMoulin, Ge. Comparative resistance of Mycobacterium avium
      complex and other nontuberculous mycobacteria to chloramine. Denver, AWWA Annual
      Conference, Water Qual. New Decade, 1991: 47-58.
212                           Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Pernzella, M., Eisen, T., and Brown, E. (1993) Peritonitis associated with disseminated Mycobacterium
       avium complex in an acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patient on chronic ambulatory
       peritoneal dialysis. Am J. Kidney Dis. 21, 319--321.
Peters, M., Muller, c., Rusch-Gerdes, S., Seidel, c., Gobel, u., Pohle, H.D. and Rut: B. (1995)
       Isolation of at)pical mycobacteria from tap water in hospitals and homes: is this a possible source
       of disseminated MAC infection in AIDS patients? J. Infect. 31, 39-44.
Phavichitr, N., Cameron, DJ. and Catto-Smith, A (2003). Increasing incidence ofCrohn's disease in
       Victorian children. J. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 18,329-32.
Phillips, M.S. and von Reyn, C.F. (2001) Nosocomial infections due to nontuberculous mycobacteria
       Clin. Infect. Dis. 33,1363-1374.
Picardeau, M., Bull, TJ. and Vincent, V. (1997). Identification and characterization ofiS-1ike elements
       in Mycobacterium gordonae. FEMS Microbiology Letters 154, 95-102.
Picardeau, M., Prod'Hom, G., Raskine, L., LePennec, M.P. and Vincent, V. (1997a) Genotypic
       characterization of five subspecies ofMycobacterium kansasii J. Clin. MlCrobiol. 35,25-32.
Picardeau, M., Vamerot, A, Rauzier, I, Gicquel, B. and Vincent, V. (1996) Mycobacterium xenopi
       IS1395, a novel insertion sequence expanding the IS256 fumily. Microbiology 142, 2453-2461.
Picardeau, M., and Vincent, V. (1996) Typing of Mycobacterium avium isolates by PCR J. Clin.
       Microbiol. 34, 389--392.
Pillai, SR, Jayarao, BM., Gtnnmo, J.D., Hue, E.C., Tiwari, D., Stabel, IR and Whitlock, RH. (2001)
       Identification and sub-typing of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis and
       Mycobacterium avium subsp avium by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA Vet. Microbiol.
       79,275-284.
Pirofsky, J.G., Huang, c.T., and Waites, KB. (1993) Spinal osteomyelitis due to Mycobacterium
       avium-intracellulare in an elderly man with steroid-induced osteoporosis. Spine 18, 1926---1929.
Plikaytis, B.B., Plikaytis, B.D., Yakrus, MA, Butler, W.R, Woodley, c.L., Silcox, VA and Shinnick
       TM. (1992) Differentiation of slowly growing Mycobacterium species, including
       Mycobacterium tuberculosis, by gene amplification and restriction :fragment length
       polymorphism analysis. J. Clin Microbiol. 30,1815-1822.
Plum, G. and Clark-Curtiss. IE. (1994) Induction of Mycobacterium avium gene expression following
       phagocytosis by human macrophages. Inject. Immun. 62,476--483.
Pombo, D., Woods, M.L., Burgert, SJ., Shumsky, I.B., and Reimer, L.G. (1998) Disseminated
       Mycobacterium avium complex infection presenting as osteomyelitis in a nonnal host. Scand. J.
       Infect. Dis. 30, 622---623.
Pomerantz, M., Denton, J.R, Huitt, GA, Brown, J.M., Powell, LA and Iseman, M.D. (1996)
       Resection of the right middle lobe and lingula for mycobacterial infection. Ann. Thorac. Surg. 62,
       990-993.
Pomerantz, M., Madsen, L., Goble, M. and Iseman, M.D. (1991) Surgical management of resistant
       mycobacterial tuberculosis and other mycobacterial pulmonary infections. Ann. Thorac. Surg. 52,
       1108--1112.
Pond, c.L. and Rush, HG. (1981) Infection of white cameaux pigeons (Columbia livia) with
       Mycobacterium avium. Lab. Anim Sci. 31, 196---199.
Portaels, F., DeMuynck, A and Sylla, M.P. (1988) Selective isolation of mycobacteria from soil: a
       statistical analysis approach. J. Gen. Microbiol. 134,849--855.
Portaels, F., Elsen, P., Guimares-Peres, A, Fonteyne, PA and Meyers, W.M. (1999) Insects in the
       transmission of Mycobacterium ulcerans infection [letter]. Lancet 353,986.
Portaels F, Larsson L, and Jenkins PA (1995) Isolation of Mycobacterium malmoense from the
       environment in Zaire. Tuber. Lung Dis. 76, 160---162.
                                           References                                            213

Portaels, F. and Pa1tyn, SR (1982) Growth of mycobacteria in relation to 1he pH of1he medium. Ann.
      Microbiol. 133,213-221.
Portillo-Gomez, L., Nair, I, Rouse, DA and Morris, S.L. (1995) The absence of genetic markers fur
       streptomycin and rifumpicin resistance in Mycobacterium avium complex strnins. J. Antimicrob.
      Chemother.36, 1049---1053.
Pouprut, P., Coene, M., van Heuverswyn, H., and Cocito, e. (1993) Preparation of a specific RNA
      probe for detection of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis and diagnosis of Johne's disease.
      J.Clin.MlCIVbiol. 31, 2339---2345.
Prakash, UB. (1993). Does 1he bronchoscope propagate infection? Chest 104, 552-559.
Prince, D.S., Peterson, D.D., Steiner, RM., Gottlieb, IE., Scott, R, Israel, HL., Figueroa, W.G. and
      Fish, IE. (1989) Infection wi1h Mycobacterium avium complex in patients wi1hout predisposing
       conditions. N Engl. J. Med. 321, 863-868.
Prinzis, S., Rivoire, B. and Brennan, PJ. (1994) Search for 1he molecular basis of mOlphological
      variation in Mycobacterium avium. Infect. Immun. 62,1946-1951.
Prissick, F.H., and Masson AM. (1957) Yellow-pigmented pafuogenic mycobacteria from cervical
       lymphadenitis. Can. J. Microbiol. 3, 91-100.
Pushker, N., Dada, T., Sony, P., Ray, M., Agarwal, T. & Vajpayee, RB. (2002) Microbial keratitis after
       laser in situ keratomileusis. J. Refract. Surg. 18, 280-286.
Raghuna1han, P.L., Whitney, EA, Tappero, IW., Ashford, D., Bugri, S., Amofuh, G., Asomoa, K,
       Stienestra, E., van der Graaf, w., van der Wert; K, Dobos, S., Kihlstrom, L., and King, e.
       Bruden of Buruli ulcer in Uper Denkyira District, Ghana 1994-2000. Report of 4th WHO
      Advisory Group Meeting on Buruli ulcer. Geneva, World Heal1h Organization, 2001 (Abstract).
       (http://www.who.intlgtb-burulilpublicationslindex.html. Accessed 9/112003. Downloadable
       PDF).
Raju, B. and Schluger, N.W. (2000) Significance of respiratory isolates of Mycobacterium avium
       complex in HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients.Int. J. Irifect. Dis. 4, 134---139.
Ramasoota, P., Chansiripomchai, N., Kallenius, G., Hofiher, SE. and Svenson, S.B. (2001)
       Comparison ofMycobacterium avium complex (MAC) strains from pigs and humans in Sweden
       by random amplified polymOlphic DNA (RAPD) using standardized reagents. Vet. Microbiol.
       78,251-259.
Rambukkana, A, Salzer, IL., Yurchenco, P.D., Toumanen, E.I. (1997) Neural targeting of
       Mycobacterium leprae mediated by 1he G domain of1he Laminin-2 chain. Cell 88, 811----821.
Rastogi, N., Frehel, e., Ryter, A, Ohayon, H., Lesourd, M. and David, H.L. (1981) Multiple drug
       resistance in Mycobacterium avium: is 1he wall architecture responsible fur 1he exclusion of
       antimicrobial agents? Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 20, ~77.
Reasoner, DJ., Blannon, Ie. and Geldreich, EE. (1987) Microbiological characteristics ofthird-fuucet
      point-of-use devices. J. Am. Water Works Assoc. 79,60-66.
Reich, 1M. and Johnson, RE. (1992) Mycobacterium avium complex puhnonary disease presenting as
       an isolated lingular or middle lobe pattern. The Lady Windermere syndrome. Chest 101, 1605-
       1609.
Relief; e.R and Tharp, M.D. (1998) Mycobacterium fortuitum panniculitis in a steroid-<lependent
       as1hmatic patient. J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 39,650-653.
Reviriego, F.I, Moreno, MA and Dominguez, L. (2000) Soil type as a putative risks fuctor of ovine
       andcaprineparatuberculosis seropositivity in Spain.Prev. Vet. Med. 43, 43-51.
Rhodes, M.W., Kator, H., Kotob, S., van Betkum, P., Kaattari, I., Vogelbein, w., Floyd, M.M., Butler,
       W.R, Quinn, ED., Ottinger, e. and Shotts, E. (200 1) A unique Mycobacterium species isolated
       from an epizootic of striped bass (Morone saxatilis).Emerg. If!! Dis. 7, 896---899.
Rickman, O.B., Ryu, IH., Fidler, ME. and Kalra, S. (2002) Hypersensitivity pneumonitis associated
       wi1h Mycobacterium avium complex and hot tub use. Mayo. Clin. Proc. 77, 1233-1237.
214                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Ridgway, H.F., Rigby, MG. and Argo, D.G. (1984) Adhesion of a Mycobacterium sp. to cellulose
      diacetate membranes used in reverse osmosis. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 47, 61--fJ7.
Ridgway, H.F., Rigby, MG. and Argo, D.G. (1985) Bacterial adhesion and fouling of reverse osmosis
      membranes.} Am. Water Works Assoc. 77,97-106.
Riemann, H.P. and Abbas, B. (1983) Diagnosis and Control of Bovine Paratuberculosis (Jolme's
      Disease). Adv. Vet. Sci. and Comp. Medicine. 27, 481-506.
Ringuet, H., Akoua-Koffi, v., Honore, S., Vamerot, A, Vincent, V., Berche, P., Gaillard, J.L. and
      Pierre-Audigier, C (1999) hsp65 sequencing for identification of rapidly growing mycobacteria
      } Clin. Microbiol. 37, 852-857.
Ristola, MA, von Reyn, CF., Arheit, RD., Soini, H., Lumio, J., Ranki, A, BUhler, S., WaddelL R,
      Tosteson, ANA, Falkinham, 10., ill, and Sox, C.R (1999) High rates of disseminated infection
      due to non-tuberculous mycobacteria among AIDS patients in Finland. } Infect. 39, 61--fJ7.
Ritacco, V., Kremer, K, van der Laan, T., Pijnenburg, IE.M, de Haas, P.E.W. and van Soo1ingen, D.
      (1998) Use ofIS901 and 1S1245 inRFLP typing of Mycobacterium avium complex: relatedness
      among serovar reference strains, human and animal isolates. Int. } Tuberc. Lung Dis. 2, 242-
      251.
Roberts, B., and Hirst, R (1997) hrununomagnetic separation and PCR for detection of
      Mycobacterium ulcerans. J. C1in. Micro. 35, 2709-2711.
Robicsek, F., Daugherty, HK, Cook, J.W., Selle, IG., Masters, T.N., OBar, P.R, Fernandez, CR,
      Mauney, cu. and Calhoun, D.M. (1978) Mycobacterium fortuitum epidemics after open-heart
      surgery. J Thorac Cordiovasc Surg 75, 91-96.
Robicsek, F., Daugherty, HK, Cook, IW., Selle, J.G., Masters, T.N., OBar, P.R, Fernandez, C.
      Robicsek, F., Daugherty, HK, Cook, JW., Selle, IS., Masters, T.N., OBar, P.R, Fernandez,
      CR, Groover, C.D., Mauney, c.u. and Calhoun, D.c. (1977) Mycobacterium fortuitum
      epidemics after open heart surgery. Coil Works Cordiopulm Dis. 21, 95-102.
Robicsek, F., Hoffinan, P.C, Masters, T.N., Daugherty, RK, Cook, J.w., Selle, IG., Mauney, cu.
      and Hinson, P. (1988) Rapidly growing nontuberculous mycobacteria: a new enemy of the
      cardiac surgeon. Ann. Thorac. Surg. 46, 703-710.
Robinson, RC., Phillips, P.R, Stevens, G., and Storm, PA (1989) An outbreak of Mycobacterium
      bovis infection in fallow deer (Dama dama). Aust. Vet. J. 66, 195-197.
Rochelle, P. Environmental Molecular Microbiology: Protocols and Applications. Wymondham,
      Horizon Press, 2001.
Rodgers, M.R, Backstone, BJ., Reyers, AL. and Covert, T.C (1999) Colonization of point-of-use
      water filters by silver resistant non-tuberculous mycobacteria} Clin. Pathol. 52,629.
Rodriguez-Gancedo, MB., Rodriguez-Gonzalez, T., Vague, G., Valero-Gui11en, P.L. and Segovia-
      Hernandez, M (2001) Mycobacterium peregrinum bacteremia in an immunocompromised
      patient with a Hickman catheter. Eur.} Clin. MlCrobiol Infect. Dis. 20, 589-590.
Rogall T, Wolters J, Flohr T, and Bottger E.C. (1990) Towards a phylogeny and definition of species at
      the molecular level within the genus Mycobacterium. Int } Syst. Bacterial. 40, 323-330.
Roholl, PJ., Herrewegh, A and van Soolingen, D. (2002) Positive 1S9OO in situ hybridization signals as
      evidence fur role ofMycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in etiology ofCrolm's disease.
      } Clin. Microbiol. 40, 3112-3113.
Roiz, M.P., Palenque, E, Guerrero, C and Garcia, MJ. (1995) Use of restriction fragment length
      polymorphism as a genetic matker for typing Mycobacterium avium strains.} Clin. Microbiol.
      33,1389-1391.
Rojas-Espinosa, O. and Lovik, M (2001) Mycobacterium leprae and Mycobacterium lepraermrrium
      infections in domestic and wild animals. Rev. Sci. Tech. 20, 219-251.
                                           References                                          215

Romanus, v., Hallander, H.a., Wahlen, P., Olinder-Nielsen, AM., Magnusson, P H., Juhlin, I. (1995)
      At:)pical mycobacteria in extrapulmomuy disease among children. Incidence in Sweden from
      1969 to 1990, related to changing BCG-vaccination coverage. Tuber. Lung. Dis. 76, 300--310.
Rose, C.S., Martyny, 1.W., Newman, L.S., Milton, DK, King, T.E., Jr., Beebe, JL., McCammon, lB.,
      Hoffinan, RE. and Kreiss, K (1998) ''Lifeguard Ltmg": endemic granulomatous pneumonitis in
      an indoor swimming pool. Am. J. Publ Hlth. 88, 1795-1800.
Rose, 1.E. and Grimes, D.J. Reevaluation ofmicrobial water quality: poweifitl new toolsfor detection
      and risk assessment. Washington, American Academy of Microbiology, 2001
Rose, 1.DR, Roberts, GM., Williams, G, Maybeny, 1.F. and Rhodes, 1. (1988) Cardiff Crobn's
      disease jubilee: the incidence over 50 years. Gut 29,346-351.
Rosenzweig, D.Y. (1979) Pulmomuy mycobacterial infections due to Mycobacterium intracellulare-
      avium complex. Clinical features and course in 100 consecutive cases. Chest 75, 115-119.
Ross, B.C., Johnson, P.D., Oppedisano, F., Marino, L., Sievers, A, Stinear, T., Hayman, 1.A, Veitch,
      M.G and Robins-Browne, RM. (1997) Detection of Mycobacterium ulcerans in environmental
      samples during an ou1break ofulcerative disease. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63,4135--4138.
Ross, B.C., Marino, L., Oppedisano, F., Edwards, R, Robins-Browne, RM. and Johnson, P.D. (1997a)
      Development of a PCR assay for rapid diagnosis of Mycobacterium ulcerans infection. J. Clin.
      Microbiol.35,1696--1700.
Roth, A, Fischer, M., Hamid, M.E., Michalke, S., Ludwig, W. and Mauch, H. (1998) Differentiation
      ofphylogeneticalIy related slowly growing mycobacteria based on 16S-23S rRNA gene internal
      transcnbed spacer sequences. J. Clin. Microbiol.36, 139----147.
Rotman, DA, Blauvelt, A and Kerdel, FA (1993) Widespread primary cutaneous infection with
      Mycobacteriumfortuitum. Int. J. Dermato!' 32, 512-514.
Rotstein, AH. and Stuckey, S.L. (1999) Mycobacterium avium complex spinal epidural abscess in an
      HlV patient. Australas. Radiol. 43, 554--557.
Rowan, N.J., MacGregor, S.J., Anderson, 1.G, Cameron, D. and Farish, O. (2001) Inactivation of
      Mycobacterium paratuberculosis by pulsed electric fields. Appl. Environ. Microbiol 67, 2833-
      2836.
Roy, V. and WeisdorI; D. (1997) Mycobacterial infections following bone marrow transplantation: a
      20 year retrospective review. Bone Marrow Transplantation 19,467--470.
Rubin, G'p., Htmgin, AP., Kelly, P .J. and Ling, 1. (2000) InflammatOlY bowel disease: epidemiology
      and management in an English general practice population. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 14,
      1553-1559.
Ruiz, V. (1989) Crohn's disease in Galicia, Spain. Scand J. Gastroenterol. 24 (suppI170), 29----31.
Rulong, S., Agua, AP., da Silva, PP., and da Silva, M.T. (1991) Intramacrophagic Mycobacterium
      intracellulare bacilli are coated by a multiple lamellar structure: ~ fracture analysis of
      infected mouse liver. Infec. Immun. 59, 3895-3902.
Russell, AD. (1996) Activity ofbiocides against mycobacteria Soc. Appl Bacteriol Symp. Ser.25,
      87S-101S.
Russell, EM., Starr, M., Hayman, 1., Curtis, N. and Johnson, P.D. (2002) Mycobacterium ulcerans
      infection diagnosed by polymerase chain reaction. J. Paed. ChildHealth 38,311-314.
Ryan, P., Bennett, M.w., Aarons, S., Lee, G., Collins, JK, O'Sullivan, Gc., O'Connell, 1. and
      Shanahan. E (2002) PCR detection of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in Crohn's disease
      granulomas isolated by laser capture microdissection. Gut 51, 665-670.
Safranek, T.J., Jarvis, WR, Carson, LA, Cusick, LB., Bland, LA, Swenson, 1.M. and Silcox, VA
      (1987). Mycobacterium chelonae wotmd infections after plastic surgery employing contaminated
      gentian violet skin-marking solution. N Engl. J. Med. 317, 197-20 I.
Saito, H., Murakami, K, Ishii, N., and Kwon, HH. (2000) [Isolation of Mycobacterium avium
      complex from the "24-hour bath'1- Kekkaku 75, 19----25.
216                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Saito H, and Tsukamura M. (1976) Mycobacterium intracellulare from public bath water. Jpn. J.
      MICrobiol. 20, 561-563.
Sanderson, ID., Moss, M.T., Tizard, ML.V. and Hennon-Taylor. 1 (1992) Mycobacterium
     paratuberculosis DNA in Crohn's disease tissue. Gut 33, 8~96.
Sandler, RS., Everhart, IE., Donowitz, M, Adams, E., Cronin, K, Goodman, c., Gennnen, E., Shah,
      S., Avdic, A and Rubin, R (2002) The burden of selected digestive diseases in the United States.
      Gastroenterol. 122, 1500-151l.
Sanford, S.E., Rehmtulla, AI, and Josephson, GK (1994) Tuberculosis in funned rheas (Rhea
     americana). Avian Dis. 38, 193-196.
Sanger, IR, Stampfl, DA and Franson, TR (1987) Recurrent granulomatous synovitis due to
     Mycobacterium kansasii in a renal transplant recipient J. Hand Surg. [Am] 12, 436----44l.
Sato,Y., Tanmra,K., and Seita,M. (1992) Multiple osteomyelitis due to Mycobacterium avium with no
     pulmonatypresentation in a patient of sarcoidosis. Intern. Med. 31, 489--492.
Sawc=ko, A, Sandhu, BK, Logan, RF.A, Jenkins, H., Taylor, CJ., Mian, S. and Lynn, R (2001)
     Prospective survey of childhood inflannnatory bowel disease in the British Isles. Lancet 357,
      1093-1094.
Schaad u.B., Votteler T., McCracken G., Nelson ID. (1979) Management of atypical mycobacterial
      lymphadenitis in childhood: A review based on 380 cases. J. Pedi11tr. 95, 356--360.
Sche1bL P. and Gerlach, G-F. (1997) Differentiation of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis isolates by
     rDNA-spacer analysis and random amplified polymotphic DNA patterns. Vet. MlCrobiol. 51,
      151-158.
Schelonka, RL., Ascher, D.P., McMahon, D.P., Drehner, D.M and Kuskie, MR (1994) Catheter-
     related sepsis caused by Mycobacterium avium complex. Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal
     13,236--238.
Schlnsky, MF., McNeil, MM, Whitney, AM, Steigerwalt, AG., Lasker, BA, Floyd, M.M., Hogg,
     G.G., Brenner, DJ. and Brown, 1M (2000) Mycobacterium septicum sp. nov., a new rapidly
     growing species associated with catheter-related bacteraemia Int. J. Syst. Eval. MlCrObiol. SO,
     575-581.
Schlesinger, L.S., Bellinger-Kawahara, C.J., Payne, NR and HOlWitz, MA (1990) Phagocytosis of
     Mycobacterium tuberculosis is mediated by human monocyte complement receptors and
     complelllent component C3. J. Imrmmol. 144,2771-2780.
Schlesinger, L.S and HOlWitz, MA (1991) Phagocytosis of Mycobacterium leprae by human
     monocyte-derived macrophages is mediated by complelllent receptors CR1 (CD35), CR3
     (CDllb/CD18) and CR4 (CDllclCD18) and interferon-ganuna inactivation inhibits
     complelllent receptor function and phagocytosis of this bacterium. J. Immunol. 147, 1983-1994.
Schoenen, D. Microbial growth due to materials used in drinking water systems. In: Rehm, HJ. and
     Reed, G. eds. Biotechnology. VCH Verlagsgesellschaft, Weinheim, 1986 (VoL 8).
Schoolnik, GK (2002) Functional and comparative genomics of pathogenic bacteria Curro Opin.
     Microbiol. 5, 20-26.
Schoon, HA, Schoon, D., KitpaL G., Richter, E., Gerdes, 1, Weiss, R, and Dressen, W. (1993)
     Enzootic Mycobaderium avium infection in captive Parma wallabies (Macropus panna) with
     unusual spinal cord manifestations. J. Camp Pathol. 108,311-316.
Schulze-Robbecke, R and Buchhohz, K (1992) Heat susceptibility of aquatic mycobacteria Appl.
     Environ. Microbial. 58,1869-1873.
Schulze-Robbecke, R and Fischeder, R (1989) Mycobacteria in biofilms. Zentralbl. Hyg. Umweltmed.
      188, 385-390.
                                              References                                               217

Schulze-Robbecke, R, Feldmann, C, Fischeder, R, Janning, B., Exner, M and Wahl, G. (1995)
      Dental units: an environmental study of sources of potentially pathogenic mycobacteria Tuber.
      LWlg. Dis. 76,318-323.
Schulze-Robbecke, R, Janning, B, and Fischeder, R (1992) Occurrence of mycobacteria in biofilm
      samples. Tuber. LWlgDis. 73, 141-144.
Schulze-Robbecke, R, Weber, A and Fischeder, R (1991) Comparison of decontamination methods
      for the isolation of mycobacteria from drinking water samples. J. Microbia!. Meth. 14, 177-183.
Schwartz, D., Shafran, 1., Romero, C, PiromaIli, C, Biggerstaff, l, Naser, N., Chamberlin, W. and
      Naser, SA (2000) Use of short-tenn culture for identification of Mycobacterium avtum
      subspparatuberculosis in tissue from Crohn's disease patients. Clin Microbio!. Infect. 6, 303-
      307.
Secm, LA, Mum, M, Tanda, F., Lissia, A, Solinas, A, Fadda, G., and S. Zanetti. (2001) Identification
      of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in biopsy specimens from patients with
      Crohn's disease identified by in situ hybridlzation. J. Clin. Microbio!. 39, 4514--4517.
Selby, w., Crotty, B., Florin, T., and Pavli, P. (2001) Combination anti-paratuberculosis therapy with
      c1arithromycin, rifubutin and c10fuzimine in the treatment ofCrohn's disease. A preliminary report
      on the Australian multicentre trial. J. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 16(Suppl), A8.
Seo, K Y., Lee, lB., Lee, K, Kim, MJ., Choi, KR and Kim, EK (2002) Non-tuberculous
      mycobacterial keratitis at the interfuce after laser in situ keratomileusis. J. R4i'act. Surg. 18, 81-
      85.
Shackelford, Cc. and Reed, W M. (1989). Disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection in a dog. J.
       Vet. Diagn. Invest 1,273-275.
Shafran, L, Kugler, L., El-Zaatari, FAK, and Sandoval, l (2002) Open clinical trial ofrifubutin and
      clarithromycin therapy in Crohn's disease. Digest. Liver Dis. 34, 22-28.
Shanahan, F. (1998) Enteric neuropathophysiology and inflammatory bowel disease.
      Neurogastroenterol Mot. 10, 185--187.
Shanahan, F. (2002) Crohn's disease. Lancet 359, 62~9.
Shane, S.M, Camus, A, Strain, M.G., Thoen, CD., and Tully, T.N. (1993) Tuberculosis in
      commercial emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae). Avian Dis. 37, 1172-1176.
Shelton, B.G., Flanders, WD. and Monis, GK (1999) Mycobacterium sp. as a possible cause of
      hypersensitivity pneumonitis in machine workers. Emerg. Inject. Dis. 5,270---273.
Sheppard, D.C and Sullam, P.M (1997) Primary septic arthritis and osteomyelitis due to
      Mycobacterium avium complex in a patient with AIDS. Clin Inject. Dis. 25, 925--926.
Shimoji, Y., Ng, v., Matsumura, K, Fischetti, V A, and Rambukkana, A (1999) A 21-kDa surfuce
      protein of Mycobacterium leprae binds peripheral nerve laminin-2 and mediates Schwann cell
      invasion. Proc. Nat!. Acad. Sci. USA 96, 9857-9862.
Shiraishi, Y., Nakajima, Y., Takasuna, K, Hanaoka, T., Katsuragi, N. and Konno, H. (2002) Surgery
      for Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease in the c1arithromycin era Eur. J. Cardiathorac.
      Surg. 21, 314--318.
Shivananda, S., Lennard-Jones, l, Logan, R, Fear, N., Price, A, Carpenter, L., van Blankenstein, M
      and the EC-IBD Study Group. (1996) Incidence of inflammatory bowel disease across Europe: is
      there a difference between north and south ? Results of the European collaborative study on
      inflammatory bowel disease (EC-IBD). Gut 39, 69~97.
Sills, RC, Mullaney, T.P., Stickle, RL., Darien, BJ., and Brown, CM (1990). Bilateral
      granulomatous guttural pouch infuction due to Mycobacterium avium complex in a horse. Vet.
      PathoI.27,133-135.
Silva, MT., Portaels, F. and Macedo, P.M (1989) New data on the ultrastructure of the membrane of
      Mycobaderium leprae. Int. J.Leprosy and Other Myco. Dis. 57,54--64.
218                             Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Skriwan, c., Fajardo, M., Hagele, S., Hom, M., Wagner, M., Michel, R, Krohne, G., Schleicher, M.,
      Hacker, J., and Steinert, M. (2002) Various bacterial pailiogens and symbionts infect the amoeba
      Dictyostelium discoideum. Int J. Med. Microbiol. 291, 615---{)24.
Slosarek, M., Kubin, M., and Pokorny, J. (1994) Water as a possible fuctor of transmission in
      mycobacterial infections. Cent. Ew. J. Public Health 2, 1O~105.
Slutsky, AM., Arbeit, RD., Barber, T.W., Rich, J., von Reyn, C.F., Pieciak, w., Barlow, MA and
      Maslow, J.N. (1994) Polyclonal infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex in patients with
      AIDS detected by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis of sequential clinical isolates. J. Clin.
      Microbiol. 32, 177~1778.
Smith, o.s., Lindholm-Levy, P., Huitt, GA, Heifets, L.B. and Cook, J.L. (2000) Mycobacterium
      terrae: case reports, literature review, and in vitro antibiotic susceptibility testing. Clin. Infect. Dis.
      30,444-453.
Smole, S.c., McAleese, F., Ngampasutadol, J., Von Reyn, C.F. and Arbeit, RD. (2002) Clinical and
      epidemiological correlates of genotypes within the Mycobacterium avium complex defined by
      restriction and sequence analysis ofhsp65. J. Clin. Microbiol. 40, 3374-3380.
Sniadack, o.H, Ostrofi; S.M., Karlix, M.A, Smithwick, R w., Schwartz, B., Sprauer, M.A, Silcox,
      V.. and Good, RC. (1993) A nosocomial pseudo-outbreak of Mycobacterium xenopi due to a
      contaminated potable water supply: lessons in prevention. Infect. Control Hosp. Epidemiol. 14,
      636---641.
Sobsey, M.D., Dufour, AP., Gerba, c.P., LeChevallier, M.W. and Payment, P. (1993) Using a
      conceptual framework for assessing risks to health from microbes in drinking water. J. Amer.
      Water Works Assoc. 85, 44--48.
Soderholm, J.D., Olaison, G., Lindberg, E., Hannestad, u., Vindels, A, Tysk, c., Janerot, G., and
      Sjodahl, R (1999) Different intestinal permeability patterns in relatives and spouses of patients
      with Crohn's disease: an inherited defect in mucosal defence? Gut 44, 96--100.
Solomon, A, Karp, c.L., Miller, D., Dubovy, S.R, Huang, AJ. and Culbertson, w.w. (2001)
      Mycobacterium interface keratitis after laser in situ keratomileusis. Ophthalmology 108, 2201-
      2208.
Sonnenberg, A, McCarty, DJ. and Jacobsen, SJ. (1991) Geographic variation of inflammatmy bowel
      disease within the United States. Gastroenterol.100, 143-149.
Soriano, F., Rodriguez-Tudela, J.L., Gomez-Garces, J.L. and Velo, M. (1989) Two possibly related
      cases of Mycobacterium fortuitum peritonitis associated with continuous ambulatoty peritoneal
      dialysis. Eur. J. Clin. Microbial. Infect. Dis. 8, 895-897.
Soto, L.E., Bobadilla, M., Villalobos, Y., Sifuentes, J., Avelar, J., Arrieta, M., and Ponce, D.L. (1991)
      Post-surgical nasal cellulitis outbreak due to Mycobacterium chelonae. J. Hosp. Infect 19, 99-
      106.
Speight, E.L. and Williams, HC. (1997) Fish tank granuloma in a 14-month-old girl. Pediatr.
      Dermatol. 14,209-212.
Stabel, J.R, Steadham, E.M. and Bolin, CA (1997) Heat Inactivation of Mycobacterium
     paratuberculosis in raw milk: are current pasteurization conditions effective? Appl. Environ.
      MICrobial. 63,4975-4977.
Starke, J.R, and Correa A (1995) Management of mycobacterial infection and disease in children.
      Pediatr. Infect. Dis. J. 14,455-470.
Steinert, M., Birkness, K., White, E., Fields, B. and Quinn, F. (1998) Mycobacterium avium bacilli
      grow saprozoically in coculture with Acanthamoeba polyphaga and survive within cyst walls.
      Appl. Environ. M/CYObiol. 64, 2256--2261.
                                           References                                           219

Stender, H., Llllld, K, Petersen, KH., Rasmussen, O.F., Hongmanee, P., Miomer, H. and Godtfredsen,
      SE. (1999) Fluorescence in situ hybridization assay using peptide nucleic acid probes for
      differentiation between tuberculous and nontuberculous mycobacterium species in smears of
      mycobacterium cultures. J Clin. Microbiol. 37,2760--2765.
Stender, H., Mollerup, TA., Llllld, K, Petersen, KH., Hongmanee, P. and Godtfredsen, S.E. (l999a)
      Direct detection and identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in smear-positive sputlnn
      samples by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using peptide nucleic acid (PNA) probes.
      Int. J Tuberc Lung Dis. 3, 83~37.
Stevenson, K, Hughes, V M., De Juan, L., Inglis, N.F., Wright, F. and ShaIp, 1.M. (2002) Molecular
      characterization of pigmented and nonpigmented isolates of Mycobacterium avium subsp.
     paratuberculosis.J Clin. MlCrobiol.40, 1798---1804.
Stewart, P.S. (1994) Biofilm accumulation model that predicts antibiotic resistance of Pseudomonas
      aentginosa biofilms. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 38, 1052-1058.
Stine, TM., Harris, AA, Levin, S., Rivera, N., and Kaplan, RL. (1987) A pseudoepidemic due to
      atypical mycobacteria in a hospital water supply. JAMA 258, 809---811.
Stinear, T., Davies, J-K, Jenkin, GA., Hayman, JA., Oppedisano, F. and Johnson, P.D. (2000)
      Identification ofMycobacterium ulcerans in the environment from regions in Southeast Australia
      in which it is endemic with sequence capture-PCR. Appl Environ. Microbiol 66,3206-3213.
Stinear, T., Davies, J-K, Jenkin, GA., Portaels, F., Ross, B.C., Oppedisano, F., Purcell, M., Hayman,
      1.A and Johnson, P.DR (2000a) A simple PCR method for rapid genotype analysis of
      Mycobacterium ulcerans. 1. Clin. Microbio!. 38, 1482-1487.
Stinear, T., Jenkin, GA., Johnson, P.DR, and Davies, J-K (2000b) Comparative genetic analysis of
      Mycobacterium ulcerans and Mycobacterium marinum reveals evidence of recent divergence. J
      Bacterial. 182, 6322----{i330.
Stinear, T., Johnson, P.DR and Davies, J-K Direct Detection of Mycobacteria in the Environment
      with Sequence Capture PCR In: Rochelle, P. ed. Environmental Molecular Microbiology:
      Protocols and Applications. Wymondham, Horizon Press, 200 1: 55----{i2.
Stinear, T., Ross, B.C., Davies, J-K, Marino, L., Robins-Browne, RM., Oppedisano, F., Sievers, A,
      Johnson, P.DR (1999) Identification and characterization of IS2404 and IS2606: two distinct
      repeated sequences for detection of Mycobacterium ulcerans by PCR J Clin. Microbiol. 37,
       10 18---1023.
Stommenger, B., Stevenson, K, and Gerlach, G-F. (2001) Isolation and diagnostic potential of
      ISMav2, a novel insertion sequence-like element from Mycobacterium avium subspecies
     paratuberculosis. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 196, 31-::37.
S1rahl, E.D., Gillaspy, G.E., and Falkinham, lO., III (2001) Fluorescent acid-fast microscopy for
      measuring phagocytosis of Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and
      Mycobacterium scrofolaceum by Tetrahymena pyriformis and their intracellular growth. Appl.
      Environ. Microbial 67,4432--4439.
Stratmann, 1., Strommenger, B., Stevenson, K and Gerlach, G-F. (2002) Development of a peptide-
      mediated capture PCR for detection of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in milk. J
      Clin. Microbiol. 40, 4244-4250.
Straus, w.L., Ostroff; S.M., Jemigan, D.B., Kiehn, T.E., Sordillo, EM., Armstrong, D., Boone, N.,
      Schneider, N., Kilburn, 1.0., Silcox, VA. LaBombardi, V. and Good, RC. (1994) Clinical and
      epidemiologic characteristics of Mycobacterium haemophilum, an emerging pathogen in
      irnmllllOCOmpromiSed patients. Ann. Intern. Med. 120, 118---125.
Streeter, RN., HofiBis, GF., Bech-Nielsen, S., Shulaw, W.P. and Rings, D.M. (1995) Isolation of
      Mycobacterium paratuberculosis from colostrum and milk of subclinically infected cows. Am J
       Vet. Res. 56, 1322-1324.
220                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Sturgill-Koszycki, S., Schlesinger, P.H, Chakraborty, P., Haddix, P.L., Collins, H.L., Fok, AK, Allen,
      RD., Gluck, S.L., Heuser, J. and Russell, D.G. (1994) Lack of acidification in Mycobacterium
      phagosomes produced by exclusion of the vesicular proton ATPase. Science 263, 678-<J81.
SufiYs, P.N., da Silva Rocha, A, de Oliveira, M., Campos, c.E., Barreto, AM., Portaels, F., Rigouts,
      L., Wouters, G., Jannes, G., van Reybroeck, G., Mijs, W and Vanderborght, B. (2001) Rapid
      identification of Mycobacteria to the species level using INNO- LiPA Mycobacteria, a reverse
      hybridization assay. J Clin. Microbiol. 39, 4477----4482.
Sugita, Y., Ishii, N., Katsuno, M., Yamada, R, and Nakajima, H. (2000) Familial cluster of cutaneous
      Mycobacterium avium infection resulting from use of a circulating, constantly heated bath water
      system. Br. J Dermatol. 142,789-793.
Sung, N. and Collins, M.T. (1998) Thermal tolerance of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. Appl.
      Environ. MlCrobiol. 64,999-1005.
Sung, N. and Collins, M.T. (2003) Variation in resistance of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis to acid
      environments as a function of culture medium. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 69,6833---6840.
Supply, P., Mazars, E., Lesjean, S., Vincent, V., Gicquel, B., and Locht, C. (2000) Variable human
      minisatellite-like regions in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome. Mol. Microbiol. 36, 762~
      771.
Suskind, D.L., Handler, S.D., Tom, LW.C., Potsic, WP., and Wetmore, RF. (1997) Nontubercu1ous
      mycobacterial cervical adenitis. Clin. Pediatr. 36, 403-409.
Sutherland, G.E., Lauwasser, M., NcNeely, DJ. and Shands, J.W, Jr. (1980) Heat trealment fur certain
      chronic granulomatous skin infections. South. Med.l 73, 1564-1565.
Swarz, RD., Naai, D., Vogel, C.W and Yeager, H, Jr. (1988) Differences in uptake of mycobacteria
      by human monocytes: a role for complement. Infect. Immun. 56: 2223~2227.
Sweeney, R W, Whitlock, RH and Rosenberger, AE. (1992) Mycobacterium paratuberculosis
      cultured from milk and supramammary lymph nodes of infected asymptomatic cows. J Clin.
      Microbiol. 30, 166---171.
Syed, AU., Hussain, R, Bhat, AN., al Rasheed, M., al Qethami, H, al Faraidi, Y. and al Fagih, M.R
      (1997) Mediastinitis due to Mycooocterium fortuitum infection following Fontan operation in a
      chlldsamd Cardiovasc.J 31,31l~313.
Szewzyk, U. Szewzyk, R, Manz, W and Schleifer, KH (2000) Microbiological safety of drinking
      water. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 54, 81~127.
Tanaka, M., Matsui, H, and Tsuji, H (1993) Atypical mycobacterium osteomyelitis of the fibula Int.
      Orthop.17,48--50.
Taylor, RH, Falkinham, J.O., IlI, Norton, c.D., and LeChevallier, M W (2000) Chlorine, chloramine,
      chlorine dioxide, and owne susceptibility of Mycobacterium avium. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
      66, 1702~1705.
Taylor, TK, Wilks, C.R and McQueen, D.S. (1981) Isolation of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis
      from the milk ofa cow with Johne's disease. Vet. Record. 109, 532~533.
Tchomobay, AM, Oaudy, AL., Perrot, J.L., Levigne, V. and Denis, M. (1992) Fatal disseminated
      Mycobacterium marinum infection. Int. J Dermatol 31,286---287.
Tell, L.A, Woods, L., and Cromie, RL. (2001) Mycobacteriosis in birds. Rev. Sci. Tech. 20, 180-
      203.
Tereletsky, MJ. and Barrow, WW. (1983) Postphagocytic detection of glycopeptidolipids associated
      with the superficial L1 layer of Mycobacterium intracellulare. Infec. Immun. 41, 1312~1321.
TIrieny, D., Vincent, V., Clement, F. and Guesdon, J.L. (1993) Isolation of specific DNA fragments of
      Mycobacterium avium and their possible use in diagnosis. J Clin. Microbiol. 31, 1048--1054.
                                              References                                               221

Thoen, CO., Himes, EM. and Barrett, RE. (1977) Mycobacteri:um avium serotype 1 infuction in a
      sandhill crane (Gms canadensis).J. Wildl. Dis. 13, ~2.
Thofem, E., Schoenen, D. and Tuschewitzki, GJ. (1987) Microbial surface colonization and
      disinfection problems. Qlfentl Gesundh.-wes. 49(Suppl.), 14-20.
Thomas, GA, Swift, o.L., Green, 1.T., Newcombe, Ro., Braniff-Mathews, C, Rhodes, 1., Wilkinson,
      S., Strohmeyer, G., and Kreuzpainter, 0. (1998) Controlled trial of antituberculous chemotherapy
      in Crohn's disease: a five year follow up study. Gut 42,497-500.
Thorel, M.F., Huchzenneyer, H.F., and Miche~ AL. (2001). Mycobacteri:um avium and
      Mycobacterium intracellulare infection in mammals. Rev. Sci Tech. 20,204-218.
Thorel, M.F., Moreau, R, 0laIvin, M. and Ebiou, D. (1991) Debusquement enzymatique des
      mycobacteries dans les millieaux naturels. C R Soc. BioI. 185,331-337.
Tizard, M.L.V., Bull, T., Millar, D., Doran, T., Martin, H., Sumar, N., Ford, 1., and Hermon-Taylor, I
      (1998) A low G + C content genetic island in Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis and
      Mycobacterium avium subsp. silvaticum with homologous genes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
      Microbiol. 144,3413-3423.
Tobin, RS., Smith, DK and Lindsay. JA (1981) Effects of activated carbon and bacteriostatic filters
      on microbiological quality of drinking water. Appl. Environ. M1£:rObiol. 41, 646----651.
Tokars, J.I., McNeil, M.M., Tablan, O.C, Chapin-Robertson, K, Patterson, JE., Edberg, S.C, and
      Jarvis, W.R (1990) Mycobacteri:um gordonae pseudoinfuction associated with a contaminated
      antimicrobial solution J. Clin. Microbiol. 28, 2765-2769.
Torkko, P., Suomalainen, S., Iivanainen, E., Suutari, M., Paulin, L., Rudback, E., Tortoli, E., Vincent,
      v., Mattila, R, and Katila, M.L. (2001) Characterization of Mycobacterium bohemicum isolated
      from human, veterinary, and environmental sources. J. Clin. Microbiol. 39, 207-211.
Torkko, P., Suomalainen, S., Iivanainen, E., Suutari, M., Tortoli, E., Paulin, L., and Katila, M.L. (2000)
      Mycobacterium xenopi and related organisms isolated from stream waters in Finland and
      description of Mycobacterium botniense sp. nov. Int. J. Syst Eval Microbiol. 50, 283-289.
Torkko, P., Suomalainen, S., Iivanainen, E., Tortoli, E., Suutari, M., Seppanen, 1., Paulin, L., and Katila,
      M.L. (2002) Mycobacterium palustre sp. nov., a potentially pathogenic, slowly growing
      mycobacterium isolated from clinical and veterinary specimens and from Finnish stream waters.
      Int. J. Syst. Eval. Microbiol. 52, 1519--1525.
Torres, F., Hodges, T., and Zamora, M.R (2001) Mycobacterium marinum infection in a lung
      transplant recipient J. Heart Lung Transplant. 20,486-489.
Toniani, F.J., Behling, CA, McCutchan, 1.A, Haubrich, RH. and Havlir, DV. (1996) Disseminated
      Mycobacterium avium complex: correlation between blood and tissue burden. J. Infect. Dis. 173,
      942-949.
Tortoli, E., Kroppenstedt, RM., Bartoloni, A, Caroli, G., Jan, I., Pawlowski, 1., and Emler, S. (1999)
      Mycobacterium tusciae sp. nov. Int. J. Syst. Bacteriol. 49, 1839--1844.
Trupiano, JK, Sebek, BA, GoldfuIb, 1., Levy, LR, Hall, o.S. and Procop, o.w. (200 1) Mastitis due
      to Mycobacterium abscessus after body piercing. Clin. Inject Dis. 33, 131-134.
Tsang, A Y., Denner, IC., Brennan, PJ. and McClatchy, K1. (1992) Clinical and epidemiological
      importance oftyping of Mycobacterium avium complex isolates. J. Clin. Micro. 30,479-484.
Tsianos, E.V, Masalas, CN., Merlmuropoulos, M., Dalekos, o.N. and Logan, RFA (1994)
      Incidence of inflammatory bowel disease in north west Greece: rarity of Crohn's disease in an
      area where ulcerative colitis is common. Gut 35,369--372.
Tufiley, RE., and Holbeche, ID. (1980) Isolation of the Mycobacterium avium-M intracellulore-M
      scrofolaceum complex from tank water in Queensland, Australia Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 39,
      48-53.
Ucko, M., Colomi, A, Kvitt, H., Diamant, A, Zlotkin, A and Krubb. WR (2002) Strain variation in
      Mycobacterium marinum fish isolates. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 68, 5281-5287.
222                           Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

US Environmental Protection Agency. Drinking water; national primaIy drinking water regulations;
     filtration, disinfection; turbidity, Giardia lamblia, viruses, Legionella, and heterotrophic bacteria;
     final rule. Federal Register, 1989,54, 27486--2754l.
US Environmental Protection Agency. National primaIy drinking water regulations: interim enhanced
     surfuce water treatment; final rule. Federal Register, 1998,63, 69477---6952l.
US Environmental Protection Agency. Potential Contamination Due to Cross-Connectians and
     Backflow and the Associated Health Risks: An Issues Paper. US Environmental Protection
     Agency,         Office       of      Ground     Water        and      Drinking      Water,     2002.
     (ht1p://www.epagov/safewater/tcr/pdV'cross.pdf Accessed 31/03/04)
van der Kooij, D. Assimilable organic carbon (AOC) in drinking water. In: McFeters, GA ed.
     Drinking Water MICrobiology. New Yolk, Springer-Verlag, 1990: 57----'d7.
van der Kooij, D. (1992) Assimilable organic carbon as an indicator ofbacterial regrowth. J. Am. Water
     Works Assoc. 84, 57---65.
van der Kooij, D. Managing HPC bacterial growth in drinking-water. In; Bartrnm, J., Cotruvo, J.,
     Exner, M., Fricker, C. and Glasrnacher, A, eds. Heterotrophic Plate Count Measurement in
     Drinking Water Sqfoty Management. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2003: 199-232.
van der Reijden, HJ., Schipper, M.E., Danner, SA, and Arisz, L. (1989) Glomerular lesions and
     opportunistic infections ofthe kidney in AIDS: an autopsy study of 47 cases. Adv. Exp. Med. Bioi.
     252, 181-188.
Van Kruiningen, HJ., Chiodini, RJ., Thayer WK, Coutu, JA, Metkal, RS. and Rtmnels, PJ. (1986)
     Experimental disease in infunt goats induced by a Mycobacterium isolated from a patient with
     Crohn'sdisease.Dig. Dis. Sci. 31,1351-1360.
Van Kruiningen, HJ. and Freda, BJ. (2001) A clustering ofCrohn's disease in Mankato, Minnesota
     Iriflam. Bowel. Dis. 7,27-33.
Van Leeuwen, JA, Keefe, G.P., Tremblay, R, Power, C. and Wichtel, J.J. (2001) Seroprevalence of
     infection with Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, bovine leukemia virus, and
     bovine viral diarrhea virus in maritime Canada dairy cattle. Can. Vet J. 42, 193-198.
van Oss, CJ., Gillman, C.F. and Neumann, AW. Phagocytic Engu!finent and Cell Adhesiveness. New
     YOIk,MarceIDekker,1975.
van Soolingen, D., Bauer, J., Ritacco, v., LeaD, S.c., Pavlik, 1., Vincent, v., Rastogi, N., Gori, A,
     Bodmer, T., Gau.elli, C. and Garcia MJ. (1998) 1S1245 restriction fragment length
     polymorphism typing of Mycobacterium avium isolates: proposal for standardization. J. Clin.
     MICrobiol. 36, 3051-3054.
Vandepitte, J., Desmyter, J. and Gatti, F. (1969) Mycobacteria, skins, and needles. Lancet 2, 691.
Vannuffel, P., Dieterich, c., Naerl:myzeI1, B., Gilot, P., Coene, M., Fiasse, R,and Cocito, C. (1994)
     Occurrence, in Crohn's Disease, of Antibodies Directed against a Species-Specific Recombinant
     Polypeptide of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. Clinical and Diagnostic Laboratory
     Immwwlogy.1,241-243.
Veloso, FT, Fraga, J, and Carvalho, J. (1989) Inflammatory bowel disease in Oporto. &and. J.
     Gastroenterol. 24 (suppI170), 32-35.
Venmlapalli, RK, Cantey, JR, Steed, L.L., Knapp, T.L. and Thielman, N.M. (2001) Emergence of
     resistance to c1arithromycin during treatment of disseminated cutaneous Mycobacterium
     chelonae infection: case report and \iterature review. J. Inject. 43, 163-168.
Vera, G. and Lew, S. Q. (1999) Mycobacterium fortuitum peritonitis in two patients receiving
     continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Am J. Nephrol. 19, 586-589.
Verghese, S., Mullaseri, A, Padmaja, P., Subhadra, AC. and Cherian, KM. (1998) Pacemaker implant
     site infection caused by atypical mycobacteria Indian Heart J. 50, 201-202.
                                             References                                              223

Venneire, S., Wild, G, Kocher, K, Cousineau, 1., Dufresne, L., Bitton, A, Langelier, D., Pare, P.,
      Lapointe, G, Cohen, A, Daly, MJ. and Rioux, JD. (2002) CARD15 genetic variation in a
      Quebec population: prevalence, genotype-phenotype relationship, and haplotype structure. Am J.
      Hum. Genet. 71, 74---83.
Villanueva, A, Calderon, R v., Vargas, BA, Ruiz, F., Aguero, S., Zhang, Y., Brown, B. A and
      Wallace, R1., Jr. (1997) Report on an outbreak ofpostinjection abscesses due to Mycobacterium
      abscessus, including management with surgery and clarithromycin therapy and comparison of
      strains by random amplified polymOlphic DNA polymerase chain reaction. Clin. Inject. Dis. 24,
       1147-1153.
Villella, A, Picard, c., Jouanguy, E., Dupuis, S., Popko, S., Abughali, N., Meyerson, H., Casanova,
      JL., and Hostoffer, R W. (200 I) Recurrent Mycobacterium avium osteomyelitis associated with a
      novel dominant interferon gannna receptor mutation. Pediatrics 107, E47.
Volk, c.J. and LeChevallier, MW. (2000) Assessing biodegradable organic matter. J. Am. Water
       Works Assoc. 92, 64-76.
von Reyn, c.F., Arbeit:, RD., Horsburgh, C.R, Ristola, MA, Waddell, RD., Tvaroha, S.M, Samore,
      M, Hirschhorn, LR., Lumio, 1, Lein, AD., Grove, MR. and Tosteson, AN. (2002) Sources of
      disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection in AIDS. J. Inject. 44, 166-170.
von Reyn, C.F., Albeit:, RD., Tosteson, AN., Ristola, MA, Barber, T.W., Waddell, R, Sox, C.H,
      Brindle, R1., Gilks, C.F., Ranki, A, Bartholomew, c., Edwards, 1., Falkinham, 1.0., ill, and
      o'Connor, G.T. (1996) The international epidemiology of disseminated Mycobacterium avium
      complex infuction in AIDS. International MAC Study Group. AIDS 10, 1025-1032.
von Reyn, C.F., Barber, T.w., Arbeit:, RD., Sox, C.H, O'Connor, GT., Brindle, Rl, Gilks, C.F.,
      Hakkarainen, K, Ranki, A, and Bartholomew, C. (1993a). Evidence of previous infuction with
      Mycobacterium avium-Mycobacterium intracellulare complex among healthy subjects: an
      international study of dominant mycobacterial skin testreactions.J. Infect. Dis. 168, 1553-1558.
von Reyn, C.F., Horsburgh, CR., Olivier, KN., Bames, P.F., Wadde~ R, Warren, c., Tvaroha, S.,
      Jaeger, AS., Lein, AD., Alexander, R, Weber, DJ., and Tosteson, AN. (2001) Skin test
      reactions to Mycobacterium tuberculosis purified protein derivative and Mycobacterium avium
      sensitin among health care wOlkers and medical students in the United States. Int. J. Tuber. Lung
      Dis. 5, 1122-1128.
von Reyn, C.F., Jacobs, NJ., Arbeit:, RD., Maslow, IN. and Niemczyk, S. (1995) Polyclonal
      Mycobacterium avium infections in patients with AIDS: variations in antimicrobial
      susceptibilities of different strains of M avium isolated from the same patient. J. Clin. Micro. 33,
       1008--1010.
von Reyn C.F., Maslow 1.N., Barber T.w., Falkinham 10. and Arbeit RD. (1994) Persistent
      colonization of potable water as a source of Mycobacterium avium infection in patients with
      AIDS. Lancet, 343, 1l37-1I4l.
von Reyn, C.F., Waddell, RD., Eaton, T., Albeit:, RD., Maslow, 1.N., Barber, T.W., Brindle, R1.,
      Gilks, c.F., Lumio, 1., llihdevirta, 1, Ranki, A, Dawson, D. and Falkinham, 1.0., ill. (1993)
      Isolation of Mycobacterium avium complex from water in the United States, Finland, Zaire, and
      Kenya. J. Clin. MlCrObiol31, 3227-3230.
Wagner, D., Sangari, FJ., Kim, S., PetrofSky, M, and Bermudez, L.E. (2002) Mycobacterium avium
      infuction of macrophages results in progressive suppression of interleukin-12 production in vitro
      and in vivo.J. Leukco. Bioi. 71, 8Q---.{\8.
Waldner, c.L., Curmingham, GL., Janzen, ED. and Campbell, J R (2002) Survey of Mycobacterium
      avium subspecies paratuberculosis serological status in beef herds on community pastures in
      Saskatchewan. Can. Vet. J. 43, 542-546.
224                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

Wall, S., Kunze, Z.M, Saboor, S., Soufleri, 1, Seechum, P., Chiodini, R and McFadden, JJ. (1993)
     Identification of spheroplast-like agents isolated from tissues of patients wifu Crohn's disease and
     control tissues bypolymerasechainreaction.J. Clin. MlCrObiol. 31,1241-1245.
Wallace,RJ., Jr. (1987) Nontuberculous mycobacteria and water: a love affair with increasing clinical
     importance. Infect. Dis. Clin. Norlh Am. 1, 677~86.
Wallace, RJ., Jr., Brown, BA and Griffifu, D.E. (1997) Mycobacterium cheloYlile vs. abscessus.
     Pediatr. Infect Dis. J. 16,829.
Wallace, RJ., .Jr., Brown, BA and Griffith, D.E. (1998). Nosocomial outbreakslpseudo-outbreaks
     caused by nontubercu1ous mycobacteria. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 52,453-490.
Wallace, RJ., Jr., Brown, BA, Griffith, D.E., Girard, W.M. & Murphy, D.T. (1996) Clarifuromycin
     regimens for pulmonary Mycobacterium avium complex. The first 50 patients. Am. J. Respir.
     Cnt. CareMed.153, 1766---1772.
Wallace, RJ., Jr., Brown, BA & Onyi, GO. (1992). Skin, soft tissue, and bone infections due to
     Mycobacterium chelonae chelonae: importance of prior corticosteroid fuerapy, frequency of
     disseminated infections, and resistance to oral antimicrobials ofuer 1han clarithromycin. J. Infect
     Dis. 166,405-412.
Wallace, RJ., Jr., Musser, J.M., Hull, S.I., Silcox, VA, Steele, L.C, Forrester, G.D., Labidi, A and
     Selander, RK (1989) Diversity and sources of rapidly growing mycobacteria associated with
     infections following cardiac surgery. J. Inject. Dis. 159,708--716.
Wallace, RJ., Jr., O'Brien, R, Glassroth, J., Raleigh J., and Dutt, A (1990) Diagnosis and treatment of
     disease caused by nontubercu1ous mycobacteria Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 142, 940--953.
Wallace, R1, Jr., Swenson, 1M, Silcox, V A, Good, RC, Tschen, 1A and Stone, MS. (1983)
     Spectrum of disease due to rapidly growing mycobacteria Rev. Infect. Dis. 5, 657-579.
Wallace, R1, Jr., Zhang, Y., Brown-Elliott, BA, Yakrus, MA, Wilson, R w., Mann, L., Couch, L.,
     Girard, W.M and Griffith, D.E. (2002) Repeat positive cultures in Mycobacterium intracellulare
     hmg disease after macrolide fuerapy represent new infections in patients wifu nodular
     bronchiectasis. J. Infect. Dis. 186,266---273.
Wallace, R1, Jr., Zhang, Y., Brown, BA, Dawson, D., Murphy, D.T., Wilson, R and Griffith, D.E.
     (1998a). Polyc1onal Mycobacterium avium complex infections in patients wifu nodular
     bronchiectasis. Am. J. Respir. Cnt. Care Med. 158, 1235-1244.
Wallace, R1, Jr., Zhang, Y., Wilson, R w., Mann, L. and Rossmoore, H. (2002a) Presence ofa single
     genotype of fue newly described species Mycobacterium immunogenum in industrial
     metalworking fluids associated wifu hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 68,
     5580--5584.
Walz, B.H. and Crosby, LA (1995) Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection offue knee joint.
     Case report Am. J. Knee. Surg. 8,35-37.
Wang, R, Luneau, A, Cao, W. and Cerniglia, CE. (1996) PCR detection of polycyclic aromatic
     hydrocarbon-degrading mycobacteria Env. Sci. Tech. 30, 307-311.
Wards, BJ., de Lisle, GW., Yates, GF., and Dawson, DJ. (1991) Characterization by restriction
     endonuclease analysis and seroagglutination of strains of Mycobacterium avium and
     Mycobacterium intracellulare obtained from funned deer. Am. J. Vet. Res. 52, 197-201.
Warek, U. and Falkinharn, J.O. (1996) Action of c10fazimine on fue Mycobacterium avium complex.
     Res. MicrobioI.147,43-48.
Watts, DA and Satsangi, J. (2002) The genetic jigsaw of inflammatoIy bowel disease. Gut 50, 31-
     36.
Wayne, L.G., Good, RC, Tsang, A, Butler, R, Dawson, D., Groofuuis, D., Gross, W., Hawkins, J.,
     Kilburn, J. and Kubin, M. (1993) Serovar detennination and molecular taxonomic correlation in
                                            References                                            225

     A1ycobacterium avium, A1ycobacterium intracellulare, and A1ycobacterium scrofolaceum: a
     cooperative study of the international wolking group on mycobacterial taxonomy. Internat. J.
     Syst. Bacterial. 43, 482---489.
Weber, ME., Blanchard, D.C. and Syzdek, L.D. (1983) The mechanism of scavenging ofwaterbome
     bacteria by a rising bubble. Limnol. Oreanagr. 28, 10 1-105.
Weigl, J.A and Haas, w.H. (2000) Postoperative Mycobacterium avium osteomyelitis confinned by
     polymerase chain reaction. Eur. J. Pediatr. 159,64--69.
Weiner, BK, Love, T.W., and Fraser, RD. (1998) Mycobacterium avium intracellulare: vertebral
     osteomyelitis. J. Spinal Disord. 11, 89--91.
Weinstein, RA, Golomb, H.M., Gnunet, G., Gelman, E. and Schechter, G.P. (1981) Hally cell
     leukemia: association with disseminated atypical mycobacterial infection. Cancer, 48, 380---383.
Weiss, IK, Krogstad, PA, Botero, c., Von Seidlein, L., and Nash, K (1995) Fatal Mycobacterium
     avium meningitis after mis-identification ofM tuberculosis. Lancet 345, 991-992.
Weitzu1, S., Eichhorn, PJ. and Pandya, AG. (2000) Nontuberculous mycobacterial infections of the
     skin. Dermatol. Clin. 18,359-377. xi-xii.
Wells, SJ., Ott, S.L., Garber, L.P. and Bulaga, LL. Johne's disease on U.S.dairy operations: Results
     from the NAHMS Dally 96 Study. In: Chiodini, RJ., Hines, ME., Collins, MT. eds.
     Proceedings o/the Fifth International Colloquium on Paratuberculosis. 1996: 140---142.
Wendt, S.L., George, KL., Pmker, E.c., Gruft, H. and Falkinham, J.O. (1980) Epidemiology of
     infuction by nontuberculous Mycobacteria m. Isolation of potentially pathogenic mycobacteria
     from aerosols. American Review o/Respiratory Disease 122, 259-263.
Wenger, J.D., Spika, J.S., Smithwick, R W., Pryor, v., Dodson, DW., Carden, G.A and Klontz, KC.
     (1990) Outbreak of A1ycobacterium chelonae infection associated with use ofjet injectors. JAMA.
     264,373-376.
Whan, L.B., Grant, IR, Ball, H.J., Scott, R, and Rowe, MT. (2001) Bactericidal effect of chlorine on
     A1ycobacterium paratuberculosis in drinking water. Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 33,227-231.
Wheeler, PW., Lancaster, D. and Kaiser, AB. (1989) Bronchopulmoruuy cross-colonization and
     infuction related to mycobacterial contamination of suction valves of bronchoscopes. J. Infoct.
     Dis. 159,954-958.
Whipple, D., Kapke, P. and Val)' C. (1990) Identification ofrestriction fragment length polymOlphisms
     in DNA from A1ycobacterium paratuberculosis. J. Clin. Microbiol. 28, 2561-2564.
Whittington, RJ., Fell, S., Walker, D., McAllister, S., Marsh, 1, Sergeant, E., Taragel, C.A, Marshall,
     DJ. and Links, I.J. (2000) Use of pooled fecal culture for sensitive and economic detection of
     Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis infection in flocks of sheep. J. Clin. Microbiol.
     38, 2550---2556.
Whittington, RJ., Hope, AF., Marshall, DJ., Taragel, C.A and Marsh, I. (2000a) Molecular
     epidemiology of A1ycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis: IS900 polymorphism analyses
     of isolates from animals and a human in Australia J. Clin. Microbiol. 38,3240---3248.
Whittington, RJ., Lloyd, J.E., and Reddaclifi; LA (2001). Recovery of Mycobacterium avium subsp.
     paratuberculosis from nematode larvae cultured from the fueces of sheep with Johne's disease.
     Vet. Microbiol. 81,273-279.
Whittington, RJ., Marsh, LB. and Whitlock, RH. (200la) Typing ofIS1311 polymorphisms confirms
     that bison (Bison bison) with paratuberculosis in Montana are infected with a strain of
     A1ycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis distinct from that occurring in cattle and other
     domesticated livestock Mol. Cell. Probes 15,139-145.
Whittington, RJ., Taragel, CA, Ottaway, S., Marsh, 1, Seaman, J and Fridriksdottir, V. (2001b).
     Molecular epidemiological confinnation and circumstances of occurrence of sheep (S) strains of
     }Jycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in cases of paratuberculosis in cattle in Australia
     and sheep and cattle in Iceland Vet. MICrobiol. 79,311-322.
226                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water

WHO Guidelines For Safe Recreational-Water Environments. Vol. 2: Swimming pools. spas and
     similar recreational-water environments. Geneva, World health Organization, 2000
     (WHO/SDElWSHlOO.6).
WHO World Health Report 2002, Reducing risks, promoting healthy lifo. Geneva, World Health
     Organization, 2002.
WHO WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality (Vols. 1,2, Microbiology addendum). Fewtrell,
     L. and Bartram, 1, eds. Water Guidelines, Standards and Health: Water Sqfety Plan Report.
     Geneva, World Health Organization, In press.
Wilson, R W., Steingrube, V A, Bottger, E.C., Springer, B., Brown-Elliott, BA, Vincent, V., Jost,
     KC., Jr., Zhang, Y., Garcia, MJ., Oriu, S.H., Onyi, G.O., Rossmoore, H., Nash, DR and
     Wallace, Rl, Jr. (2001) }.;fycobacterium immunogernon sp. nov., a novel species related to
     Mycobacterium abscessus and associated with clinical disease, pseudo-{)utbreaks and
     contaminated metalworking fluids: an international cooperative study on mycobacterial
     taxonomy. Int. J Syst. Evol. MICrobiol. 51, 1751-1764.
Windsor, RS., Durrant, D.S., Burn, Kl, Blackburn, IT., and Duncan, W. (1984) Avian tuberculosis in
     pigs: miliary lesions in bacon pigs. J Hyg. (Lond.) 92, 129-138.
Winthrop, KL., Abrams, M., Yakrus, M., Schwartz, 1., Ely, 1, Gillies, D. and Vugia, DJ. (2002) An
     outbreak of mycobacterial funmculosis associated with footbaths at a nail salon. N Engl. J Med.
     346,1366--1371.
Witty, LA, Tapson, Y.F. and Piantados~ CA (1994) Isolation of mycobacteria in patients with
     pulmornuy alveolar proteinosis. Medicine 73, 103-107.
Wolinsky, E. (1979) Nontuberculous mycobacteria and associated diseases. Am. Rev. Resp. Dis. 119,
     107-159.
Wolinsky, E. (1992) Mycobacterial diseases other than tuberculosis. Clin. Infect. Dis. 15, 1-10.
Wolinsky, E. (1995) Mycobacterial lymphadenitis in children: a prospective study of 105
     nontuberculous cases with long-term follow-up. Clin. Inject. Dis. 20, 954-963.
Wolinsky, E., Gomez, F. and Zimpfer, F. (1972) Sporotrichoid Mycobacterium marinum infection
     treated with rifumpin-ethambutol. Am Rev. Respir. Dis. lOS, 964-947.
Wong B., Edwards F.F., Kiehn T.E., Whimbey, E., Donnelly, H., Bernard, E.M., Gold, lW. and
     Armstrong, D. (1985) Continuous high-grade Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare bacteremia in
     patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Am. J. Med. 78, 35---40.
Woo, P.c., Li, J.H., Tang, W. and Yuen, K (2001) Acupuncture mycobacteriosis. N Engl. J. Med.
     345, 842---843.
Woodhouse, M.E.l, Taylor, L.H., and Haydon, D.T. (2001) Population biology of multihost
     pathogens. Science 292,1109-1112.
Woodley, c.L. and David, H.L. (1976) Effect of temperature on the rate of transparent to opaque
     colony type transition in Mycobacterium avium. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 9, 113-119.
Wright, E.P., Collins, c.H., and Yates, M.D. (1985) Mycobacterium xenopi and Mycobacterium
     kansasii in a hospital water supply. J. Hosp. Inject. 6, 175-178.
YaJko, D.M., Chin, D.P., Gonzalez, P.c., Nassos, P.S., Hopewell, P.c., Reingold, AL., Horsburgh,
     C.R, Jr., Yakrus, MA, Ostrofi; S.M., and Hadley, WK (1995) Mycobacterium avium complex
     in water, food, and soil samples collected from the environment ofHIV-infected individuals. J.
     Acquir. Immune. Dijic. Syndr. Hum Retrovirol. 9, 176--182.
Yamazaki, K, Takazoe, M., Tanaka, T., Kazumori, T. and Nakamura, Y. (2002) Absence of mutation
     in the NOD2/CARD15 gene among 483 Japanese patients with Crohn's disease. J. Hum Genet.
     47,469--472.
                                            References                                           227

Yang, H., McEIree, c., Roth, M-P., Shanahan, F., Targan, SK and Rotter, J.I. (l993a) Familial
     empirical risks for inflammatOlY bowel disease: differences between Jews and non-Jews. Gut 34,
     517-524.
Yang, M., Ross, B.C. and Dwyer, B. (1993) Isolation of a DNA probe fur identification of
     A1ycobacterium kansasii, including the genetic subgroup. J. Clin. Microbial. 31, 2769--2772.
Yao, T., Matsui, T. and Hiwatashi, N. (2000) Crohn's disease in Japan: diagnostic criteria and
     epidemiology. Dis. Colon Rectwn. 43 (suppl), S85-S93.
Yoder, S., Cameta, c., Holtzamn, Aronson, T., Berlin, O.G., Tomasek, P., Glover, N., Froman, S. and
     Steltna, G., Jr. (1999) PeR comparison of A1ycobacterium avium isolates obtained from patients
     and foods. Appl Environ. Microbial. 65, 2650--2653.
YOlmes, M. and Bartram, I (2001) Wateroome health risks and the WHO perspective. Int. J. Hyg.
     Environ. Health 204, 255---263.
Yu, F.P., Callis, GM. Stewart, P.S. Griebe T. and McFeters. GA (1994) Oyosectioning ofbiofilms
     for microscopic examination. Biofouling 8, 85---91.
Zakowski P., Fligiel S., Berlin O.G. and Johnson BL. (1982) Disseminated A1ycobacterium avium-
     intracellulare infection in homosexual men dying of acquired immlUlodeficiency. JAMA 248,
     2980.
Zammarchi, E., Vichi, GF., Falomi, S., Bartolini, P., Donati, MA., and Lenzi, G. (1987)
     [Osteomyelitis caused by atypical mycobacteria in multiple colonies]. Pediatr. Med. Chir. 9,
     57---61.
Zenone, T., Boibieux, A, Tigaud, S., Fredenucci, IF., Vincent, v., Chidiac, C. and Peyramond, D.
     (1999) Non-tuberculous mycobacterial tenosynovitis: a review. Scand J. Infect. Dis. 31,221-
     228.
Zetb~ P., Schonau, A, Bonetto, S., Go~ A, Costanzi, G, Duca, P. and Vago, L. (2001) Amplified in
     situ hybridization with peptide nucleic acid probes for differentiation of A1ycobacterium
     tuberculosis complex and nontuberculous Mycobacterium species on fonnalin-fixed, paraffin-
     embedded archival biopsy and autopsy samples. Am. J. Clin. PatholU6, 770--775.
Zhang, Q., Kennon, R, Koza, MA., Hulten, K and Clarridge, IE., 3rd (2002) Pseudoepidemic due to
     a unique strain ofA1ycobacterium szulgai: genotypic, phenotypic, and epidemiological analysis. J.
     Clin. Microbiol. 40, 1134-1139
Zlubang Y, BiXia Z, Qishan L, Libao C, Xiangquan L, and Huaping L. (2002) Large-scale outbreak of
     infection with A1ycobacterium chelonae subsp. abscessus after penicillin injection. J. Clin.
     Microbial. 40, 2626-2628.
Zhou, 2., Lin, XY., Akolkar, P.N., Gulwani-Akolkar, B., Levine, I, Katz, S and Silver, I (2002)
     Variation at NOD2/CARDI5 in fumilial and sporadic cases ofCrohn's disease in the Ashkenazi
     Jewish population. Am. J. Gastroenterol. 97, 3095-3101.
zu Bentrup, KH. and Russell D.G (2001) Mycobacterial persistence: adaptation to a changing
     environment TRENDS in Microbial. 9, 597---605 .
  Index




 Note: page numbers in italics refer to figures, those in bold refer to tables.

  16SrRNA gene sequencing 67---8                      analysis process 58---72, 58
 abscesses 107                                       detection 63-72
    see also "Mycobacterium abscessus                method sunnnary 59
 Acanthamoeba 42                                     sampling 60-2
 adenitis see ceJVical adenitis
                                                     whole genome sequencing projects 56-7
 aerosols                                          animals
    M avium31-2
                                                     faeces 7, 11, 178
   MAP infection from animals 82-3                  M avium and MAC infections 16-17
   pulmoruuy infections 12, 116                     MAP infection 75---8, 88
Afiica 10, 110-11
                                                    MAP transmission to humans 80-3
AIDS patients                                     antIbiotics see drug therapies
   antiretroviral therapy 10                      antiretroviral therapy 10, 96, 98, 109
   disseminated infection 6, 95-6, 97             assimilable organic carbon (AOC) 160-1,
   skin infections 108---9                        161-2
amoebae 16,32-3,42,165                            avian infections 17
analytical detection methods 55-73                azithromycin 123
                                          [229]
230                          Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


bacterial physiology 48--50                      ciprofloxacin 93
bathing water 173-4                              clarifuromycin
BCGvaccination 7,10-11,100                         disseminated MAC infections 98
biodegradable organic matter (BDOC) 160-           MAP infections 89, 92-3
                                                    pulmonary infections 123-4, 125
1,161-2
                                                    skin infections 106, 107, 109
biofilms
   device-related infections 139                 clofuzimine92
   distribution systems 60, 162-4                coagulation treatment 145--9
   M avium 29,35,36                               cold water systems see drinking waters;
biotechnology advances 56                         swimming pools
bird infections 17                                colonization 132, 133
bone infections see skin, bone and soft tissue    commercial tests 69
 infections                                       contact materials 162-4
bronchoscopic contamination 6, 133                contact times for disinfection 156-9
 Bumli ulcer (BU) 104                             contamination
   see also Mycobacterium ulcerans                   see also decontamination
    epidemiology 112                                 equipment 131-42
    incidence 8,10,110-11                            recontamination 166-7, 177
    risk fuctors 113                                 water 3-4
                                                   control measures 12, 170-2
 Canada, Crohn disease 86                            see also public health protection
 Cardiff; Crohn disease 83                         cooling tower water 175
 catabolism, MAC 50                                cosmetic industry infections 136-7
 cattle infections 75--8, 88                       cows, MAP infection 75--8
                                                   CPC see cetyl pyridinium chloride
 CD see Crohn disease
 cell envelope 48                                  Crohn disease (CD)
 ceIVical adenitis 99--102                            anti-MAP drugs 92-3
    children 2, 5, 88                                 causes 11
    epidemiology and risk fuctors 100-1               child MAP infection 88--9
    incidence and mortality 101                       epidemiology and susceptibility 85-7
    prevention and treatment 101-2                    Iceland 87-8
    species shit122-3                                 MAP in inflamed gut 89--91
  cetyl pyridinium chloride (CPC) 62                  pathogenic mechanisms 93-4
                                                       recognition of MAP proteins 91-2
  CF see cystic fibrosis
                                                       symptoms and treatment 84-5
  children
                                                       transmission from water supply 82-3
     Bumli ulcer 112
     ceIVical adenitis 2, 5,22-3, 88,100-1           cryosectioning technique 60-1
  chlornminedisinfection 150,153,156                 Cryptosporidium control 153, 154
  chlorine dioxide disinfection 150, 157             culture enrichment 63--5
  chlorine disinfection 150, 151-2, 155              cystic fibrosis (CF) 121-2
   cigarettes 6, 33
                                         Index                                          231

   decontamination                             disseminated MAC infection 2, 5, 95-9
      Mavium27-8                                   epidemiology and risk fuctors 96--8
     methodology 61-2                              microbiology 96
  detection methods                                prevention and treatment 9&--9
     analysis process 5&--72, 58               distribution of infection see epidemiology;
     cultural enrichment 63-5                  incidence
     direct DNA detection 65-6                distribution systems (water) 166--7, 177
     genus and species 66--70                 diversity 41-2, 53
     ISH 66                                   DNA
    PCR screening 65-6                            direct detection 65-6, 67
    primaty isolation 63-6                        fingetprinting methods 21-2
    recovery media 64                             random amplified polymOlphic 71-2
    sub-species discrimination 70-2              sequencing 56, 67-72
 developed countries 97                       drinking waters 11
 developing countries 7, 10,97, 110-11           coagulation and filtration 145-9
 device-related infections 131--42               contact materials 162--4
    causality 141-2                              disinfection23,149-59
    cosmetic industIy 136--7                     free living amoebae 165
    dialysis-related 135                         HACCP approach 144
   incidence and epidemiology 140-1             M avium 20, 28-9,147, 150, 153,
   injection abscesses 136                       161
   microbial fuctors 13&--40                    management 173--4
   mycobacterial species 134                    MAP transmission from animals 82
   risk fuctors 141                             regrowth ofmycobacteria 160-4
   surgical procedures 137-8                    sampJing60
   vascular devices 135                         system recontamination 166--7, 177
diagnostic tests in animals 77-8               temperature control 164-5
dialysis-related infections 135              drug therapies
diarrhoea 76, 84                               cervical adenitis 10 1-2
direct DNA detection methods 65-6, 67          Crohn disease 8&--9, 92-3
disease 5-7                                    disseminated MAC infections 98-9
  see also infections                         pulmonary infections 123--4
disinfection                                  skin infections 106, 107, 109
  chloramine 150, 153,156
  chlorine dioxide 150,157                   ecology
  contact times 156-9                          M avium20-1
  drinking waters 149-59                       natural environment 16--17
 free chlorine 150,151-2,155                 effluent water mycobacteria occurrence
 Mavium27                                    148
 resistance 139                              ejected droplets 31-2
 selection of mycobacteria 23                elderly people's infections 128
 ultraviolet light 153, 154, 159             enteric neuritis 76, 94
232                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


environment                                     foods 6, 33, 80-1
  Crohn disease incidence 87                      see also milk
  MAC 41                                        foot baths 107, 135--6
                                                free chlorine disinfection 150, 151-2, 155
  MAP 80
  overlap ofhuman and M avium 37                freezing treatment 165
  sources 26-38
environmental mycobacteria 1-2                  genes
   coagulation and filtration 145-9               detection methods 66, 67
   disinfection WI-59                             MAA51-2
   ecology 16-17                                  MAP 53
   epidemiology 5--6                              sequencing, 16SrRNA 67--8
   exposure routes 35--6                        genomes 12,43-7
   rapidly growing 39, 64, 99, 107--8,148         analysis 54
   slowly growing 39,64,99,148                    M ulcerans and M marinum 47
   wateIbome outbreaks 9                          MAA43-4,45
 epidemiology 5--6                                MAP 46-7
   Buruli ulcer 112                                sequencing projects 13, 56-7
    cetVical adenitis 100-1                      genus and species identification 67-70
    Crohn disease 85-7                             commercial tests 69
    device-related infections 141                  pathogen-specific PCR tests 69, 70
    disseminated MAC infection 96-8              Giardia cysts 151
    M ulcerans 57                                global distribution of disease 8--11
    pulmomuyinfections 118--19, 127              glycopeptidolipids (GPLs) 48
     skin infections 112                         growth
  equipment-related infections 131-42               intracellular 32-3
  erythromycin 92                                   M avium characteristics 18
  ethambutol                                        MAC 50
     pulmomuy infections 123                        MAP 74--5
     skin infections 102, 106, 109, 11 0            rapid growers 39, 64, 99,107--8,148
  Europe, Crohn disease 85, 86                      regrowth in drinking water 160-4
  evolution 41-2, 54                                 slow growers 39, 64, 99, 148


  tatty acids 50                                  HAART see highly active antiretroviral
  filtration                                      therapy
     drinking waters 145-9                        Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
     mycobacteria occurrence 147                  (HACCP)
     pore sizes 146                                 drinking waters 144
  fingerprinting methods 21-2                       hazards and preventative measures 177
  fish infections 17, 50                            management 176-8
   fish tanks 105                                    public heallh protection 169--70
   tloccu1ation145                                 hazards 177
                                              Index                                        233

 heat treatment 164, 165                              Crohn disease 85-7, 86
 helminths 16
                                                      disseminated MAC infection 98
 heterogeneity 21-2,42                                global burden 8-11
 high incidence environments 34-5                     Iohne disease 77-8
 high risk groups 176                                 pulmonary infections 126
 highly active antiretroviral therapy                 skin infections 110-11
 (HAART) 7, 96, 98, 109                             industrial exposure 174-5
 HIV patients 10                                    infections 1-2, 5-7
 HIV-associated MAC infection 2, 5, 7,                disseminated 95-9
 96,97-8                                              equipment-related 131-42
 hospital water systems 5, 35, 97, 139, 175           MAC 95-103
 host environments 51-4                               MAP in livestock 75-8
   entry and survival 51                              MAP in wildlife 79
   MAA genes 51-2                                    pseudo-infections 132-3
   MAP genes 53                                      pUlmonary 115-30
 hot tub waters
                                                     skin, bone and soft tissue 104-14
  see also spa waters                                true infections 132, 134
  hypersensitivity pneumonitis 122,                inflammation of intestines 2, 75-7, 83-
   123                                            5, 89-91
  M avium 20, 29, 34                              ingestion of M avium 35
  MAC infection 5                                 inhalation of M avium 35
  management 174
                                                  inherited susceptibility (Crohn disease) 87
  skin infections 107                             injection abscesses l36
hot water systems                                 insects 16
  disseminated MAC infections 97-8                 insertion sequences (IS) 22, 43, 45, 47,
  Legionellapneumophila 171-2, 174, 175            56-7,70-1
  M avium 8, 34-5, 36                              institutions
  MAC infections 83                                  exposure 175-6
hsp65 gene 68                                        genome sequencing 13
human MAP infection from animals                  inter-insertion sequence polymerase
80-3,88                                           chain reaction (inter-IS PCR) 71
hydrophobicity of M avium 19,20-1                 intestinal inflammation 2,75-7,83-5,
hypersensitivity pneumonitis 122-3                89-91
                                                  intracellular life
Iceland, Crohn disease 87-8                         M avium 32-3
identification see detection methods                MAA genes 51-2
ileostomy 85                                        MAP genes 53
immunomagnetic separation (IMS) 62, 63           invasive procedures see device-related
in situ hybridization (ISH) 66, 90-1             infections
incidence
                                                 IS see insertion sequences
  Buruli ulcer 110-11                            IS900 PCR 81,89,90,91
  cervical adenitis 101                          ISH see in situ hybridization
234                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


isolation                                       macrolide 101
                                                MAIS (Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare-
  see also detection methods
  aerosols and ~ected droplets 31-2             scrofolaceum) 2
  methodology 56, 63--fJ                        mammals see animals; livestock
  soils 30                                      MAP (Mycobacterium avium subsp.
  water 27-8                                    paratuberculosis) 2, 40
                                                  animal infections to h1.lllllli1S 80-3
Johne disease (JD) 11,75-8,88                     Crohn disease 88--94
                                                  different strnins 78--9
Lady Windermere's syndrome 119                    genomes 46-7
laser vision correction surgery 137-8              growth pattern 74-5
Legionellapneumophila 171-2, 173-4, 175            intracellular life 53
lesions see skin, bone and soft tissue             IS900 53, 57, 69
infections                                         Johne disease 75-8
                                                   livestock infections 42, 75-8, 88
livestock
   see also animals
                                                   pathogenic mechanisms 93-4
                                                   protein recognition in Crohn disease 91-2
   infections 16-17
   Johne disease 11, 75-8, 88                       wildlife and environment 79-80
   MAP infection 32, 75-8,88                     media for recovery 64
 lung diseases see pulmonary infections          meningitis 103
 lymph node excision 101-2                       rnetabolism20, 50
 lymphadenitis see cervical adenitis             metronidazole 93
                                                 MGIT medium 90
 MAA (Mycobacterium avium subsp. avium)           microarrays 44,54
 5,40                                             microbiology
   AIDS patients 3-4, 5
                                                    disseminated MAC infection 96
   bird fueces 42                                   pulmonary infections 125-6
   entry and survival 51                          milk
   genes in intracellular life 51-2                  MAC infection 6
   strain 104 genome 43-4, 45                        MAP infection 11, 80-1, 89
  MAC (Mycobacterium avium complex) 2, 40         MLST see multi-locus sequence typing
   animals 17                                     molecular marl<:ers of virulence 54
   cell envelope 48                               morphotype switches 48--50
   disseminated infection 2, 5, 95-9              mortality 8
   drinking waters 143--fJ8                          cervical adenitis 101
    epidemiology 96-8                                Legionella pneumophila 171
    evolution and diversity 41-2                   multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) 69, 72
    metabolism and catabolism 50                   rmmicipal water management 173--fJ
    morphotypic switches 48--50                    Mycobacterium
    pulmonary diseases 115-30                        see also MAA; MAC; MAIS; MAP; species
    skin and soft tissue infections 108--9            evidence in water 3-4
                                                Index                                             235

  M ahscessus 107--8, 117, 121, 125, 126, 136             M smegmatis 107, 136
  Mavium                                                  M terrae 110
     aerosols, ejected droplets and dust 31-2             M tuberculosis 7, 40, 43
    animaI and bird infections 16--17                     Mulcerans
    child infections 5, 22-3                               genome 47,57
    disinfection 150, 151                                  MlST72
    distribution system biofiIms 162                       skin lesions 40--1, 104, 110, III
    drinking water 20, 28--9, 147,150,153,161              transmission 112
    heterogeneity 21-2                                    M xenopi 8, 126
    high incidence environments 34--5
    hot water systems 8, 34--5, 36                      natural waters 28
    occurrence changes 22-3                             nodular bronchiectasis 118, 119-20, 126
   phagocytic protozoa and amoebae 32-3                 nomenclature 2
   physiologic characteristics 18--20                   non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) 99-
   physiologic ecology 20--1                            102, l35
   routes of exposure 35--8                             nosocomial infections 103,134,140
   selection by disinfectants 23                        NTM see non-tuberculous mycobacteria
   in soils 30
   in water 27-9                                    occurrence 22-3
 M bovis 80, 89                                       see also epidemiology; incidence
 M chelonae 107, 152, 161                           osteomyelitis 102, 108
 Mfortuitum 39, 50, 107,151, 152                    otitis media l3 7
 M genavense 17                                     oxygen response 19
 M gordonae 149,150,152                             ozone disinfection 158
 M haemophilum 109, 111, 112
 M intracellulare                                   pacemakers l35
  animals 16,42                                     panareaticinfection103
  biofiIms 29, 162                                  pasteurization 81
  exposure routes 35-6                              pathogenic mechanisms 93-4
  immunocompetent people 5                          PCR see polymerase chain reaction
  physiology 18--20                                 peat 30
M kansasii 8,69, 117, 125, 126                      peritonitis l35
M leprae40
                                                    PFGE see pulsed-field gel eletrophoresis
M malmoense 100,127                                pH19
Mmarinum                                           phagocytic protozoa 32-3
 fish disease 40--1                                physiology
 genome 47                                           M avium 18-21
 MlST72                                              MAC complex 48-50
 skin infections 8, 105-6, 1l1, 112                pipes
M peregrinum 149                                     biofilm growth 60, 162-4
M scrofolaceum22-3, 100                              recontamination 166--7
Msimiae 127
                                                   plastic surgety infections 107, l38
236                         Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water


point of exposure 177--8                           device-related infections 142
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 66, 67              drinking water contamination 167--8
  genus and species identification 69, 70           genome sequencing 73
  IS900 81, 89, 90, 91                              recovery methods 37--8
  screening 65                                      vaccination 14
pore size of filters 146                         respiratory infections 2
preventative measures 177                        restriction fragment length polymorphism
primal)' PEM pulmonary disease 118-20            (RFLP)79
                                                 RGM see rapidly growing mycobacteria
protozoa 16
pseudo-infections 132-3, 133                     rifubutin 89, 92-3, 123
public health protection                         rifumpicin 92
  HACCP approach 169-70, 176-8                    rifumpin
  management options 173-fJ                          pulmonary infections 123,124
  response 170-2                                     skin infections 106, 109, 110
pulmonary infections 115-30                       risk fuctors 7
  asymptomatic disease 128-9                         cervical adenitis 100-1
  causality 127                                      device-related infections 141
  diagnosis 117                                      disseminated MAC infection 96--8
   distribution 126-7                                pulmonary infections 128-9
   epidemiology 118-19, 127                           skin infections 113
   hypersensitivity pneumonitis 122-3              risk management 169-79
   incidence 126                                      see also public health protection
   microbiology 125-fJ                             routes of exposure, M avium 35--8
   primal)' PEM 118-20
   risk fuctors 128-9                             salinity,M avium 19-20
    secondary PEM 120-2                           samples
    treatment issues 123-5                          collection 60-1
 pulsed-field gel eletrophoresis (pFGE) 71, 79      preparation 61-2
                                                     storage 61
  random amplified polymorphic DNA                saprophytes 1
  (RAPD)71-2                                      sarcoidosis 103
  rapidly growing mycobacteria (RGM) 39, 64,       SCOTS analysis 51-2, 54
                                                   secondary PEM pulmonary disease 120-2
  99,107--8,148
  recontamination ofdrinking water 166-7, 177      septic arthritis 102
  recreational water management 174                serovar-specific glycopeptidolipids
     see also hot tub waters; spa waters;          (ssGPL) 48
   swimming pools                                  sheep 78, 88
   regrowth of mycobacteria 160-4                  showers 36
                                                   skin, bone and soft tissue infections 104-14
   research issues
     biology 53-4                                     causality 113
     detection and disinfection 23-4, 38              epidemiology 112
                                                Index                                                  237

      incidence and dis1nbution 110-11                     piped water systems 140
     M haemophilum 109                                   tenosynovitis 102, 108
     M marirrum 105--6                                   trauma 36
     M ulcerans 110                                     treatments see drug therapies; surgical
     MAC infections 108-9                               treatments
     rapidly growing mycobacteria 107-8                 true infections l32, 133, 134
     risk fuctors 113                                   tuberculosis (TB) 100
  slowly growing mycobacteria 39,64,99, 148                see also Mycobacterium tuberculosis
  smoking 118,120-1                                     typing 2
  soft tissues see skin, bone and soft tissue
  infections                                            ulcers see Buruli ulcer; skin, bone and soft
  soils 30                                              tissue infections
  sourcecontro1177                                      ultraviolet light disinfection 153, 154, 159
  spa waters 5, 20, 29, 34                              unidentified mycobacterial isolates 33--4
 species                                                United States 10
    effluent samples occurrence 148
    identification 67-70                                variants see morphotype switches
    nosocomial infections 134                           vascular device infections 135
    occurrence 22-3
    skin infections 113                              water supply systems
 spinal infections l37                                 see also drinking waters; hospital water
 sputum production 116--17                           systems; hot water systems
 ssGPL see serovar-specific                            human infections 7-8
glycopeptidolipids                                     infection from animals 82-3
stress in Crohn disease 84                             recontamination 166--7, 177
sub-species discrimination 70-2                     water temperatures 140, 164--5
supennatket foods 6                                 water treatment processes 145--59
surgical treatments 101, 125                          coagulation and filtration 145--9
surgically-caused infections 106, l37-8               disinfection 149--59
swimming pools 5, 29, 122, 174                        mycobacteria growth 148-9
switches, morphotypes 48-50                         water types
                                                      contamination evidence 3-4, 9
taxonomy 39-41,54                                     industrial water 174--5
TB see tuberculosis                                   M avium27-9
temperatures                                          natural waters 28
  drinking waters 164--5                            waterbometransmission 7-8, 9
  Mavium 19                                         wildlife 79
LI'I
    I
'"
LI'I
N        '"
         LJ"\
>D       N
LI'I
~


    I
         '"
         U"'I
N
   I     -.;t
         N
'"
Z
CD
(I)
         '"
         00
         I"-
......
         '"
