                                                                     137




   Linking technology choice
with operation and maintenance
        in the context of
    community water supply
         and sanitation
         A REFERENCE DOCUMENT
     FOR PLANNERS AND PROJECT STAFF

            François Brikké and Maarten Bredero




     World Health Organization and IRC Water and Sanitation Centre
                         Geneva, Switzerland
                                 2003
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
Linking technology choice with operation and maintenance in the context of community water
supply and sanitation: a reference document for planners and project staff / prepared by François
Brikké and Maarten Bredero.
    1.Water supply 2.Sanitation 3.Water resources development 4.Appropriate technology
    5.Maintenance – methods 6.Manuals I.Brikké, François II.Bredero, Maarten III.Water Supply
    and Sanitation Collaborative Council. Operation and Maintenance Network.
    ISBN 92 4 156215 3                                                      (NLM classification: WA 675)




© World Health Organization 2003
All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from Marketing and Dissemina-
tion, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel: +41 22 791 2476; fax:
+41 22 791 4857; email: bookorders@who.int). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publica-
tions – whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution – should be addressed to Publications, at the above
address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; email: permissions@who.int).
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of
any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country,
territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines
on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.
The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or
recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned.
Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.
The World Health Organization does not warrant that the information contained in this publication is complete and
correct and shall not be liable for any damages incurred as a result of its use.
Designed by minimum graphics
Printed in Malta
                                                                                  CONTENTS
                                                                                        iii


Contents



Preface                                                                                 v
Acknowledgements                                                                       vi
1. Introduction                                                                         1
   1.1 The importance of operation and maintenance for water-supply
         and sanitation technologies                                                    1
   1.2 Defining sustainability                                                          2
   1.3 Organization of the document – Fact Sheets                                       5
2. The    technology selection process                                                  6
   2.1     Introduction                                                                 6
   2.2     Factors that influence the selection of community water-supply technology    6
   2.3     The selection process for community water-supply technology                  8
   2.4     Factors that influence the selection of community sanitation technology     10
   2.5     The selection process for community sanitation technology                   10
   2.6     Assessing O&M needs                                                         12
3. Water sources and intakes                                                           20
   3.1 Introduction                                                                    20
   3.2 Rooftop rainwater harvesting                                                    21
   3.3 Catchment and storage dams                                                      23
   3.4 Springwater collection                                                          26
   3.5 Dug well                                                                        29
   3.6 Drilled wells                                                                   32
   3.7 Subsurface harvesting systems                                                   34
   3.8 Protected side intake                                                           36
   3.9 River-bottom intake                                                             38
   3.10 Floating intake                                                                39
   3.11 Sump intake                                                                    41
4. Water-lifting devices                                                               43
   4.1 Introduction                                                                    43
   4.2 Rope and bucket                                                                 43
   4.3 Bucket pump                                                                     45
   4.4 Rope pump                                                                       47
   4.5 Suction plunger handpump                                                        49
   4.6 Direct action handpump                                                          51
   4.7 Deep-well diaphragm pump                                                        53
   4.8 Deep-well piston handpump                                                       55
   4.9 Centrifugal pump                                                                58
   4.10 Submersible pump                                                               60
   4.11 Hydraulic ram pump                                                             62
5. Power systems                                                                       64
   5.1 Introduction                                                                    64
   5.2 Windmills                                                                       64
   5.3 Solar power system                                                              66
   5.4 Diesel generator                                                                68
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
iv


                6. Water treatment                               71
                   6.1 Introduction                              71
                   6.2 Boiling                                   75
                   6.3 Household slow sand filter                77
                   6.4 Water chlorination at household level     79
                   6.5 Storage and sedimentation                 81
                   6.6 Upflow roughing filter                    82
                   6.7 Slow sand filtration                      84
                   6.8 Chlorination in piped systems
                7. Storage and distribution                      90
                   7.1 Introduction                              90
                   7.2 Concrete-lined earthen reservoir          91
                   7.3 Reinforced concrete reservoir             93
                   7.4 Elevated steel reservoir                  94
                   7.5 Ferrocement tank                          96
                   7.6 Public standpost                          98
                   7.7 Domestic connection                      100
                   7.8 Domestic water meter
                8. Sanitation                                   103
                   8.1 Introduction                             103
                   8.2 Improved traditional pit latrine         105
                   8.3 Ventilated improved pit latrine          108
                   8.4 Double-vault compost latrine             111
                   8.5 Bored-hole latrine                       113
                   8.6 Pour-flush latrine                       114
                   8.7 Septic tank and aqua privy               117
                   8.8 Vacuum tanker                            119
                   8.9 Manual pit emptying technology (MAPET)   122
                   8.10 Soakaway                                124
                   8.11 Drainage field                          125
                   8.12 Small-bore sewerage system              126
                9. Bibliography                                 129
                                                                                     CONTENTS
                                                                                            v


Preface



The Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment 2000, a report prepared jointly by the
World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
indicated that nearly 1.1 billion (1100 million) people have no access to improved water
sources and that about 2.4 billion have no access to any form of improved sanitation
facilities, with the vast majority of these people living in developing countries. To achieve
the international development target of halving the percentage of people without access
to improved water supply or sanitation by the year 2015, an additional 1.6 billion people
will require access to water supply and about 2.2 billion will require access to sanitation
facilities by 2015, given the projected population increases. The task is huge and involves
a considerable increase in the level of investments made so far.
    A major concern for expanding water-supply and sanitation services is to select tech-
nologies and institutional options that users would be willing to pay for, and that would
also ensure good public health and sustainable environmental conditions. As suggested
by its title, the present document aims to help decision-makers identify the most appro-
priate technology for their situation, taking into account the conditions in the project
area. The document focuses on developing countries, and provides essential informa-
tion on the types of water-supply and sanitation technologies available, including de-
scriptions of the operation and maintenance requirements of the technologies, the actors
involved and the skills they must have or must acquire. It also addresses potential prob-
lems, including those that have been identified in prior water-supply and sanitation
projects.
    It is hoped that this contribution to sector development will be useful to bilateral,
multilateral and governmental agencies that are involved in choosing the water-supply
and sanitation technologies to be used in specific situations. The current document is a
revision of a previous version that was based on the results of several years of field-testing
different technologies and was prepared by the Operation and Maintenance Working
Group of the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council (c/o WHO).

José Hueb
World Health Organization
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
vi


                Acknowledgements



                This document is a revised version of a 1997 document. It has been prepared under the
                guidance of the Operation and Maintenance Network of the Water Supply and Sanita-
                tion Collaborative Council. Valuable advice and suggestions were given by all members
                of this network, especially José Hueb, the former Operation and Maintenance Network
                Coordinator, who coordinated the development of this manual.
                    The IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre undertook the preparation of
                this document, with professional inputs mainly from François Brikké and Maarten
                Bredero, supported by Catarina Fonseca, Tom de Veer, Jo Smet, Madeleen Wegelin and
                Jan Teun Visscher. Several manufacturers (e.g. of the Vergnet pump) and specialists also
                gave advice, including Jamie Bartram (WHO, Geneva), Rhonda Bower (SOPAC, Fiji),
                Carmelo Gendrano (Philippine Centre for Water and Sanitation, Philippines), Louise
                Halestrap (CAT, United Kingdom), Hans Hartung (FAKT, Germany), Patrick
                Kilchenmann (SKAT, Switzerland), Hilmy Sally (International Water Management Insti-
                tute, Sri Lanka), Kate Skinner (Mvula, South Africa), Felipe Solzona (CEPIS, Peru), Terry
                Thomas (DTU, United Kingdom), Claude Toutant (International Water Office Head-
                quarters, France). Malcolm Farley (Malcom Farley Associates, England) should be espe-
                cially thanked for his excellent comments to the final draft. The drawings were prepared
                by Marjan Bloem.
                    Special thanks are due to the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation,
                Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Italy, and the Directorate-General for
                International Cooperation, Government of The Netherlands, for their financial contri-
                bution towards the preparation of this project.
                                                                                1. INTRODUCTION
                                                                                             1


1. Introduction



1.1 The importance of operation and maintenance for water-supply and
    sanitation technologies
   In many developing countries, operation and maintenance (O&M) of small, community
   water-supply and sanitation systems has been neglected. Sanitation, in particular, is given
   much less attention in practice, even though “water-supply and sanitation improvements”
   are often mentioned together in project documents. This has led to some alarming sta-
   tistics, with an estimated 30%–60% of existing rural water-supply systems inoperative at
   any given time, and more than 2 billion people worldwide lacking access to any type of
   improved sanitation. The lack of such services is degrading for the affected people and
   has a serious impact on their health and well-being.
       Increasingly, however, governments, external support agencies and local communi-
   ties are recognizing the importance of integrating O&M components in all development
   phases of water-supply and sanitation projects, including the planning, implementation,
   management, and monitoring phases. National government plays a vital role in creating
   an “enabling environment” within which an O&M policy framework can be developed,
   one of the key elements of sustainability. Government can foster such an environment in
   a number of ways, including through legal provisions, regulations, education initiatives
   and training programmes, and by communicating information. If supportive O&M policy
   is not forthcoming from the central government, then support for O&M at the local level
   will be hindered. An important role of local government is to promote an awareness of
   national policies and to support community water-user committees. Both the project
   staff and the recipient communities should be made aware of the O&M implications, as
   the communities themselves have responsibilities in the management and O&M of their
   water-supply and sanitation systems. However, many local government departments have
   insufficient resources and are unable to provide effective support. Support by the local
   government may also be influenced by local politics.
       The roles and responsibilities of the actors involved in O&M need to be well defined,
   especially where governments are shifting from their traditional role as a services pro-
   vider to that of a facilitator of service provision. There has been a tendency to decentral-
   ize O&M activities and to encourage the private sector to get involved in both the
   construction and upkeep of water-supply and sanitation facilities. Although this trend
   could increase the flexibility of O&M activities and reduce costs, private sector involve-
   ment may be limited by the low profit margins, particularly in areas where rural commu-
   nities are scattered. Private-sector accountability is also a concern when there are no
   controls or regulations. Communities that contract services from the private sector need
   to ensure that the job is well done at a fair price. To some extent, the communities
   themselves can monitor the quality of the work, even though they may initially require
   assistance from the central government (e.g. from the national water agency). Neverthe-
   less, informal community-based monitoring is no substitute for developing government
   guidelines to ensure there are minimum-quality standards for the work, and that inter-
   ventions are cost-effective. It is also important that the guidelines be conveyed to the
   communities, since they have increasing responsibilities, not only in the O&M of their
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
2


                water-supply systems, but also in their financial management. Regulation, control and
                monitoring require extensive efforts and commitment by governments, and consider-
                able human and financial resources.
                    Sector professionals use a number of terms to describe affordable, simple technolo-
                gies that can be adapted to local conditions and be maintained by the communities them-
                selves. Such terms include: appropriate technology, progressive technology, alternative
                technology, village-level operation and maintenance management (VLOM) technology,
                intermediate technology, village technology, low-cost technology, self-help technology,
                technology with a human face. In this document, we propose to use the term “sustain-
                able technology at community level”, since this encompasses precisely the aims of this
                publication. Water-supply and sanitation projects should not be viewed as an end in them-
                selves, but as the initiators of benefits that continue long after the projects have been
                handed over to the community. However, to ensure that long-term benefits do, in fact,
                accrue, the projects must be sustainable, which means appropriate technologies must be
                selected, and O&M should be integrated into project development from the beginning.
                Although, community-based projects may take longer to develop than short-term, agency-
                managed projects, the longer development time can be used to identify factors that would
                influence service sustainability. Often, critical aspects of O&M development have been
                neglected in short-term, agency-managed projects. Effective O&M brings about impor-
                tant health benefits by sustaining accessible water supplies in adequate quantity and quality;
                by reducing the time and effort spent on water collection; by allowing better sanitation
                facilities to be provided; and by providing income-generating activities.
                    This document focuses exclusively on community water supply and sanitation in de-
                veloping countries (i.e. services that can be managed by communities in rural or low-
                income urban areas). It is designed to help planners and project staff select water-supply
                and sanitation technologies that can be maintained over the long term in rural and low-
                income urban areas. As has been repeatedly demonstrated worldwide, the selection of a
                particular technology can have far-reaching consequences for the sustainability of the
                services. For many years, technical criteria and initial investments were emphasized when
                choosing such technologies. Although these aspects are important, the roles of financial,
                institutional, social and environmental factors are also germane for ensuring the
                sustainability of services. In this manual, it is proposed that an O&M component be added
                to the selection process. With new actors, such as formal or informal private entrepre-
                neurs, becoming increasingly involved, O&M is no longer simply a technical issue. It is
                now seen as encompassing social, gender, economic, cultural, institutional, political,
                managerial and environmental aspects, and is viewed as a key factor for sustainability.


           1.2 Defining sustainability
                “Sustainability” is now commonly used in the jargon of development staff. In this docu-
                ment, we have adopted a definition of sustainability that was developed throughout the
                1990s. The definition is based on inputs from major conferences and events, and on
                field experience.
                    A service is sustainable when (IRC & WHO, 2000):
                    ■   It functions properly and is used.
                    ■   It provides the services for which it was planned, including: delivering the required
                        quantity and quality of water; providing easy access to the service; providing service
                        continuity and reliability; providing health and economic benefits; and in the case
                        of sanitation, providing adequate sanitation access.
                    ■   It functions over a prolonged period of time, according to the designed life-cycle
                        of the equipment.
                                                                                                             1. INTRODUCTION
                                                                                                                          3


                                ■   The management of the service involves the community (or the community itself
                                    manages the system); adopts a perspective that is sensitive to gender issues; estab-
                                    lishes partnerships with local authorities; and involves the private sector as required.
                                ■   Its operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, replacement and administrative costs
                                    are covered at local level through user fees, or through alternative sustainable fi-
                                    nancial mechanisms.
                                ■   It can be operated and maintained at the local level with limited, but feasible,
                                    external support (e.g. technical assistance, training and monitoring).
                                ■   It has no harmful effects on the environment.
           The importance of O&M for sustaining the level of services is illustrated in Figure 1.1
           with a project designed to raise community benefits from level “A” (benefits are unsatis-
           factory, or non-existent), to level “B”. The project cycle includes three main phases: i)
           planning and design; ii) construction; and iii) O&M. If O&M is unsatisfactory in phase
           iii) of the project cycle the level of benefits will not be sustainable.


Figure 1.1 Sustainability in the project cycle
            Levels of benefit




                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             3


                                A

                                    PLANNING & DESIGN PHASE                 CONSTRUCTION PHASE         O&M PHASE

                                1 & 2: Development reaches sustainability                                          Time
                                    3: Unsustainable development




    1.2.1 Factors that undermine the sustainability of improved services
           The following factors commonly undermine the sustainability of services:
                                ■   The project is poorly conceived (e.g. a project that only increased the number of
                                    water points, or sanitation facilities, as a way of improving accessibility to these
                                    services, without considering the wider range of factors needed to sustain the ben-
                                    efits).
                                ■   The project did not sufficiently involve the community, who therefore did not feel
                                    that the project was theirs. As a result, demand for the improved services suffered,
                                    and the services became unsustainable. Demand and community involvement (of
                                    both men and women) are key factors in generating long-term community com-
                                    mitment to improved services and in sustaining the services. Involvement also makes
                                    the community members responsible for the choice of technology and makes com-
                                    munity members aware of the financial, managerial and technical implications of
                                    their choice, including the future O&M tasks associated with the technology.
                                ■   The performance of the project facilities was either not assessed, or was insuffi-
                                    ciently monitored, during the O&M phase of the project cycle.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
4


          1.2.2 Factors that contribute to the sustainability of improved services
                Sustainability relies mainly on four interrelated factors: i) technical; ii) community; iii)
                environmental; and iv) the legal and institutional framework. A financial dimension
                underlies all of these factors.

                Technical factors
                    ■   Technology selection.
                    ■   Complexity of the technology.
                    ■   The technical capacity of the system to respond to demand and provide the de-
                        sired service level.
                    ■   The technical skills needed to operate and maintain the system.
                    ■   The availability, accessibility and cost of spare parts.
                    ■   The overall costs of O&M.

                Community factors
                    ■   The demand or perceived need for an improved service.
                    ■   The feeling of ownership.
                    ■   Community participation (men/women, social groups) in all project phases, in-
                        cluding planning, designing, constructing and managing the services, and in the
                        O&M of the services. Community members should also be involved in generating
                        demand for improved services.
                    ■   The capacity and willingness to pay.
                    ■   Management through a locally organized and recognized group.
                    ■   The financial and administrative capacity of management.
                    ■   The technical skills to operate and maintain the service, implement preventive
                        maintenance activities, and perform minor and major repairs are all present in the
                        community.
                    ■   Sociocultural aspects related to water.
                    ■   Individual, domestic and collective behaviour regarding the links between health,
                        water, hygiene and sanitation.

                Environmental factors
                    ■   The quality of the water source (this will determine whether the water needs to be
                        treated, and will influence the technology choice).
                    ■   Adequate protection of the water source/point.
                    ■   The quantity of water and continuity of supply.
                    ■   The impact of wastewater or excreta disposal on the environment.
                It is fundamentally important to integrate the water, hygiene and sanitation practices,
                because poor hygiene or inadequate access to sanitation facilities can jeopardize health
                benefits gained from improving access to water supplies.

                Legal and institutional framework
                All the above factors evolve within a legal and institutional framework. At national level,
                there must be clear policies and strategies that support sustainability. Support activities,
                such as technical assistance, training, monitoring, and setting-up effective financing
                mechanisms are all likely to influence the effectiveness of O&M.
                    In many developing countries, a decentralization process of the way in which institu-
                tions provide water-supply and sanitation services is being implemented. The main trends
                are towards letting the municipalities assume responsibility for the services, and towards
                involving the private sector (formal and informal) more actively in O&M. The changing
                                                                                      1. INTRODUCTION
                                                                                                    5


          role of local institutions requires that their capacities be strengthened. Decentralization
          without building local capacities may lead to a sector performance even worse than that
          before decentralization.
              Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are valuable counterparts in many planning
          and implementation activities. Public/private partnerships may also play an important
          role in O&M. Participation of the private sector may range from simple maintenance
          tasks, to the operation, maintenance and management of the entire system under well-
          regulated and controlled concession contracts.
              Communication between central and local levels of government, and between the
          water and sanitation institutions and the development agencies, will help to coordinate
          activities and implement policies. A proper information and monitoring system relies on
          effective communication.
              Capacity-building is needed at all levels, especially in a changing environment where
          new roles and responsibilities are introduced by new development processes.


     1.3 Organization of the document – Fact Sheets
          In Chapter 2, an overview is given of the selection process for community water-supply
          and sanitation technologies, with an emphasis on the role of O&M activities. The tech-
          nologies themselves are then described in Chapters 3–8, using Fact Sheets with a stand-
          ardized format (Figure 1.2). First, the technology is described, followed by the O&M
          activities associated with the technology. The actors involved and their roles are also
          discussed, as are the requirements and limitations of selected community water-supply
          and sanitation technologies currently in use in developing countries. The Fact Sheets
          can be copied or adapted to local circumstances, and discussed with communities dur-
          ing the technology selection process.


Figure 1.2 General format of Fact Sheets

              1. The technology.


              2. O&M activities.                                                            apron
                                                                      headwell




              3. Actors and skills.


              4. O&M technical requirements.


              5. Potential problems, and comments.



          The Fact Sheets were developed, based on the literature available in the documentation
          centre of the IRC Water and Sanitation Centre, as well as on suggestions and comments
          from sector specialists, and on sources available on the web. Not all water-source options
          are included in the Fact Sheets. For example, ponds, water harvesting from surfaces
          other than roofs, diversion dams, and many kinds of intake structures. These options
          often depend on specific local circumstances, and it would not be practical to describe
          all such circumstances here. Bibliographical references are provided for more details.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
6


           2. The technology selection process



           2.1 Introduction
                The technology selection process will depend on the basic strategy adopted by planners,
                and on general trends in the water and sanitation sector. Two basic principles outlined in
                this document are that communities need to be involved in selecting technologies from the start of the
                process, and that planners should adopt a demand-driven approach.
                    The provision of water-supply and sanitation improvements can be characterized as
                either demand-driven or resource-driven. With a resource-driven approach, the inter-
                vention area is selected with minimal involvement of the community, and the technology
                is based on global policies, or replicates a blueprint or successful experience elsewhere.
                There are several potential problems with this approach that could undermine the
                sustainability of projects. Such problems include lack of community acceptance and poorly-
                functioning improvements that are underused. O&M costs can also be a concern if the
                technology was introduced without involving the interested parties (i.e. the communi-
                ties) and without a proper analysis of local needs and conditions.
                    With a demand-driven project, by contrast, problems and needs are identified with
                the full participation of the communities. This may involve using extension workers to
                raise awareness in the communities prior to the start of the project. Communities can
                then choose a particular technology, with an understanding of the technical, financial
                and managerial implications of their choice. The advantages of such an approach are
                that the community is motivated to participate in the planning, construction and O&M
                phases, and that a community-based approach for managing the services will be better
                accepted and implemented. It is likely that a demand-driven approach will better foster
                a sense of ownership and responsibility.
                    Agencies, communities and users should therefore work together as partners, and
                agree upon planned activities. This has become particularly important, because users
                and communities are increasingly assuming the responsibilities of operating, maintain-
                ing and managing their water-supply and sanitation systems.


           2.2 Factors that influence the selection of community water-supply technology
                In this section, we review the general criteria, and criteria specific to O&M, that influ-
                ence the selection of water-supply technologies. These criteria have been grouped into
                five factors that reflect the wider context of O&M in providing improved water supplies
                (see Table 2.1)
                    Experience has shown that the effectiveness of O&M is not solely connected to engi-
                neering issues, and personnel involved in O&M assessment and development should
                cover a range of relevant disciplines: social development, economics, health, institutional
                and management aspects, and engineering. It is important that the process be consulta-
                tive and carried out in partnership with the operators and users of the services.
                    An economic alternative to investing in new water-supply projects is to rehabilitate
                defective services but, as with a new scheme, the rehabilitation option must include analyses
                of the community’s preferences and needs, and of the capacity of the community to
                                                                                2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                                                      7


    TABLE 2.1 FACTORS THAT INFLUENCE THE SELECTION OF COMMUNITY
              WATER-SUPPLY TECHNOLOGY
Factors of general relevance                              Factors specifically relevant to O&M
1. Technical factors
— demand (present and future consumption patterns)        —   dependence on fuel, power, chemicals;
  versus supply;                                          —   quality and durability of materials;
— capital costs;                                          —   availability of spare parts and raw materials;
— extension capacity;                                     —   O&M requirements;
— compatibility with norms and legal frameworks;          —   compatibility with users’ expectations and preferences
— compatibility with existing water-supply systems;           (both men and women);
— comparative advantages;                                 —   availability of trained personnel within the community;
— technical skills needed within, or outside, the         —   availability of mechanics, plumbers, carpenters and
  community.                                                  masons within and outside the community;
                                                          —   potential for local manufacturing;
                                                          —   potential for standardization.
2. Environmental factors
— availability, accessibility and reliability of water    — O&M implications of water treatment;
  sources (springs, ground water, rainwater, surface      — O&M implications of water source protection;
  water, streams, lakes and ponds);                       — existence and use of alternative traditional water
— seasonal variations;                                      sources;
— water quality and treatment;                            — O&M implications of wastewater drainage.
— water source protection;
— risk of a negative environmental impact.
3. Institutional factors
— legal framework;                                        — roles of different stakeholders and ability/willingness
— regulatory framework;                                     to take responsibilities for O&M;
— national strategy;                                      — availability of local artisans;
— existing institutional set-up;                          — potential involvement of the private sector;
— support from government, NGOs, external support         — training and follow-up;
  agencies (ESAs);                                        — availability and capacity of training;
— stimulation of private sector;                          — skills requirement;
— transferring know-how.                                  — monitoring.
4. Community and managerial factors
— local economy;                                          — managerial capacity and need for training;
— living patterns and population growth;                  — capacity of the organization;
— living standards and gender balance;                    — acceptance of the organizing committee by the
— household income and seasonal variations;                 community;
— users’ preferences;                                     — gender balance in committee;
— historical experience in collaborating with different   — perception of benefits from improved water supply;
  partners;                                               — the needs felt by the community;
— village organization and social cohesion.               — availability of technical skills;
                                                          — ownership.
5. Financial factors
—   capital costs;                                        — ability and willingness to pay;
—   budget allocations and subsidy policy;                — level of recurrent costs;
—   financial participation of users;                     — tariff design and level of costs to be met by the
—   local economy.                                          community;
                                                          — costs of spare parts and their accessibility;
                                                          — payment and cost-recovery system to be put in place;
                                                          — financial management capacity (bookkeeping, etc.)
                                                            of the community.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
8


                sustain the system (potentially with the support of the water agency). When assessing the
                potential for rehabilitation, the community and the agency together need to study the
                reasons for the system’s breakdown, analyse the problems involved, and formulate rec-
                ommendations for feasible alternatives to rehabilitate the system. Rehabilitation should
                not be confined to replacing broken equipment or infrastructure. It is also important to
                look into the reasons why the system was not sustained and is in need of rehabilitation,
                including poor management, lack of maintenance (especially preventive maintenance),
                lack of skilled personnel, poor-quality materials and equipment, etc.
                    If a risk analysis is carried out for each water-supply option, then an attempt can be
                made to anticipate factors that may change and affect O&M. This will not be easy, espe-
                cially in unstable economies where inflation and the availability of imported equipment
                and spare parts are difficult to predict. However, an indication of the risk attached to
                each option can be obtained by comparing the technologies.


           2.3 The selection process for community water-supply technology
                To help select the most appropriate technology, we propose that the selection process
                comprise five steps in which the factors associated with the technologies (Table 2.1) are
                considered. The steps are:
                    1.   Request improved services.
                    3.   Carry out a participatory assessment.
                    4.   Analyse data.
                    5.   Hold discussions with the community.
                    6.   Come to a formal agreement on the chosen technology.

                1. Request improved services
                The community requests support from a governmental agency, NGO, or ESA to improve
                the community water supply. The request should preferably be in writing and come from
                a recognized community group or community leader. The request may be preceded by
                promotion and mobilization campaigns.

                2. Carry out a participatory assessment
                The support agency carries out a participatory baseline survey that includes a needs and
                problem analysis with the community. All the points listed below should be addressed:
                    ■    Initial service level assumption – what is the adequate level of service, taking into
                         account both the users’ preferences (both men and women) and the environment?
                    ■    What are the advantages of the technology options?
                    ■    What are the motivations, expectations and preferences of the users (both men
                         and women)?
                    ■    What reliable water source is available?
                    ■    Can this source provide the required quantity and quality of water?
                    ■    What water treatment is needed?
                    ■    Can all social groups benefit from an improved water-supply system?
                    ■    What materials (and spare parts) and skills are needed to sustain the desired serv-
                         ice level?
                    ■    What is the ability and willingness of the community (all social groups) to pay for
                         the services?
                    ■    What is the management capacity of the community?
                    ■    What is the most appropriate structure to manage and sustain the desired service
                         level?
                    ■    What are the costs (capital and recurrent) of the options considered?
                                                          2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                           9


   ■   Are financial resources available?
   ■   What is the present approach to O&M within the programme or area?
   ■   What are the causes and effects of poor O&M within the area?
   ■   What technical, financial and capacity-building assistance can the communities
       expect?
   ■   What is the overall impact of the technology option selected?
   ■   What is the availability and capacity of local expertise?

3. Analyse data
An analysis of the field data collected by the agency will identify a range of technology
options and service levels. To choose the most appropriate technology, the options should
be weighed with respect to the following:

Technical aspects
   ■   Can the system supply an adequate quantity of water?
   ■   What is the most appropriate water-treatment system?
   ■   How much technical know-how is needed to operate and maintain the system?
   ■   What materials and spare parts are needed, and how often?
   ■   What technical design has been proposed?

Environmental factors
   ■   What are the seasonal variations in rainfall and how do they impact the availability
       and quality of water?
   ■   How is the water source to be protected?
   ■   How is wastewater to be managed?

Management capacity
   ■   What are the management options, including their contractual implications?
   ■   Is the know-how available to manage each system? The abilities of both men and
       women should be considered in this analysis.

Financial sustainability
   ■   What will the technology cost? The most appropriate technology is not necessarily
       the cheapest technology. A cheap technology can be costly in terms of mainte-
       nance, because it was constructed with low-quality materials, and it may be unable
       to meet demand. The cheapest solution acceptable to the community should be
       assessed both in terms of capital costs and O&M.
   ■   What are the recurrent costs of a technology?
   ■   What are the O&M and capital costs of the technology?
   ■   What is the cost-recovery system? The system should include shared financial re-
       sponsibilities; options for tariffs, and alternative financing in case the tariff does
       not cover all costs; and financial know-how.

4. Hold discussions with the community
Discussions should be held with the community on the technology options for the given
environmental, technical and social context. Each option should be presented and dis-
cussed, and all O&M implications, such as committing to the long-term management of
O&M, should be communicated. At the same time, any adjustments to be made to the
existing O&M system should be clearly stated, and the responsibilities of the actors in-
volved in developing the project should be defined.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
10


                5. Come to a formal agreement on the chosen technology
                Once the community has made an informed choice of technology, a formal agreement
                should be sought between the community and all involved partners. When formulating
                an agreement, the following questions should be considered:
                    ■   Is the technology and service level affordable, manageable and maintainable at
                        community level?
                    ■   Will all members benefit from the improved system?
                    ■   How can cost-recovery be organized?
                    ■   Who will take care of preventive maintenance, small repairs, big repairs?
                    ■   What type of support is still needed?
                    ■   What type of contribution is the community ready to give as an initial investment
                        (in cash or kind)?


           2.4 Factors that influence the selection of community sanitation technology
                In the past, many sanitation projects were developed according to a conventional, tech-
                nical approach, where the intervention and technology were determined by the imple-
                menting agency. Demand for sanitation was not assessed and there was little
                communication between the project planners and future users. Consequently, social,
                gender, cultural and religious aspects were not sufficiently considered when designing
                the project. In other cases, environmental factors were not considered in the design,
                which sometimes led to the collapse of pit walls and unsafe situations. In low-income
                urban areas, for example, where pit emptying is often a necessity, such services were
                often absent or could not be sustained, but this was not considered in the project design.
                Also, hygiene education to improve the sanitation behaviour of the community was rarely
                included in sanitation projects, because education and sanitation projects had different
                implementation time-scales.
                    As described above, the factors that influence the choice of sanitation technology can
                be categorized into technical, environmental, institutional and community factors (Ta-
                ble 2.2). To aid the technology selection process, the factors can be further classified as
                to whether they are of general relevance to the selection process, or specifically relevant
                to the O&M component. Sanitation interventions need to be planned with a compre-
                hensive approach, so that all these factors are properly addressed.
                    It is not always necessary to build a new sanitation facility: it may be possible to up-
                grade the existing system. The rationale for upgrading as the first option for improving
                sanitation is that the existing sanitation facilities reflect the social and cultural prefer-
                ences of the community, as well as the local economic and technical capacities. If exist-
                ing community facilities do not meet the basic requirements of hygiene, then upgrading
                such facilities should be considered first. If there are no sanitation facilities, then the
                most appropriate technology option should be considered, using the following selection
                process.


           2.5 The selection process for community sanitation technology
                The process of choosing a sanitation technology should include at least the following
                steps:


                1. Request improved services
                Again, the first step is for a community to request improved services. Once a demand for
                improved sanitation facilities has been expressed, technology selection should be pre-
                ceded by, or based upon, a participatory need assessment. Hygiene awareness and pro-
                motion campaigns can increase demand for improved sanitation facilities.
                                                                               2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                                               11


    TABLE 2.2 FACTORS THAT INFLUENCE THE SELECTION OF COMMUNITY
              SANITATION TECHNOLOGY
Factors of general relevance                             Factors specifically relevant to O&M
1. Technical factors
— design preference (substructure, floor slab,           —   O&M requirements;
  squatting or raised seat, superstructure);             —   ease of access;
— technical standards and expected lifetime of the       —   use of decomposed waste;
  technology;                                            —   pit-emptying technique.
— availability of construction materials;
— cost of construction.
2. Environmental factors
—   soil texture, stability, permeability;               — O&M implications for environmental protection;
—   groundwater level;                                   — protection against groundwater contamination;
—   control of environmental pollution;                  — protection from flooding.
—   availability of water;
—   possibility of flooding.
3. Institutional factors
—   existing national/local strategies;                  —   pit-emptying services (municipal/private);
—   roles and responsibilities of actors implied;        —   sewerage maintenance capacity;
—   training capacity;                                   —   potential involvement of the private sector;
—   availability of subsidies and loans;                 —   national budget allocations for sanitation;
—   availability of masons, carpenters, plumbers,        —   training and awareness education;
    sanitary workers, pit-emptiers and pit-diggers.      —   monitoring.
4. Community factors
— sociocultural aspects: taboos, traditional habits,     —   O&M costs;
  religious rules and regulations, cleansing material,   —   O&M training and awareness for sanitation;
  preferred posture, attitude to human faeces,           —   health awareness and perception of benefits;
  gender-specific requirements;                          —   presence of environmental sanitation committee;
— motivational aspects: convenience, comfort,            —   women’s groups;
  accessibility, privacy, status and prestige, health,   —   social mobilization on hygiene and sanitation
  environmental cleanliness, ownership;                      behaviour.
— discouraging factors: darkness, fear of falling in
  the hole, or of the pit collapsing, or of being seen
  from outside, smells; insect nuisance;
— social organization factors: role of traditional
  leadership, religious leaders, schoolteachers,
  community-based health workers;
— other factors: population densities, limited space
  for latrines, presence of communal latrines.



                    2. Carry out a participatory assessment
                    A participatory assessment should be carried out to determine if there are problems
                    related to: the existing human excreta-disposal system; hygiene and defecation behav-
                    iour (among men, women and children); the hygienic environment; and human ex-
                    creta-related diseases. Also necessary are: a participatory assessment of the cultural,
                    social and religious factors that influence the choice of sanitation technology; a partici-
                    patory assessment of local conditions, capacities and resources (material, human and
                    financial); and the identification of local preferences for sanitation facilities, and possi-
                    ble variations.

                    3. Analyse data
                    Data should be collected on all the factors listed in Table 2.2. Several criteria can help in
                    the analysis of the data and in choosing the design of the sanitation system:
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
12


                    ■   Match user preferences according to local capacities and environmental condi-
                        tions, such as whether there is the risk of contaminating water sources. The prefer-
                        ences of all users should be considered, including men, women and children.
                    ■   Match investment requirements to the costs of the technology and to the commu-
                        nity’s ability/willingness to pay.
                    ■   Match community needs to the availability of materials.
                    ■   Match the proposed design options to the availability of craftsmanship.
                    ■   Match O&M requirements to the prevailing sanitation behaviour and to local ca-
                        pacities.
                    ■   Identify promotional campaigns, micro-credit mechanisms and hygiene education
                        programmes that could accompany the technology selection and installation proc-
                        ess.

                4. Hold discussions with the community
                Discussions should be held with the community about sanitation options, and include
                discussions about the technical, environmental, financial and hygiene implications of
                each option.

                5. Select the technology
                The community should select the technology, with support from the agency. This will
                contribute to the sustainability of the technology and increase the number of commu-
                nity members who will use it.

                The improvement of sanitation facilities should be accompanied by Information, Educa-
                tion, Communication (IEC) activities to promote safe sanitation behaviour and proper
                hygiene. These activities have a longer time horizon than the physical improvement of
                structures. Schools, institutions, and religious and social community groups should play
                a prominent role in promoting proper hygiene and sanitation behaviour. Special atten-
                tion must also be paid to the technology design and its siting, to prevent the sanitation
                facilities from polluting the environment, particularly water resources and the immedi-
                ate living environment. Control measures must be carried out to minimize these risks.


           2.6 Assessing O&M needs
          2.6.1 O&M activities
                This section provides information on the O&M activities required for each technology.
                Within a specific technology, for example handpumps, the tools and activities needed
                for different brands of handpumps can be quite different. In such cases, the manufac-
                turer of the brand is identified. The activities described in the Fact Sheets give the main
                elements involved in day-to-day O&M for each technology. An important aspect of O&M
                is preventive maintenance, and if it is well-organized and implemented it can reduce the
                frequency of repairs, prolong the lifetime of a technology, and lower recurrent costs.
                    The description of each technology includes: the O&M activities required, and their
                frequency; the human resource needs; and the materials, spare parts, tools and equip-
                ment needed. This information shows the importance of O&M in terms of human and
                technical requirements. For example, activities and repairs are part of O&M and the
                frequency with which they need to be carried out depends largely on elements such as
                the quality of materials, the quality of workmanship during the construction phase, and
                the level of corrective and preventive maintenance carried out by the actors concerned.
                                                               2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                               13


2.6.2 Spare parts
     The lack of spare parts may be a major constraint in the sustainability of water supplies
     and can even lead to the water supplies being abandoned. A lack of spare parts can result
     from policies pursued by the donors, such as when hardware has to be purchased from
     the donor countries. Many donors, however, are only involved in the construction phase
     of the project and make no provision for continuing the supply of spare parts after hand-
     ing over the project to the community. Some donors have attempted to overcome the
     problem by supplying a stock of spares at the time of installation. But this is only a short-
     term remedy, because the absence of a supply system and the lack of foreign exchange
     means that stocks do not get replenished.
         Even when donors have bought and installed equipment already used within a coun-
     try, there has often been no consistent government or water-agency policy on standardi-
     zation. The outcome is a wide range of equipment, for which no water agency in a
     developing country can afford to stock a comprehensive range of spare parts. Spare parts
     availability and supply are therefore major considerations if water supplies are to be sus-
     tainable and suitable for community management.
         The availability of spare parts should be one of the main factors that determines the
     suitability of a particular technology. Before opting for a technology, the mechanism for
     supplying spare parts must be investigated, established and assured. Often, however, the
     issue of spare parts arises only after the technology has been selected and installed, which
     puts its sustainability at risk.
         The community will need to know the cost of running their water-supply and sanita-
     tion systems, and this will be determined partly by the demand for spare parts. Estimates
     may be based on previous experience, or on guidance from the manufacturers. Care
     must be exercised when using manufacturers’ figures for spare parts, since the need for
     spares will vary according to local circumstances. For example, the air filter for a diesel
     generator will require more frequent changes in a very dusty environment, compared to
     “standard” conditions. The extent of use, the care with which the equipment is used, and
     the effectiveness of preventive maintenance will all have an impact on the need for spare
     parts.
         Spare parts can be divided into three categories:
         — frequently needed spare parts, for which the accessibility should be as close as possi-
           ble to the village (shop, mechanic);
         — occasionally needed spare parts (every six months or every year), for which accessibil-
           ity can be at a nearby major centre;
         — major rehabilitation or replacement spare parts, for which accessibility can be at the
           local or regional level, or at the state capital.
     Several countries have chosen to standardize the choice of technology; this choice has
     positive as well as negative aspects, which should be carefully considered before applying
     such a policy.
         A principal guideline of the VLOM concept is that the supply of spare parts can be
     improved if the parts are manufactured within the country of use. The equipment should
     be designed so that the parts that wear out are simple to manufacture from readily-avail-
     able materials. Manufacturers can be encouraged to produce the equipment locally by
     mobilizing local entrepreneurs and by ensuring the right environment. Local businesses
     will need the appropriate licences to import raw materials, and tax policies should en-
     courage, rather than inhibit, local industry. Manufacturers in other sectors (e.g. plastics
     and steel) can also be encouraged to manufacture their products locally. The local manu-
     facture of spare parts depends on a supply of raw materials, consumables (e.g. welding
     rods) and machinery, and these factors should be taken into account when choosing a
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
14


     TABLE 2.3 PROS AND CONS OF STANDARDIZING TECHNOLOGY
FOR standardization                                          AGAINST standardization
— common use of the same item of equipment                   — the chosen technology does not fully respond to the
  encourages agencies and shopkeepers to store                 needs and preferences of users;
  and supply spare parts, because there is a                 — the market is closed to new, innovative and cheaper
  “guaranteed demand”;                                         technologies;
— standardization avoids the proliferation of brands         — there is little incentive for the private and research
  and technologies, which would make it easier to              sectors to become involved;
  stock and supply spare parts;                              — standardization limits price competition between
— the prices and market for spare parts can be more            different brands and impedes optimization;
  easily determined;                                         — limiting technology choice may conflict with donor
— users become familiar with one type of technology;           policies.
— personnel training can be standardized.



                 technology. The possibility of substituting materials can be investigated (e.g. using hard-
                 wood bearings instead of plastic bearings).
                    Output should satisfy demand, but as demand may be irregular, a stock of parts can
                 act as a buffer. However, this requires that capital be available at the beginning of pro-
                 duction for materials, labour, overhead costs and storage. A government subsidy or do-
                 nor grant can provide the initial kick-start. To ensure the compatibility and reliability of
                 parts, it may be necessary for the government to institute standards and an inspection
                 procedure.

          2.6.3 Roles and responsibilities1
                 Who is supposed to operate and finance the system? In theory, various actors could share
                 the financial burden of a water-supply and sanitation agency: users, government, NGOs,
                 donors, and so on. We propose that the financial responsibilities for a system should be
                 linked with the management and/or operational responsibilities. This will mean that for
                 each task required to manage, maintain and replace the water-supply system, there is
                 someone responsible for implementing the task, and someone responsible for financing
                 it. It may take time to transfer responsibilities during the transition period to a linked
                 system, and this should be taken into account in the planning process.


                 Example 1: handpump
                 This example illustrates a situation in which the community owns and manages the
                 handpump. For technical know-how and services, however, the community still depends
                 on specialized mechanics who have to be paid by the community. The transfer of re-
                 sponsibility to the community does not eliminate the responsibilities of the government
                 in areas such as water-quality surveillance, the development of an effective spare-parts
                 distribution system, and in rehabilitation and replacement. Unfortunately, water-quality
                 control is rarely (if at all) carried out in rural areas, and it might be necessary to monitor
                 water quality using simple equipment that communities can afford.




                 1
                     Extracts from: Brikké & Rojas (2001).
                                                                                    2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                                                    15


     TABLE 2.4 DISTRIBUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE O&M OF A HANDPUMPa
                                                                                       Operational       Financial
O&M tasks                                                                             responsibility   responsibility

—    monitor handpump use and encourage proper use;
—    check all nuts and bolts, and tighten if necessary;
—    measure output per stroke and compare with expected output;
—    check and adjust pump handle and stuffing box;                                                        
—    grease or oil all hinge pins, bearings, or sliding parts;
—    clean the pump, well head, concrete apron, and drainage area;
—    check well head, concrete apron, drainage area, and repair cracks;
—    record all O&M activities in a notebook.

— disassemble the pump and check the drop pipe, cylinder, leathers,
  and foot valve for corrosion and wear;                                                and               
— repair or replace parts, as necessary.

— conduct water tests for microbial contamination;                                      and            and 
— check the water level and test the well yield.

— in case of contamination, locate and correct the source of contamination,
  and disinfect;                                                                         or            and 
— adjust the cylinder setting if necessary;
— replace the entire handpump when worn out.

— manage a stock of spare parts, tools and supplies.                                         and  and 
a
    Source: Roark, Hodgkin & Wyatt (1993).
     = Community.  = Local mechanic/private sector.  = Government.




                     Example 2: pump, diesel engine and standpost
                     This system is manged by the community and the responsibilities are distributed through-
                     out the community. The government remains responsible for rehabilitation, replace-
                     ment, and water-quality control. The distribution of responsibilities should not stay the
                     same forever. To the contrary, if communities are to be fully empowered to carry out
                     their responsibilities, the financial responsibilities of community and government are
                     likely to change.

     TABLE 2.5 DISTRIBUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE O&M OF A PUMP,
               DIESEL ENGINE AND STANDPOSTa
                                                                                       Operational       Financial
O&M tasks                                                                             responsibility   responsibility

—    operate the engine daily in a safe and efficient manner;
—    perform regular checks and adjustments (fuel, oil, filters, belts, etc.);
—    regularly replace engine oil, filters and pump oil, as necessary;
—    check all pipelines, tanks and valves for leaks and breaks, and repair them;
—    monitor standpost use and encourage proper use;
—    check all standposts for leaks, wear and tear, and repair them if needed;                             
—    flush all pipes periodically;
—    clean the standpost concrete apron and drainage area, and make
     necessary repairs;
—    record all O&M activities in a log book;
—    manage a stock of fuel and oil, and ensure that it is properly stored
     and secured;
—    maintain a special fuel log;
—    develop schedules for preventive maintenance and monitoring.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
16


     TABLE 2.5 CONTINUED
                                                                                  Operational        Financial
O&M tasks                                                                        responsibility    responsibility

— perform regular checks and adjustments on alternator, starter, radiator,         and                
  valves and injectors.

— conduct water tests for microbial contamination, and locate and correct
  any sources of contamination;                                                    and             and 
— disinfect the system;
— establish historical records of all engines, pumps and other equipment.

— measure water output periodically, both at the well head and at the
  standpost;
— assess leakage and make necessary repairs;
— periodically conduct complete overhauls on engine, pumps and                     and             and 
  associated equipment;
— rehabilitate the engine/pump for the well, and/or replace it.

— manage a stock of parts, tools and supplies.                                          and  and 
a
    Source: adapted from Roark et al. (1993).
     = Community.  = Local mechanic/private sector.  = Government.




                      Example 3: administrative and support activities
                      This example shows how administrative tasks and support activities can be distributed
                      between the community and the government agency. The community can assume opera-
                      tional and financial responsibilities for most of the tasks that are directly related to the
                      community, or fall within the community’s boundaries. However, government agencies
                      or NGOs have operational responsibility for all support activities. In recent projects, com-
                      munities have also been asked to pay for support services once the project was handed
                      over. However, the debate is not yet closed on this issue.

     TABLE 2.6 DISTRIBUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
               AND SUPPORT ACTIVITIES LINKED TO O&Ma
                                                                                  Operational        Financial
Administrative and support tasks linked to O&M                                   responsibility    responsibility

— conduct technical and socioeconomic participatory studies.                       and *             *
— prepare annual budgets and long-term financial estimates;
— analyse O&M tasks for use in planning and budgeting;                             and *          and *
— collect, analyse and monitor results, and conduct follow-up support or
  training, as required.

— develop and evaluate technical and management training for water and
  sanitation system operators;
— develop and evaluate financial and management training for community
  managers;                                                                           *               *
— provide technical training for operators;
— provide financial and management training for community managers;
— develop simple information materials on hygiene education;
— provide technical and management support to community managers.
                                                                                 2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                                                  17


      TABLE 2.6 CONTINUED
                                                                                      Operational       Financial
Administrative and support tasks linked to O&M                                       responsibility   responsibility

—     select and appoint operators/contractors for O&M;
—     delegate task responsibilities;
—     supervise and pay salaries;
—     keep archives, inventories and log books;
—     collect water fees and manage revenues;                                                             
—     make payments for purchases, loans and other obligations;
—     respond to users’ complaints;
—     organize and conduct general meetings for discussions;
—     hold elections;
—     organize community contributions for upgrading or extending the system;
—     report urgent problems to the government agency.
a
    Source: adapted from Roark et al. (1993).
     = Community.  = Local mechanic/private sector. * = Government and/or NGOs.


                          In the next step, the distribution of operational and financial responsibilities should
                      be formalized in an agreement or contract that describes the rights and obligations of
                      each party, and defines the mechanisms for non-respect of the agreement.
                          In many countries, the water committee does not have proper legal status and is vul-
                      nerable to material, financial, contractual and legal problems. For this reason, any agree-
                      ments or contracts should include the status of the water committee. General legal status
                      is based on the following:
                          ■   The Municipality officially registers a Committee that has been elected by a Gen-
                              eral Assembly of users; a “constituting” Act must be produced by the Assembly.
                          ■   The Water Committee is registered at the Chamber of Commerce either as a non-
                              profit-making association, or as an association with an economic interest, which
                              then allows it to operate as a concession or under contractual arrangements with
                              local authorities.
                          ■   The Water Committee operates under the legal mandate of a Development Asso-
                              ciation.

              2.6.4 Partnership and management
                      Management models range from highly centralized government systems to localized com-
                      munity management. Typically, O&M management systems comprise stratified levels of
                      maintenance and repair bodies. A common model has the central government agency
                      on the first tier, the regional government or private body on the second tier, and the
                      community organization on the third tier. Traditional water supplies are managed by a
                      single-tier system of community management.
                          Past experience has shown that centralized, government-controlled systems of man-
                      agement have not always been able to sustain supplies. In contrast, the “partnership ap-
                      proach” is a more equal and supportive relationship between the community and external
                      organizations, which fosters joint decision-making and management from the start of
                      the project. This is essential if the choice of technology and the design of the scheme are
                      to meet the community’s needs and expectations, without exceeding the capacity of the
                      community to operate and maintain the system in the long term. The partnership starts
                      at the beginning of the project and continues through every stage of the project cycle,
                      from feasibility through construction, to the management of O&M. Partnership should
                      be seen as a flexible and evolutionary process, requiring continual dialogue. The sharing
                      of costs and responsibilities will vary according to the type and stage of development of
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
18


                the partnership. Some communities will want, and be able, to manage a major share of
                responsibilities from the outset. Others will need to start with a low level of responsibility
                and gradually build their expertise and confidence.
                    All communities are composed of people who vary by ethnicity, gender, socioeco-
                nomic status, religion, politics and age. One of the challenges of O&M management is to
                make sure that all groups are properly organized and work together, so as to ensure
                effective water-supply and sanitation services to the whole community. The degree of
                community cohesion can be a critical factor in determining the type of water supply and
                how it should be implemented and managed. For example, a divided community may
                not work happily together on the management of a common piped distribution system,
                whereas separate handpumps for each group might be acceptable. Conversely, the man-
                agement of a water supply might provide the opportunity for previously divided commu-
                nities to work together.
                    Communities can be compact villages or scattered settlements. The distribution of
                people in a community can have an important influence on the choice of water-supply
                technology, and on the O&M management system. For example, in a village that has
                developed along the line of a road, a handpump is likely to serve a limited number of
                people. Therefore, only a small section of the village may be interested in its manage-
                ment and in paying O&M contributions. This is likely to be the same for a borehole
                drilled on the edge of a large village, or within a widely scattered settlement. If the small
                user group is unable to fund handpump O&M, then a technology requiring lower main-
                tenance costs might be more appropriate (e.g. a protected dug well).
                    Piped supplies are often attractive to users because they reduce the time and effort
                users spend obtaining water. However, potential users may be reluctant to participate or
                contribute to a scheme if there appears to be no extra benefit. For example, people
                served with a non-protected well that provides sufficient quantities of water to the house-
                hold might not be willing to participate in funding the construction of a piped system.
                Their participation will require a good marketing campaign to highlight the advantages
                of a piped system.
                    The management of a large scheme that supplies several sections of a village or sev-
                eral communities is clearly more complex than the management of a single well. As far as
                capital costs are concerned, it may be more cost-effective to supply a large number of
                people with an extensive distribution network, than to have several smaller, piped net-
                works supplying individual groups or communities. However, extensive distribution
                schemes are only appropriate if all the communities can work together effectively. Fur-
                thermore, the O&M of large schemes will not necessarily be as cost-effective as small,
                community-managed schemes. Communities can benefit by working with others in loose
                cooperations or in formal associations. Success in one project can lead to success in
                others and the multiplier effect in a region can be significant.
                    Some projects have attempted to by-pass traditional leadership structures that have
                appeared unrepresentative to the agency staff. Sometimes, this has created problems,
                since the degree of user representation through such traditional decision-making bodies
                will determine the extent to which all members of a community can be involved. Outsid-
                ers must be careful not to miss the informal consultation mechanisms that lie behind
                many formal bodies, such as the informal representation of women’s views through wom-
                en’s networks and leaders.

          2.6.5 Recurrent costs
                It is difficult to find comparable and accurate data on recurrent costs. Indeed, calcula-
                tions of recurrent costs vary widely from one project or country to another and include
                different items. Moreover there are large differences in wage, equipment and material
                                                           2. THE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION PROCESS
                                                                                                 19


costs. Nevertheless, even though data may only        BOX 2.1
be valid for the context in which a particular
project has been developed, they can give an          Estimating basic recurrent
                                                      costs
idea about the importance of these costs. How-
ever, it is advised to use such figures with cau-     ■ list all necessary O&M activities, as
tion, and to actually measure recurrent costs         well as the frequency with which they
for specific projects in the following way:           will be needed;
    This basic recurrent cost estimation does         ■ for each activity, list all the human
not include elements, such as depreciation,           resources, materials, spare parts, en-
replacement costs, initial capital reimburse-         ergy, tools and equipment required;
ment, training costs, environmental protec-           ■ estimate how much of each item is
tion costs, etc. Depending on the strategy and        needed;
policy of projects, these additional costs might
                                                      ■ define the activity cost for each item;
have to be included in the final total of recur-
rent costs.                                           ■ add up the costs of all activities.
    Another difficulty is that recurrent costs are
presented in different ways in the literature:
cost per m3, cost per capita, cost per year, cost per household. The most relevant way to
present recurrent costs for community-managed water-supply systems would be the cost
per household, since households are the basic economic unit and costs could be com-
pared to the affordability of households. However, cost/m3 can allow a better compari-
son between projects and countries, since the size of households and their consumption
can vary greatly from one country to another.
    The recent trend is to ask the users to pay for many of the direct and local-level costs
of O&M. Additional funds are also required to provide agency support (e.g. payment of
extension staff, training and monitoring). Even though a community may contribute to
the direct O&M costs, funds may still be required to cover agency costs incurred from
supporting O&M activities. It is common practice for support costs to be subsidized by
the government and external agencies. However, if sustainability is to be achieved, full
coverage of O&M costs is the goal to be pursued. Communities are expected to contrib-
ute both the direct and support costs of O&M, especially if replacement costs have to be
included.
    O&M costs can only be recovered from
                                                      BOX 2.2
users if they are both able and willing to pay
for the water-supply and sanitation services. It      Factors that influence the
is commonly accepted that people should not           willingness of users to pay
have to pay more than 3%–5% of their income            ■ income;
for water and sanitation services, though ac-          ■ service level;
tual payments vary greatly. A higher percent-          ■ quality of service;
age of income expended on water will mean              ■ perceived benefits;
that other important needs may not be fully            ■ opportunity costs;
met. Great care is therefore required when             ■ acceptability of the existing source;
setting users’ tariffs and contributions.              ■ community cohesion;
                                                       ■ policy environment;
    Even if users can afford to meet the O&M
                                                       ■ perception of ownership and respon-
costs they may still be unwilling to pay. Before
                                                         sibility;
committing themselves to paying for a tech-            ■ institutional framework.
nology, people will want to weigh the cost of
an improved supply against a range of factors
(Box 2.2).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
20


           3. Water sources and intakes



            3.1 Introduction
                In Chapters 3–7, the technologies used in water-supply systems are considered in se-
                quence, from the water source to the points of supply: water sources and intakes (Chap-
                ter 3); water-lifting devices (Chapter 4); power technologies (Chapter 5); water treatment
                (Chapter 6); storage and distribution (Chapter 7). The technologies for each these sub-
                systems must function properly to ensure a reliable water supply, and for the water-sup-
                ply system to be sustainable the O&M requirements of each technology must be fully
                met. The O&M implications of the most common technologies for each subsystem are
                described, but the intention is not to compare manufacturers or their equipment. It is to
                provide information about the O&M implications of the different technologies that is
                independent of the technology origin.
                    When choosing a technology, the rationale for using a particular water source should
                be considered. Several types of water sources, such as wells, ponds, rivers or springs are
                traditionally used for different purposes and they may not be operational all year. Some
                water sources are more reliable, convenient, or provide water that tastes better. If users
                percieve an “improvement” as something “worse” in any one aspect, they may return to
                their traditional, contaminated source. Chlorinating water, for instance, may introduce
                odour or taste and it may be necessary to explain the need for chlorination to users.
                    The following list of community water sources and intake technologies is not exhaus-
                tive, but represents those most commonly found in developing countries:

                Rainwater
                   — rooftop rainwater harvesting (section 3.2);
                   — catchment and storage dams (section 3.3).

                Groundwater
                  — springwater collection (section 3.4);
                  — dug well (section 3.5);
                  — drilled wells (section 3.6);
                  — subsurface harvesting systems (section 3.7).

                Surface water
                   — protected side intake (section 3.8);
                   — river-bottom intake (section 3.9);
                   — floating intake (section 3.10);
                   — sump intake (section 3.11).

                Each of these technologies is reviewed in the Fact Sheets in the following pages, with an
                emphasis on the O&M implications.
                                                                              3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                       21


 3.2 Rooftop rainwater harvesting1
3.2.1 The technology
     Rooftop catchment systems gather rain-
     water from the roofs of houses, schools,
     etc., using gutters and downpipes (made
     of local wood, bamboo, galvanized iron
     or PVC), and lead it to storage contain-
     ers that range from simple pots to large
     ferrocement tanks. If properly designed,
     a foul-flush device or detachable down-
     pipe can be fitted that allows the first 20
     litres of runoff from a storm to be di-
     verted from the storage tanks. The run-
     off is generally contaminated with dust,
     leaves, insects and bird droppings. Some-
     times the runoff is led through a small
     filter of gravel, sand and charcoal before
     entering the storage tank. Water may be
     abstracted from the storage tank by a tap,           Figure 3.2 Rooftop catchment
     handpump, or bucket-and-rope system
     Initial cost: In Southern Africa, US$ 320 for a system with 11 m of galvanized iron gutter;
     a 1.3 m3 galvanized iron tank; downpiping; tap and filters; cost does not include trans-
     portation (Erskine, 1991). Where roofs are not suitable for water harvesting, the cost of
     roof improvement and gutters will have to be added to the cost of a tank. Such costs
     varied from US$ 4 per m2 (Kenya, subsidized) to US$ 12 per m2 (Togo) (Lee & Visscher,
     1992).
     Yield: Almost 1 litre per horizontal square meter per millimetre of rainfall. The quanti-
     ties are usually sufficient only for drinking purposes.
     Area of use: In most developing countries with one or two rainy seasons (especially in
     arid and semi-arid zones, with an average annual rainfall ranging from 250 mm to 750
     mm) and where other improved water-supply systems are difficult to implement.


3.2.2 Main O&M activities
     Operations consist of taking water from the storage tank by tapping, pumping or using a
     bucket and rope. Where there is no foul-flush device, the user or caretaker has to divert
     away the first 20 litres at the start of every rainstorm, and keep the rooftop clean. Just
     before the start of the rainy season, the complete system has to be checked for holes and
     for broken or affected parts, and repaired as necessary. Taps or handpumps (if used)
     have to be serviced. During the rainy season, the system should be checked regularly and
     cleaned when dirty. The system should be also checked and cleaned after every dry pe-
     riod of more than one month. The outsides of metal tanks may need to be painted about
     once a year. Leaks have to be repaired throughout the year, especially from leaking tanks
     and taps, as they present health risks. Chlorination of the water may be necessary.
         All O&M activities can normally be carried out by users of the system. Major repairs,
     such as a broken roof or tank, can usually be carried out by a local craftsman using
     locally-available tools and materials. Maintenance is simple, but should be given careful
     attention.

     1
         Pacey & Cullis (1986); Lee & Visscher (1990, 1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
22


                         It is more difficult to organize the O&M of shared roof or ground-tank supplies than
                    it is for privately-owned systems. Rooftop-harvesting systems at schools, for instance, may
                    lose water from taps left dripping. Padlocks are often needed to ensure careful control
                    over the water supply. Ideally, one person should be responsible for overseeing the regu-
                    lar cleaning and occasional repair of the system, control of water use, etc. One option is
                    to sell the water, which ensures income for O&M and for organizing water use. Where
                    households have installed a communal system (e.g. where several roofs are connected to
                    one tank), the users may want to establish a water committee to manage O&M activities.
                    The activities may include collecting fees, and controlling the caretaker’s work and the
                    water used by each family. External agents can play a role in the following O&M areas:
                         —   monitoring the condition of the system and the water quality;
                         —   providing access to credit facilities for buying or replacing a system;
                         —   training users/caretakers for management and O&M;
                         —   training local craftsmen to carry out larger repairs.


3.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Close taps after taking water, keep system clean.                                         ☺
Caretaker.               Check functioning, divert first flush, clean filters and rest of                          
                         system, perform small repairs.

Local craftsman.         Repair roof, piping and tank.                                                           
External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide local organization,                            
                         train users.

In case of community-owned system

Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, collect fees, and pay bills.                                     
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



3.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools required

 1–3 times per year
— clean the system.                           Disinfectant.                                 Broom, brush, bucket.

 Every six months
— clean and disinfect the reservoir.          Disinfectant.                                 Bucket.

 Every storm
— divert the foul flush.

 Occasionally (as the need arises)
— repair the roof, gutters                    Depending on the type of roof: tiles,   Hammer, saw, pliers, tin-cutter.
  and piping;                                 metal sheet, asbestos cement sheet,
                                              etc.; bamboo or PVC pipes; nails; wire.

— repair the tap or pump;                     Washers, cupseals, etc.                       Spanner, screwdriver.

— repair the ferrocement reservoir;           Cement, sand, gravel, metal mesh.             Wire trowel, bucket, pliers.

— paint the outsides of metal                 Anticorrosive paint.                          Steel brush, paintbrush.
  reservoirs.
                                                                     3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                              23


3.2.5 Potential problems
           — corrosion of metal roofs, gutters, etc.;
           — the foul-flush diverter fails because maintenance was neglected;
           — taps leak at the reservoir and there are problems with the handpumps;
           — contamination of uncovered tanks, especially where water is abstracted with a rope
             and bucket;
           — unprotected tanks may provide a breeding place for mosquitoes, which may in-
             crease the danger of vector-borne diseases;
           — during certain periods of the year, the system may not fulfil drinking-water needs,
             making it necessary to develop other sources, or to go back to traditional sources
             during these periods;
           — often, households or communities cannot afford the financial investment needed
             to construct a suitable tank and adequate roofing.


 3.3 Catchment and storage dams1
3.3.1 The technology
     Water can be made available by dam-
     ming a natural rainwater catchment
     area, such as a valley, and storing the
     water in the reservoir formed by the
     dam, or diverting it to another reservoir.
     Important parameters in the planning
     of dams are: the annual rainfall and
     evaporation pattern; the present use and
     runoff coefficient of the catchment area;
     water demand; and the geology and ge-
     ography of the catchment area and
     building site. Dams can consist of raised
     banks of compacted earth (usually with
     an impermeable clay core, stone aprons
     and a spillway to discharge excess run-
     off), or masonry or concrete (reinforced Figure 3.3 A small dam
     or not). In this manual, we refer only to
     dams less than a few metres high. The water stored behind a dam should normally be
     treated before entering a distribution system.
     Initial cost: This depends on local circumstances. The cost of a 13 000 m3 rock catchment
     in Kenya was US$ 1.60 per m3 of storage volume. The corresponding cost of a 30 000 m3
     earth dam in Tanzania was US$ 1.90, and only US$ 0.20 for an 80 000 m3 earth dam in
     Mali.
     Dimensions: Usually, no more than a few metres high, or as low as one metre. The width
     can be from a few metres to hundreds of metres.
     Area of use: Mostly in hilly or mountainous regions where other water sources are scarce.
     Design: If the dams are to be higher than a few metres it is recommended that commu-
     nity members ask specialized engineers to design the dams.




     1
         Lee & Visscher (1990, 1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
24


             3.3.2 Main O&M activities
                    Caretaker operations can include activities such as opening or closing valves or sluices in
                    the dam, or in conduits to the reservoir. The actual water collection from water points is
                    usually carried out by the users themselves, often women and children.
                        If the water is for human consumption, cattle and people should be kept away from
                    the catchment area and reservoir all year round. This can be helped by having a watch-
                    man patrol regularly, and by fencing off the area. Water should be provided to users
                    through a treatment plant and a distribution system with public standpipes or household
                    connections. The dam, valves, sluices and pipelines have to be checked for leaks and
                    structural failures. If repairs cannot be carried out immediately, the points of failure
                    should be marked. The catchment area must also be checked for contamination and
                    erosion. To control erosion, grass or trees could be planted just before the rainy season,
                    and a nursery may have to be started.
                        Once a year, the reservoir may be left to dry out for a short period to reduce the
                    danger of bilharzia. The reservoir, silt traps, gutters, etc., must be de-silted at least once a
                    year. To control mosquito breeding and the spread of malaria, Tilapia fish can be intro-
                    duced in the reservoir (every year if it runs dry).
                        For a properly functioning and sustainable surface harvesting system, the users will
                    need to establish an organization that can deal with issues, such as:
                         — the water consumption allowed for each user;
                         — preventing unauthorized use by passers-by;
                         — preventing water contamination;
                         — inequitable abstraction;
                         — solving upstream-downstream conflicts (e.g. where the system has altered the natu-
                           ral hydrology);
                         — O&M activities and their financing;
                         — agreements on contributions by each household towards the O&M of the system
                           (e.g. should they be in cash, kind or labour).
                    A person who lives or farms near the site could be appointed for O&M tasks at the reser-
                    voir and the catchment area. If users get their water at or near the reservoir, this person
                    could also be made responsible for water allocation, and be involved in monitoring ac-
                    tivities. The authority of this person should clearly be accepted by the users of the system.


3.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                                   Skills

Users.                   Keep the catchment area clean, carry out preventive maintenance.                          ☺
Caretaker.               Perform small repairs.                                                                    
Water committee.         Organize repairs and cleaning, collect fees.                                              
Local technician.        Repair concrete, masonry and piping.                                                    
External support.        Provide support for checking the water quality of the system,                           
                         motivate and guide local organization.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.
                                                                                  3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                            25


3.3.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                 Materials and spare parts           Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check for leaks, damage,
  erosion, etc.

 Occasionally
— repair leaks in the dam;             Clay, cement, sand, gravel.         Hoes, spades, buckets, trowels, etc.

— repair or replace valves.            Washer, spare valve.

 Annually
— de-silt the dam, conduits,                                               Hoes, spades, buckets,
  silt traps, etc.                                                         wheelbarrows, etc.



            3.3.5 Potential problems
                     — contamination of the water by chemical spraying, overgrazing, industry and the
                       agro-industry, land clearing, settlements, animal excrement, etc;
                     — waterborne and water-related diseases, such as bilharzia and malaria;
                     — the reservoir silts up;
                     — earth dams can be damaged by cars, animals or people walking over them;
                     — dams and reservoirs become undermined by seepage, rodents or other causes;
                     — the dam fails or collapses, causing injury, because it was poorly designed or be-
                       cause the amount of runoff was larger than had been forseen and planned for;
                     — where demand is high and rainfall is low or irregular, large catchment areas and
                       dams are needed;
                     — if the local soil and geographical conditions are not favourable, it may be expen-
                       sive to transport the materials needed to construct the dam (e.g. clay, sand, gravel);
                     — catchment areas are unsuitable if there is no proper site for the dam or reservoir,
                       such as when the ground does not provide a strong enough foundation for the
                       dam and does not prevent seepage;
                     — the dam or reservoir will be too large (and expensive) if the depth-to-surface ratio
                       is too small, or if percolation or evaporation losses are too great;
                     — the investment in labour, cash and/or kind needed to implement and/or main-
                       tain the surface harvesting systems may be beyond the capacity of communities;
                     — if densely-populated centres or important infrastructures are located downstream
                       of a potential construction site for a dam, security reasons may rule out using the
                       site;
                     — the taste of drinking-water varies between catchment areas and this can affect
                       whether users accept the system, since they value the taste of drinking-water highly.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
26


           3.4 Springwater collection1
          3.4.1 The technology
                Springwater is groundwater that surfaces
                naturally. Where solid or clay layers block
                the underground flow of groundwater,
                it is forced upward and can come to the
                surface. Springwater may emerge either
                in the open as a spring, or invisibly as an
                outflow into a river, stream, lake or the
                sea. Springwater is usually fed from a
                sand or gravel, water-bearing, ground
                formation (aquifer), or from water flow-
                ing through fissured rock. If the collec-
                tion point is protected with a suitable
                structure, this will prevent contamina-
                tion at the point of collection and pro-
                vide the hydraulic conditions for
                distributing the water to points of use.
                The main parts of a springwater collec-
                tion system are:
                      — a drain under the lowest natural
                        water level;                        Figure 3.4 Springwater collection
                      — a protective structure at the
                        source, for stability;
                      — a seal to prevent surface water from leaking back into the stored water.
                The drain is usually placed in a gravel pack covered with sand, and may lead to a conduit
                or a reservoir. The protective structure may be made of concrete or masonry, and the
                seal is usually made of puddled clay and sometimes plastic. A screened overflow pipe
                guarantees that the water can flow freely out of the spring at all times. To prevent con-
                tamination by infiltration from the surface, a ditch (known as the interceptor drain)
                diverts surface water away from the spring box, and a fence keeps animals out of the
                spring area. Usually, springwater is of good quality, but this should be checked. In one
                case, the springwater came from a polluted stream that had gone underground; in an-
                other, the catchment area was contaminated. Unprotected springs are almost always con-
                taminated at the outlet.
                Initial cost: Capital costs vary considerably and depend on many factors. In Nepal, a
                relatively large spring box serving 150 households (with facilities for washing clothes)
                was constructed for about US$ 1000, including costs for unskilled labour (Rienstra, 1990).
                In Kenya, minor structures for an average of 110 people were constructed at a cost of
                US$ 200, the price including a headwall, backfill, fencing, and labour and transportation
                costs. Major spring structures for an average of 350 people cost about US$ 400, also
                including a spring box (Nyangeri, 1986).
                Yield: From less than 0.1 litres/s to many litres/s.
                Area of use: Springwater collection systems are constructed on site, often by local crafts-
                men.




                1
                    Jordan (1984); Nyangeri (1986); WEDC (1991).
                                                                      3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                               27


3.4.2 Main O&M activities
     In many cases, springs are communally owned. Users may need to establish an organiza-
     tion that can effectively deal with issues, such as the control or supervision of water use,
     preventing water contamination, O&M activities, financing O&M, and monitoring water
     quality and systems performance. Proper management may also contribute to prevent-
     ing social conflict over these and other issues. Someone who lives or farms near the
     spring site could be appointed to carry out O&M tasks at the site. If users obtain water at
     or near the site, this person could also be made responsible for water allocation and be
     involved in monitoring activities. His or her authority should be clear and accepted by all
     users.
        The main O&M activities are:
         — water should be allowed to flow freely all the time, to prevent it from finding an-
           other way out of the aquifer;
         — opening or closing valves, to divert the water to a reservoir, a conduit or a drain;
         — keeping the spring and surrounding areas clean.
     Contamination should be prevented, both where the springwater infiltrates the ground,
     and in the area immediately surrounding the spring. Contamination can come from
     many sources, including from open defecation, latrines, cattle, pesticides and chemicals.
     The following tasks are envisaged:
         — check surface drains;
         — check and repair animal-proof fences and gates;
         — check and protect the vegetative cover, both where the springwater infiltrates the
           ground, and in the immediate surroundings of the spring;
         — prevent vegetative growth in the immediate surroundings of the spring, since the
           roots can clog the aquifer.
     Water flow from the spring box should be checked. If there is an increase in turbidity or
     flow after a rainstorm, the contaminating surface run-off has to be identified and the
     protection of the spring improved. If the water flow decreases, it is likely that the collec-
     tion system has become clogged. It may be necessary to replace the gravel or, in the case
     of a seep collection system, to clean the collection pipes. The following tasks are com-
     mon:
        — regular water samples must be taken and analysed for evidence of faecal contami-
            nation;
        — the washout should be opened annually and the accumulated silt removed;
        — screens should be checked and if they are damaged or blocked they should be
            cleaned (if dirty) or replaced with non-rusting materials (e.g. copper or plastic
            screening);
        — after cleaning, the washout valve should be fully closed and the seal on the man-
            hole cover replaced;
        — the spring box should be disinfected each time a person has entered to clean or
            repair it;
        — the effluent water should be disinfected, especially if there is a likelihood of bacte-
            riological contamination;
        — leaks in the protective seal must be repaired, as must damage caused by erosion or
            by the soil settling, which could undermine the headwall.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
28


3.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Report malfunctions, keep the site clean, assist in major repairs.                        ☺
Caretaker.               Keep the site clean, check for damage, perform small repairs.                             
Water committee.         Organize bigger repairs, control the caretaker’s work.                                  
Mason.                   Repair masonry or concrete.                                                             
External support.        Check the water quality, guide and motivate local organization.                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



3.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity                                      Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Weekly
— clean the well surroundings.                                                              Broom, bucket, hoe, machete.

 Regularly
— check the water quality.                    Laboratory chemicals.                         Laboratory equipment.

 Occasionally
— check the water quantity;                                                                 Bucket, watch.

— repair the fence and clean                  Wood, rope, wire.                             Machete, axe, knife, hoe, spade,
  surface drains;                                                                           pickaxe.

— repair the piping and valves.               Spare pipes and valves, cement,               Bucket, trowel, wrench,
                                              sand, gravel.                                 flat spanners.

 Annually
— wash and disinfect the spring;              Chlorine.                                     Bucket, wrench, brush.

— repair cracks.                              Cement, sand, gravel, clay.                   Bucket, trowel, hoe, spade,
                                                                                            wheelbarrow.

 After each flood
— check turbidity.


             3.4.5 Potential problems
                         — the spring box collapses owing to poor design, construction errors, large surface
                           run-offs, or damage caused by people or animals;
                         — leaks occur in the box, taps or valves;
                         — the springwater becomes contaminated because of cracks in the seal, or because
                           of inappropriate behaviour by the users;
                         — piping becomes damaged because of faulty construction, abuse or corrosion;
                         — surface runoff, outflow or wastewater do not drain properly;
                         — pipes become clogged because of silting or plant roots;
                         — poor accessibility for water users;
                         — the springs may not deliver enough water, or become dry during certain parts of
                           the year;
                         — not all springs produce clean water and of acceptable taste;
                         — the springs may be too far from the households or on privately-owned land;
                         — some springwater may be corrosive.
                                                                           3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                       29


3.5 Dug well1
3.5.1 The technology
     A dug well gives access to a groundwater
     aquifer and facilitates its abstraction.
     Dug wells can be entered for cleaning
     or deepening, and they will rarely be less
                                                                                               apron
     than 0.8 m in diameter. There are two                      headwell

     main types of dug wells:
     Unprotected wells. These are hand-dug
     holes that are not usually lined and have
     no effective protection above ground. As
     a result, they are very susceptible to con-
     tamination. Unprotected wells will not
     be further discussed in this Fact Sheet.
     Protected wells. These are wells that are
     dug by hand or by machinery, and con-
     sist of the following main parts:            Figure 3.5 Protected dug well
           — a stone, brick or concrete apron;
           — a headwall (the part of the well lining above ground) at a convenient height for
             collecting water;
           — a lining that prevents the well from collapsing.
     The apron prevents polluted water from seeping back down the sides of the well, pro-
     vides a hard standing area for users, and directs spillage away from the well to a drainage
     channel. The covered headwall prevents spilt water, rainfall, runoff, debris, people and
     animals from entering or falling inside the well and keeps sunlight out.
        The well lining between the ground level and the water level is made of reinforced
     concrete rings, masonry with bricks or concrete blocks, etc., and prevents the well from
     collapsing. The well lining beneath the water level also facilitates the entry of groundwater
     into the well, and is usually perforated with small holes, or has a different composition
     (e.g. permeable concrete) from the lining above the groundwater level. In consolidated
     formations the lining may not be necessary. In such cases, at least the top one metre of
     the well should be lined to prevent any contaminated surface water from draining into
     the well.
        Other components often found in a protected well are:
           — a drain to guide spilt water farther away from the well, usually towards a soakaway
             filled with large stones where the water can infiltrate back into the ground, or
             evaporate from the stone surfaces at a safe distance from the well;
           — a fence that surrounds the well, with a gate for access.
     The expected life of a modern dug well is at least 50 years.
     Initial cost: Capital costs vary considerably and depend on many factors. In the Sahel
     region, the average cost for a dug well 1.8 m in diameter and 20 m deep (5 m under
     water) was about US$ 8200 (Debris & Collignon, 1994). In Ghana, an 8 m-deep well with
     an apron cost US$ 820 (Baumann, 1993a).
     Range of depth: From a few metres to over 50 m.
     Yield: About 5 m3 per day is good.

     1
         Nyangeri (1986); WEDC (1991); Debris & Collignon (1994).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
30


                     Area of use: Areas where water of adequate quality can be abstracted in sufficient quan-
                     tity throughout the year from an aquifer within about 50 m from the surface (sometimes
                     deeper), and where other water systems are less suitable.

                3.5.2 Main O&M activities
                     Maintenance activities may include:
                         — checking the well daily and removing any debris in the well;
                         — cleaning the concrete apron;
                         — checking the fence and drainage, and repairing or cleaning as needed;
                         — draining the well at the end of the dry season by taking as much water out as
                           possible, removing debris from it and cleaning off algae using a brush and clean
                           water, repairing where necessary, and then disinfecting the well;
                         — deepening and lining the well (if it has run dry or does not yield enough water);
                         — checking the concrete apron and the well lining above groundwater for cracks or
                           other ruptures and repairing them if necessary;
                         — checking the apron for signs of erosion or settling, which could undermine it.
                     No latrines or other sources of contamination should be constructed within 30 m of the
                     well, unless hydrogeological studies demonstrate that it is safe to do so. Maintenance can
                     normally be carried out by the users of the system, or by a caretaker or watchman; larger
                     repairs may require skilled labour, which can usually be provided by local craftsmen.
                     When the wells are for community use, the community may need to establish a water
                     committee to deal with issues such as: controlling or supervising water use; preventing
                     water contamination; carrying out O&M activities; financing O&M; and monitoring the
                     water quality. Proper management of communal wells is important and can help to pre-
                     vent social conflicts. With individual wells, O&M is arranged by the users themselves.
                        Because the number of O&M activities required is limited and usually costs little, they
                     should not be overlooked and should be given ample attention. For example, many wells
                     have been abandoned because they were contaminated or had collapsed owing to a lack
                     of maintenance. With regular O&M, it might be possible to restore some of these wells to
                     use for relatively little cost.


3.5.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                                   Skills

Water user.              Keep the site clean, assist with major maintenance tasks.                                 ☺
Caretaker.               Monitor water use, keep the site clean.                                                   
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, organize major maintenance,                                      
                         collect fees.

Mason.                   Repair the lining, headwall and apron of the well.                                      
Specialized              Deepen the well.                                                                        
well-builder.

External support.        Check the water quality, motivate and guide users’ organization.                       
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
                                                                                       3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                31


3.5.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                  Materials and spare parts            Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the well site.                                                       Bucket, broom.

 Annually
— clean the well;                                                            Brush, bucket, ropes.

— repair the apron, headwall and        Cement, sand, gravel, bricks.        Trowel, bucket, wheelbarrow, spade.
  drain.

 Occasionally
— repair the lining;                    Cement, sand, gravel, bricks, etc.   Trowel, bucket, wheelbarrow, ropes.

— disinfect the well;                   Chlorine.                            Bucket.

— deepen the well and extend the        Cement, sand, gravel, bricks,        Pump, bucket, ropes.
  lining;                               concrete rings, etc.

— repair the fence;                     Wood, nails, wire, mesh.             Axe, saw, machete, hammer, pliers,
                                                                             etc.

— clean the drain.                                                           Hoe, spade, bucket, wheelbarrow.


            3.5.5 Potential problems
                        — the well collapses because it is not lined, is old, or is not properly maintained;
                        — the well runs dry, or yields fall, because their construction did not take into ac-
                          count the lower water levels during the dry season;
                        — water is abstracted at a higher rate than the natural recharge rate of the well;
                        — the lower lining of the well becomes clogged, reducing the inflow of groundwater;
                        — the groundwater becomes contaminated, either directly via the well, or by pollut-
                          ants seeping into the aquifer through the soil;
                        — the construction of the well can depend on hydrogeological conditions, such as
                          the presence, depth and yield of an aquifer, and whether rock formations are
                          above them;
                        — wells should not be constructed too far from the users’ households, or be too
                          difficult to reach, or they will not be used sufficiently or maintained;
                        — wells can become contaminated if they are sunk closer than 30 m to latrines or
                          places where cattle gather (this distance may be smaller if hydrogeological condi-
                          tions and gradient allow it), although staying beyond this distance is no guarantee
                          that contamination will not occur;
                        — the investment in labour, cash or kind needed to construct an improved dug well
                          may be beyond the capacity of a community;
                        — even if a community has the financial means, it may be difficult to make available
                          the skilled labour, tools, equipment and materials needed for construction and
                          maintenance activities (such as draining the well);
                        — the wells may not be used exclusively for drinking-water, and may also be used as a
                          source of irrigation water.
                    When discussing the potential of a well with a community, it is important to point out the
                    effect it would have on water availability and all the possible uses for the water. Wider
                    interest in the well could be gained by designing the apron to include clothes washing
                    and bathing facilities, and by diverting wastewater to vegetable plots, etc.
                        Some advantages of dug wells over most drilled wells are:
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
32


                      — dug wells can often be constructed with locally-available tools, materials and skills;
                      — if the water-lifting system breaks down and cannot be repaired, a dug well can still
                        work with a rope and bucket;
                      — dug wells can be deepened further if the groundwater table drops;
                      — dug wells have a greater storage capacity;
                      — dug wells can be repaired and de-silted by the community;
                      — dug wells can be constructed in formations where hand or mechanical drilling is
                        difficult or impossible.


           3.6 Drilled wells1
          3.6.1 The technology
                Drilled wells, tubewells or boreholes give
                access to ground-water aquifers and fa-                                         apron

                cilitate abstraction of the water. They
                differ from dug wells in that the diam-
                eter is generally smaller, between 0.10–
                0.25 m for the casing. This does not allow
                a person to enter for cleaning or deep-
                ening. The well is usually the most ex-
                pensive part of a handpump
                drinking-water supply project. Boreholes
                can be constructed by machine or by
                hand-operated equipment, and usually
                consist of three main parts:
                      ■   A concrete apron around the
                          borehole at ground level (with an
                                                                Figure 3.6 Drilled well
                          outlet adapted to the water abstrac-
                          tion method). This prevents sur-
                          face water from seeping down the sides of the well, provides a hard standing, and
                          directs lost water away from the well to a drainage channel.
                      ■   A lining below the ground, but not going into the aquifer, to prevent it from col-
                          lapsing, especially in unconsolidated formations. The lining is usually pipe mate-
                          rial (mostly PVC and sometimes galvanized iron). In consolidated formations, the
                          lining may not be required.
                      ■   A slotted pipe below water level, to allow groundwater to enter the well. A layer of
                          gravel surrounding the slotted pipe facilitates groundwater movement towards the
                          slotted pipes and prevents ground material from entering the well. In consolidated
                          formations this gravel may not be required.
                The long-term performance of the well can be improved considerably with the proper
                combination of slot size, gravel filter and aquifer material, and extensive sand pumping
                before the well is brought into production.
                Initial cost: Capital costs vary considerably and depend on many factors. The initial cost
                for a 50 m-deep hand-drilled well in the alluvial plains in South Asia can be as low as US$
                200 (Arlosoroff et al., 1987). More recent data indicated that typical costs for a 50-m
                drilled well were US$ 770 in India, and US$ 10 000 in Mozambique (Wurzel & de Rooy,
                1993).



                1
                    Morgan (1990); Wurzel & de Rooy (1993); Debris & Collignon (1994).
                                                                                                    3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                               33


                    Depth: From a few metres to over 200 m.
                    Yield: From less than 0.3 litres/s to more than 10 litres/s.
                    Expected life: Greater than 25 years.
                    Area of use: In areas with suitable aquifers.

              3.6.2 Main O&M activities
                    Apart from cleaning the platform/apron daily, occasionally cleaning the drain, and re-
                    pairing the fence (if present), there are few other maintenance activities. If a well has to
                    be de-silted or rehabilitated, a specialist company will be required for the work and all
                    appliances will have to be removed. There are various rehabilitation techniques, such as
                    forcing air or pumping water into the well, brushing, and treating with chemicals. It is
                    difficult to deepen an existing drilled well. Users may need to establish a local committee
                    or agency that can deal with issues, such as controlling or supervising water use, prevent-
                    ing water contamination, carrying out O&M activities, financing O&M, and monitoring
                    the water quality. Although the number of O&M activities required is limited and they
                    usually cost very little, they should be given careful attention, as many wells are aban-
                    doned because a lack of maintenance allows them to become contaminated or to col-
                    lapse.


3.6.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Water user.              Keep the site clean, assist with major maintenance tasks.                                 ☺
Caretaker.               Monitor water use, keep the site clean.                                                   
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, organize major maintenance, collect fees.                        
Specialized well         Rehabilitate the well.                                                                 
company.

External support.        Check the water quality, motivate and guide users’ organization.                       
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Highly qualified.



3.6.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the well site.                                                                     Broom, bucket.

 Occasionally
— clean the drain;                                                                         Hoe, spade, wheelbarrow.

— repair the fence.                          Wood, nails, wire, etc.                       Saw, machete, axe, hammer,
                                                                                           pliers, etc.

 Annually
— repair the platform/apron.                 Cement, sand, gravel.                         Trowel, bucket.

 Very rarely
— rehabilitate the well.                     Gravel, pipe material, etc.                    Special equipment.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
34


          3.6.5 Potential problems
                      — the water is of poor water quality, or the well collapses due to corrosion of the
                        galvanized iron lining;
                      — poor water inflow because the well was inadequately developed;
                      — soil particles enter the well because of inadequate screens or because the well was
                        developed incorrectly;
                      — the well becomes contaminated because the well apron was designed or constructed
                        incorrectly, or because well maintenance has been neglected;
                      — the borehole collapses because there is no lining or the lining is not strong enough;
                      — the construction of the well depends on hydrogeological conditions, such as the
                        presence, depth and yield of aquifers, and the presence of rock formations above
                        them;
                      — the well is constructed too far from the users’ households, or is too difficult to
                        reach, and is not used sufficiently or maintained adequately;
                      — the well is drilled near latrines, or where cattle gather (the recommended mini-
                        mum distance is 30 m, but could be closer depending upon hydrogeological con-
                        ditions);
                      — the well is used both for drinking-water and irrigation (this should be considered
                        when assessing the development potential of wells with the community).


           3.7 Subsurface harvesting systems1
           3.7.1 The technology
                Subsurface harvesting systems retain
                groundwater flows and facilitate their ab-
                straction. There are two main systems:
                Subsurface dams: an impermeable dam
                is built across a surface aquifer, such as
                the bed of a seasonal sand-filled river,
                and based on top of an impermeable
                layer. The crest of the dam is about one
                metre beneath the ground surface,
                which prevents the land becoming wa-
                terlogged.
                Raised-sand dams: an impermeable dam
                is built across the bed of a seasonal sand-
                filled river, with the crest reaching a few
                decimetres above the upstream river Figure 3.7 Subsurface dam
                bed. Each time the upstream part of the
                river fills with sand, the crest is raised a little more to build up a groundwater reservoir.
                Eventually, the dam may be considerably higher than the downstream river bed. The
                downstream base of the dam should be protected against erosion with concrete or large
                boulders.
                    Both dam types have wing walls embedded in the river banks, against which rocks may
                be piled up to prevent erosion. Water can be abstracted by a well a short distance up-
                stream of the dam, or by a drain system which collects water from the upstream base of
                the dam and leads it to the downstream side to a well or gravity-pipe system. Where
                possible, a flushing valve is installed to facilitate cleaning of the subsurface reservoir.


                1
                    Nilsson (1988); Lee & Visscher (1990, 1992).
                                                                                                    3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                               35


                    Initial cost: A 3500 m3 dam costs US$ 2.40/m3 in Kenya and US$ 3.90/m3 in Tanzania
                    (Lee & Visscher, 1990).
                    Yield: This depends on the catchment area, precipitation, etc.
                    Area of use: In many dry, monsoon and tropical wet-and-dry climate areas, and places
                    where other improved water-supply systems are more difficult to build, or provide insuf-
                    ficient amounts of water, or provide water of poor quality.

              3.7.2 Main O&M activities
                         — the well or gravity pipe should be regularly cleaned;
                         — after each large flood, any damage to the dam should be repaired and the dam
                           protected with large stones if necessary;
                         — during the dry season, raised-sand dams should be raised by a maximum of 50 cm
                           if the reservoir has filled up;
                         — for big repairs, such as when a dam has been undermined by infiltration, or dam-
                           aged by a flood, many people and heavy machinery may be needed, and specialist
                           technicians should be consulted.
                    Maintenance can normally be carried out by the users of the system or by a caretaker or
                    watchman. Larger repairs may require skilled labour, which can usually be provided by
                    local craftsmen. In some cases, unskilled labour may be required on a large scale (e.g. for
                    repairing a broken raised-sand dam, or a leaking subsurface dam). The labour may be
                    provided by the users (with or without pay), or by other people who are hired for the
                    purpose.
                        Users may need to establish a local committee to manage issues, such as controlling
                    or supervising water use, preventing water contamination, carrying out O&M activities,
                    financing O&M, and monitoring how much stored water is still available (a piezometer
                    or auger hole may be installed to allow a caretaker or watchman to estimate how much
                    water is left and decide if rationing has to be introduced). Proper management may also
                    help to prevent social conflict. For O&M tasks at the dam site, a person who lives or farms
                    near this site could be appointed. This person could also be responsible for water alloca-
                    tion and be involved in monitoring activities, if users obtain the water near to, or at, the
                    site. His or her authority should be clear and accepted by all users.


3.7.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Water user.              Participate in preventive maintenance.                                                    ☺
Caretaker.               Operate the valves, perform small repairs.                                                
Mason.                   Perform repairs.                                                                        
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, organize major maintenance.                                    
Specialized              Lead activities to make major repairs on the dam.                                      
technician.

External support.        Motivate and guide organization.                                                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
36


3.7.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                    Materials and spare parts               Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— raise the crest of the dam.             Cement, sand, gravel, bricks, stones,   Trowel, bucket, spade, hoe, pick
                                          reinforcement bars, wood, nails, etc.   axe, wheelbarrow, hammer, etc.

 After flooding
— check the dam for damage.

 Occasionally
— clean the gravity pipe and/or well;                                             Broom, bucket, brush, trowel.

— place boulders at the base of the       Boulders.                               Pick-axe, hoe, spade, rope, poles.
  dam;

— repair the drains, well or valves;      Cement, sand, gravel, drain pipe,       Trowel, bucket, spade, hoe, pick-
                                          spare valve.                            axe, wrench, screwdriver, spanner.

— repair the dam.                         Cement, sand, gravel, reinforcement     Trowel, bucket, spade, hoe, pick-
                                          bars, clay, boulders.                   axe, wheelbarrow, hammer, etc.


             3.7.5 Potential problems
                        — water losses may occur through cracks in the impermeable layer (it may be possi-
                          ble to drill a well in the fracture zone and utilize the dam as an artificial recharge
                          structure);
                        — the dam may become undermined or eroded owing to faulty design or construc-
                          tion, such as when boulders are not used in the building of the dam;
                        — the river may change course;
                        — the possible dam construction sites may be too far from the water users.
                  Subsurface harvesting is inappropriate where the resulting rise of the water-table could
                  have a negative impact on, for instance, agriculture, infrastructural works, or buildings.
                  To some degree, subsurface water-harvesting systems improve water quality by filtering
                  the water as it moves to the drains.


             3.8 Protected side intake1
             3.8.1 The technology
                  A protected side intake provides a sta-
                  ble place in the bank of a river or lake,
                  from where water can flow into a chan-
                  nel or enter the suction pipe of a pump.
                  It is built to withstand damage by floods
                  and to minimize problems caused by
                  sediment. Side intakes are sturdy struc-
                  tures, usually made of reinforced con-
                  crete, and may have valves or sluices to
                  flush any sediment that might settle.
                  Often, a protected side intake is com-
                  bined with a weir in the river to keep the
                  water at the required level, a sand trap
                  to let the sand settle, and a spillway to
                  release excess water. The river water may
                                                                   Figure 3.8 Protected side intake
                  1
                      Lauterjung & Schmidt (1989); WEDC (1991).
                                                                                                    3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                               37


                    enter the side intake through a screen, and a spillway overflow may be provided. Some-
                    times, protected side intakes are combined with a dam and a flushing sluice, which al-
                    lows the upstream part of the river to be flushed.
                    Initial cost/yield: These will depend on the size of the intake, etc.
                    Area of use: Rivers and lakes.

             3.8.2 Main O&M activities
                         — operation of a protected side-intake system is usually carried out by a caretaker;
                         — a valve or a sluice may have to be adjusted daily, the inlet to the channel or pump
                           checked for obstructing debris, and any damage repaired;
                         — preventive maintenance, including painting the screens and other metal parts,
                           such as sluices or valves;
                         — the intake canal and silt trap may have to be de-silted, debris cleaned from the
                           screens regularly, and damaged screens should be welded;
                         — during the rainy season, the inlet may need checking and cleaning more frequently;
                         — any erosion of the river bank or bed must be repaired immediately with boulders,
                           rocks, sandbags, etc.;
                         — cracks in the concrete structure should be repaired every year;
                         — annual cleaning and major repairs (these may require the assistance of the water
                           users);
                         — after flooding, cleaning may be necessary.

3.8.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Assist in cleaning and major repairs.                                                     ☺
Caretaker.               Inspection, cleaning, small repairs.                                                  ☺ and 
Mason.                   Repair cracks in the concrete.                                                          
Blacksmith.              Repair the screens.                                                                     
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.


3.8.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— inspect the inlet;

— adjust the valve or sluice.

 Occasionally
— clean the inlet canal and screen;                                                        Rake, hoe.

— repair the screen;                         Steel, cement, sand, gravel, nuts              Welder, spanners.
                                             and bolts, welding electrode or
                                             oxyacetylene torch.

— repair erosion damage.                     Bags, sand, boulders, rocks, etc.

 Annually
— paint metal parts;                         Paint.                                        Steel brush, paint brush.

— repair cracks in concrete.                 Cement, sand, gravel.                         Trowel, chisel, hammer, bucket,
                                                                                           wheelbarrow.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
38


             3.8.5 Potential problems
                          — clogging by silt or debris;
                          — the side-intake system may be undermined by river currents;
                          — the river or lake water may be polluted.


               3.9 River-bottom intake1
              3.9.1 The technology
                    River-bottom or Tyrolean intakes for
                    drinking-water systems are usually used
                    in small rivers and streams where the
                    sediment content and bed load transport
                    are low. The water is abstracted through
                    a screen over a canal (usually made of
                    concrete and built into the river bed).
                    The bars of the screen are laid in the
                    direction of the current and sloping
                    downwards, so that coarse material can-
                    not enter. From the canal, water enters
                    a sand trap and then may pass a valve
                    and flow by gravity, or be pumped into
                    the rest of the system.
                    Initial cost: Depends on the size of the
                    system.                                                Figure 3.9 River-bottom intake

                    Yield: Up to 100% of the water flow of
                    the river.
                    Area of use: Rivers with little sediment and bed load.

             3.9.2 Main O&M activities
                    A river-bottom intake is usually operated by a caretaker. The inlet must be checked regu-
                    larly and obstructing debris removed and any damage repaired. The sand trap must be
                    cleaned regularly. Preventive maintenance consists of painting the screens and other
                    metal parts, such as sluices or valves. Depending on silt and bed load transport, the sand
                    trap and screen will have to be cleaned regularly, and the screen or valve may need
                    repairing. Any erosion undermining the structure must be repaired immediately. Every
                    year, the concrete structure should be checked for cracks and repaired if needed. The
                    water users may be required to help with annual cleaning and major repairs.


3.9.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                    Roles                                                                             Skills required

Users.                    Assist with major repairs.                                                               ☺
Caretaker.                Inspection, cleaning, small repairs, operation of valves.                            ☺ and 
Mason.                    Repair cracks in concrete.                                                             
Blacksmith.               Repair screens.                                                                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.


                    1
                        Jordan (1984); Lauterjung & Schmidt (1989); WEDC (1991).
                                                                                         3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                    39


3.9.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                     Materials and spare parts              Tools and equipment

 Daily
— inspect the inlet;

— adjust the valve or sluice.

 Occasionally
— clean the screen;                                                               Rake, hoe.

— repair the screen;                       Steel rods, cement, sand, gravel,      Welder, spanners.
                                           nuts and bolts, welding electrode or
                                           oxyacetylene torch.

— repair erosion damage.                   Bags, sand, boulders, rocks, etc.

 Annually
— paint the metal parts;                   Paint.                                 Steel brush, paint brush.

— repair cracks in concrete.               Cement, sand, gravel.                  Trowel, chisel, hammer, bucket,
                                                                                  wheelbarrow.


            3.9.5 Potential problems
                        —   clogging by silt or debris;
                        —   undermining by river currents;
                        —   the river or lake water may be polluted;
                        —   during the dry season, there may not be enough water in the river or stream to
                            supply all users.


            3.10 Floating intake1
            3.10.1 The technology
                  Floating intakes for drinking-water sys-
                  tems allow water to be abstracted from
                  near the surface of a river or lake, thus
                  avoiding the heavier silt loads that are
                  transported closer to the bottom during
                  floods. The inlet pipe of a suction pump
                  is connected just under the water level
                  to a floating pontoon that is moored to
                  the bank or bottom of the lake or river.
                  The pump itself can be located either
                  on the bank or on the pontoon. The ad-
                  vantages of placing the pump on the
                  pontoon are that the suction pipe can
                  be quite short and the suction head will
                  be constant (less risk of cavitation). For
                  a description of typical pumps, see Chap- Figure 3.10 Floating intake
                  ter 4, Water-lifting devices. If the river cur-
                  rents frequently carry logs or large debris, a floating inlet needs extra protection or it will
                  be damaged. To construct the pontoon, a steel or wooden frame can be attached to floats
                  made from empty oil drums, plastic containers, or sealed steel tubes at least 30 cm in
                  diameter.

                  1
                      Hofkes & Visscher (1986).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
40


                     Initial cost: No data are available.
                     Yield: Will depend on the pump.
                     Area of use: Rivers or lakes.

             3.10.2 Main O&M activities
                     A floating-intake system is usually operated by a caretaker. The pump and inlet pipe must
                     be checked before and during pump operation, and any obstructing debris removed
                     and damage repaired. This is particularly important during the rainy season. Every day,
                     the mooring cables should be checked and adjusted if necessary, and the flexible pipe
                     connections checked for leaks. Any damage to the mooring or the pontoon structure
                     must be repaired immediately, which may require the assistance of several people. De-
                     pending on the materials used, the pontoon should be painted regularly, at least once a
                     year for steel parts. For maintenance of the pump and turbine see Chapter 4, Water-
                     lifting devices.


3.10.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                  Roles                                                                      Skills required

Caretaker.              Clean the screen, check structure and mooring, perform small repairs.            
Blacksmith.             Repair the pontoon structure.                                                    
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.



3.10.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                    Materials and spare parts                Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check the pipe connections;

— inspect the inlet.

 Occasionally
— clean the inlet;

— repair the inlet;                       Mesh, wire.                              Pliers, tin cutter.

— repair/replace pipe connections;        Flax, Teflon tape, spare connectors,     Pipe wrench, spanners.
                                          nipples.

— repair the pontoon;                     Nails, bolts, nuts, welding electrodes   Spanners, hammer, pliers, welder,
                                          or oxyacetylene torch, rope, wire.       knife.

— replace cables.                         Steel cables, wire, cable clamps.        Spanners, steel saw, pliers.

 Annually
— paint the pontoon.                      Paint.                                   Steel brush, paintbrush.


             3.10.5 Potential problems
                        — floating objects collide with the floating pontoon;
                        — the pipe connectors between the pontoon and the bank wear out;
                        — the lake or river water may be of poor quality.
                                                                                                    3. WATER SOURCES AND INTAKES
                                                                                                                               41


             3.11 Sump intake1
             3.11.1 The technology
                     In a sump intake, water from a river or
                     lake flows through an underwater pipe
                     to a well or sump from where it is lifted,
                     usually into the initial purification stages
                     of a drinking-water system. The inflow
                     opening of the underwater pipe is lo-
                     cated below the low-water level and is
                     screened. A well provides a place for sedi-
                     mentation to settle and protects the
                     pump against damage by floating ob-
                     jects. To facilitate cleaning, two sump in-
                     takes are sometimes built for one pump.
                     Initial cost: This can be as low as the cost
                     of the pipe and the labour involved.
                     Yield: Depends on the design.                         Figure 3.11 Sump intake
                     Area of use: On the banks of rivers and
                     lakes.

             3.11.2 Main O&M activities
                     Operation is usually carried out by a caretaker. The sump must be checked daily for
                     sufficient water inflow; any debris obstructing it must be removed, and any damage re-
                     paired. Most of the maintenance will be to the pump. The intake itself needs some clean-
                     ing and de-silting. If it caves in, or if the river or lake bank erodes, repairs have to be
                     made. A sump inlet does not require special organizational arrangements.


3.11.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                     Roles                                                                                 Skills

Users.                     Assist in cleaning and repairs.                                                         ☺
Caretaker.                 Check the inlet, perform small repairs.                                                 
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.



3.11.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                Materials and spare parts                Tools and equipment

Daily
— inspect the inlet.

Occasionally
— clean the inlet;                                                             Rake or stick, spade.

— repair the inlet;                   Screen, pipe, boulders.                  Pickaxe, hoe, spade, metal cutter, saw, file etc.

— repair erosion damage.              Boulders, wood, cement, sand.            Hoe, spade, pickaxe, wheelbarrow.

Annually or more
— de-silt the sump.                                                            Hoe, spade, bucket, rope, etc.
                     1
                         Lauterjung & Schmidt (1989); WEDC (1991).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
42


          3.11.5 Potential problems
                    —   silt or debris clogs the inlet pipe;
                    —   erosion caused by the river current undermines the intake structure and the bank;
                    —   the water quality from the river or lake is poor;
                    —   a sump intake is unsuitable for rivers that are very shallow or that have low flow
                        rates.
                                                                             4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                 43


4. Water-lifting devices



4.1 Introduction
     Water-lifting devices are used to lift water to a height that allows users easy access to
     water. Lifting devices can be used to raise groundwater, rainwater stored in an under-
     ground reservoir, and river water. Communities should be able to choose from a range of
     water-lifting devices, and each option should be presented with its advantages, disadvan-
     tages and implications. For example, water lifting involves additional O&M activities and
     potential problems, compared to gravity systems, and the latter are often preferred if
     they are available and applicable to the situation.
        The following water-lifting devices are described in this manual:
           —   rope and bucket (loose through a pulley, or on a windlass);
           —   bucket pump;
           —   rope pump;
           —   suction plunger handpump;
           —   direct action pump;
           —   deep-well piston pump;
           —   deep-well diaphragm pump;
           —   centrifugal pump;
           —   electrical submersible pump;
           —   axial flow pump;
           —   hydraulic ram pump.
     There are other water-lifting devices that are not described in this manual, such as the
     progressing cavities pump, the manual diaphragm suction pump, the treadle pump and
     the chain pump. Other devices, such as the air-lift pump, are not included because they
     are not applicable to drinking-water supply systems.


4.2 Rope and bucket1
4.2.1 The technology
     This device is mainly used with hand-dug wells. A bucket on a rope is lowered into the
     water. When the bucket hits the water it dips and fills, and is pulled up with the rope. The
     rope may be held by hand, run through a pulley, or wound on a windlass. Sometimes,
     animal traction is used in combination with a pulley. Improved systems use a rope through
     a pulley, and two buckets – one on each end of the rope. For water less than 10 m deep,
     a windlass with a hose running from the bottom of the bucket to a spout at the side of the
     well can be used. However, the hygiene of this system is poorer, even if the well is pro-
     tected.
     Initial cost: From US$ 6 for a plastic bucket and 5 m of rope, to US$ 150 with a windlass,
     hose and closed superstructure, in Liberia (Milkov, 1987).


     1
         Morgan (1990).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
44


                    Range of depth: 0–15 m (or more some-
                    times).
                    Yield: 0.25 litres/s at 10 m.
                    Area of use: All over the world.

             4.2.2 Main O&M activities
                    The bucket is lowered and raised by play-
                    ing out and pulling in the rope, or by
                    rotating the windlass. Care must be taken
                    to prevent the rope or bucket from be-
                    coming soiled. Preventive maintenance
                    consists of greasing the bearings of the
                    windlass or pulley.
                        Small repairs are limited to patching Figure 4.2 Rope-and-bucket lifting device.
                    holes in the bucket and hose, reconnect-
                    ing the hinge of the bucket, and fixing the windlass bearings or handle. All small repairs
                    can be done by local people, and with tools and materials available in the community or
                    area. Major repairs and replacements mainly consist of replacing the bucket, hose, rope,
                    or part or all of the windlass. Woven nylon ropes may last for two years, but twined nylon
                    or sisal ropes last only a few months. A good-quality hose may last for over two years, and
                    most buckets last a year (depending on the material and quality). When people use their
                    own rope and bucket, no extra organization is required. For community wells, a commu-
                    nity committee usually organizes the maintenance and cleaning of the well, maintenance
                    of the windlass, etc. Most repairs can be paid with ad hoc fund-raising. For maintenance
                    of the well, see Fact Sheet 3.5.


4.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                               Skills required

Users.                   Lower and lift the bucket, keep the site clean, warn when the                             ☺
                         system malfunctions.

Caretaker.               Keep the site clean, carry out small repairs.                                             
Water committee.         Organize cleaning of the well, collect fees.                                              
Local artisan.           Repair the bucket, windlass, well cover, etc.                                            
Shopkeeper/trader.       Sell the rope, buckets, etc.                                                              ☺
External support.        Check the water quality, motivate and guide local organization.                          
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


4.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                                    Materials and spare parts                 Tools and equipment

Every two weeks
— grease the axles of the windlass or pulley.             Grease or oil.                            Lubricator.

Every year
— replace the bucket.                                     Bucket, wire.                             Knife.

Every two years
— replace the rope.                                       Rope, wire.                               Knife.
                                                                              4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                  45


4.2.5 Potential problems
           — poor-quality rope deteriorates quickly (e.g. sisal rope lasts for only a few months);
           — the bucket falls into the well – to prevent this, communities can keep a spare bucket
             and fit the bucket into a protective cage, such as that described by Carty (1990);
           — the hose breaks frequently in windlass-and-hose systems;
           — poor hygiene, especially when the rope or bucket touches users’ hands or the
             ground;
           — communal wells tend to become more contaminated than family-owned wells, and
             the latter should be promoted whenever possible;
           — the rope-and-bucket system is only suitable for limited depths.


 4.3 Bucket pump1
4.3.1 The technology
     The bucket pump is mainly used in
     drilled wells. It consists of a windlass over
     a 125 mm PVC tube, down which a nar-
     row bucket with a valve in the base is low-
     ered into the water on a chain. When
     the bucket hits the water, the valve opens
     and the water flows in. When the bucket
     is raised, the valve closes and the water
     is retained in the bucket. To release the
     water, the pump operator rests the
     bucket on a water discharger, which
     opens the valve in the base. The wind-
     lass bearings are made of wood.
     Initial cost: Estimated starting price is
     US$ 80.                                         Figure 4.3 Bucket pump

     Range of depth: 0–15 m.
     Yield: Relatively low and depends on well depth.
     Trademarks: Developed by Blair Research Laboratory.
     Area of use: Zimbabwe and elsewhere.

4.3.2 Main O&M activities
     To operate a bucket pump, rotate the handle of the windlass and let the bucket pass
     through the steel head. Both adults and children can operate the pump. Preventive main-
     tenance consists of lubricating the wooden bearings of the windlass, checking the nuts
     and bolts, and checking that the valve is functioning. The pump and its environment
     should be kept clean, and the well should be disinfected regularly. Minor repairs consist
     of replacing the valve washers and repairing links in the chain. Broken links in the chain
     can be repaired with steel wire. If the chain has fallen into the tubewell it can be hooked
     out with a long piece of wire. A major requirement is repairing the bottom of the bucket,
     which can be done locally by a tinsmith or blacksmith. At some stage, the chain, the
     bucket or the bearings of the windlass will need to be replaced. A local craftsman may be
     needed to repair or replace the windlass system. Usually, village committees are formed
     to drill or dig the well, and install the pump. The committee can also organize mainte-

     1
         Morgan (1990).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
46


                    nance activities and collect fees for repairs. After the pump is installed, simple lessons in
                    O&M should be given, followed by monitoring, and occasional assistance by external
                    agencies.


4.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Keep the site clean; warn in case of malfunction.                                         ☺
Local caretaker.         Ensure proper use of the pump; carry out regular maintenance;                          ☺/
                         perform simple repairs; keep the site clean.

Water committee.         Check the work of the caretaker; raise funds for repairs.                                 
Tin worker or            Repair the chain and bucket.                                                            
blacksmith.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.



4.3.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the area.                                                                           Broom.

 Weekly
— tighten the bolts.                          Nuts and bolts.                               Flat spanner.

 Occasionally
— lubricate bearings;                         Grease or oil.

— replace bearings;                           Hardwood.                                     Spanner.

— change the chain;                           Chain, steel wire.                            Two spanners.

— repair the bucket;                          Spare valve/edge unit.                        Saw, hammer, pliers.

— change the bucket;                          Bucket.                                       Two spanners.

— repair the valve;                           Washer or old car tube, bolts, split          Knife, two socket spanners (long
                                              pin or wire.                                   and short).

— repair the platform.                        Cement, sand, gravel.                         Bucket, trowel.


             4.3.5 Potential problems
                         —   loose valve parts;
                         —   broken chain;
                         —   stones thrown in the well by children;
                         —   low discharge rates;
                         —   contamination, especially with communal wells;
                         —   chlorine for disinfecting the well may not be locally available.
                                                                          4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                              47


4.4 Rope pump1
4.4.1 The technology
      The basic parts of a rope pump are a
      pulley wheel above the well, a riser pipe
      from under the water level to an outlet
      just under the wheel, and a rope with
      rubber or plastic washers. The rope
      comes up through the pipe, over the
      wheel, back down into the well and into
      the bottom of the pipe, completing the
      loop. When the wheel is turned, the
      washers move upwards and lift water into
      the pipe towards the outflow. Other im-
      portant parts are an underwater rope-
      guide that directs the rope and washers
      back into the pipe, and a frame that
      holds the pulley wheel. The rope pump Figure 4.4 Rope pump
      can be made at village level using wood,
      rope and PVC tubing (or bamboo canes with the centres bored out).
          In Nicaragua, local industries produce an improved type of rope pump that has a
      metal wheel and frame, industry-made washers, and a guide block of concrete with ce-
      ramic and PVC tubes. About 25 000 of these pumps have been installed in Nicaragua.
      Water can be lifted from as deep as 50 m and raised to 5 m above ground level. Special
      models with 3-inch boreholes, and powered by windmills, bicycles, animal traction, elec-
      tric motors or small gasoline engines, give good results.
      Initial cost: US$ 15–35 for a traditional model and US$ 90 for a commercial model with
      piping (1995 data, Nicaragua).
      Range of depth: 0–50 m.
      Yield: 0.6 litres/s at 10 m, 0.15 litres/s at 50 m.
      Area of use: In rural and periurban areas of Nicaragua, Bolivia, Indonesia, Ghana, Burkina
      Faso and other countries.
      Construction: Local manufacturers/artisans.

4.4.2 Main O&M activities
      The rope pump can be operated by men, women or children. Turning the handle of the
      pulley wheel makes the water rise. After pumping, the wheel has to be held for a moment
      to drain the water in the riser pipe and to prevent the washers from being pulled back in
      the pipe, which would cause extra wear. The site and the pump must be kept clean.
          Depending on use and the type of bearings, the axle bearings must be greased at least
      once a week. The pulley wheel and other parts of the pump have to be checked regularly
      and fixed, as necessary. The rope must also be checked for excessive wear. Users should
      pay attention to the pump performance and report problems. Most problems occur with
      the rope or washers getting stuck, or slipping over the pulley wheel. Every 6 months to 3
      years, the rope should be replaced (which takes about half an hour). Every few years, the
      washers should be renewed. The piping lasts for at least 6 years and, depending on the
      construction, maintenance and use, the frame and pulley wheel of the pump can last
      from 6 to 12 years. The rope guide should last for several years and to change it, the

      1
          van Hemert et al. (1992); Lammerink et al. (1995).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
48


                    rising main should be taken out (which can be done by hand by a few people). All repairs
                    can be carried out by the users themselves, sometimes with the assistance of a craftsman
                    for welding.
                        Rope pumps are used by communities or individual households. The maintenance
                    needs are simple, but frequent, and users need to ensure that they are carried out and
                    that their pump is kept in good working condition. Hygiene is more important than with
                    many other types of pump, particularly when the pump is used communally. In such
                    cases, it is important that the users organize effective measures for ensuring good hy-
                    giene practices.


4.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Pump the water, check that the pump is functioning properly.                              ☺
Caretaker.               Lubricate, check the rope, clean the site.                                                
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, collect fees.                                                    
Local or area            Repair the pulley and frame structure.                                                  
craftsman.

External support.        Control the water quality, guide and motivate organization.                        / 
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



4.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Weekly
— grease bearings;                            Grease or oil.                                Lubricator.

— check the rope and frame structure.

 Occasionally
— replace the guide block;                    Wire, strips of inner tubing from car         Pliers, knife, hammer and chisel.
                                              tyres, guide block, gravel, sand
                                              and cement.

— repair the frame structure.                 Wood and nails, or scraps of metal,           Welding equipment or hammer,
                                              and welding electrodes, or                    chisel and saw.
                                              oxyacetylene torch.

 Annually
— replace the rope;                           Nylon rope.                                   Knife.

— paint the frame;                            Anticorrosive paint.                          Steel brush, paintbrush.

— repair the platform.                        Cement, sand, gravel.                         Trowel, bucket.

 Every two years
— replace the washers.                        Washers or old car tyre.                      Knife.

 Every six years
— replace the tubes.                          PVC tubing, solvent cement.                   Saw, file.
                                                                            4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                49


4.4.5 Potential problems
           — the rope becomes worn because it is exposed to the sun (exposed rope needs to
             be protected), or because it is used heavily;
           — the installation of the rope pump was poorly done and its performance is subopti-
             mal;
           — the pulley wheel malfunctions;
           — the pistons, frame and guide block are of poor quality and do not function prop-
             erly;
           — traditional rope pumps have a lift of only about 10 m;
           — users need to exercise care when using the pump as it is susceptible to contamina-
             tion;
           — although design and quality of construction may differ significantly, the rope pump
             can be low-cost, and operated and maintained at the village level.


 4.5 Suction plunger handpump1
4.5.1 The technology
     A suction plunger handpump has its cyl-
     inder and plunger (or piston) located
     above the water level, usually within the
     pump stand itself. These pumps must be
     primed by pouring water on the plunger.
     On the up-stroke of the plunger, the
     pressure inside the suction pipe is re-
     duced and atmospheric pressure on the
     water outside pushes the water up into
     the pipe. On the down-stroke, a check
     valve at the inlet of the suction pipe
     closes and water passes the plunger
     through an opened plunger valve. With
     the next upstroke, the plunger valve
     closes and the water is lifted up by the
     plunger and flows out at the top of the
     pump, while new water flows into the
     suction pipe. The operational depth of Figure 4.5 Suction plunger handpump
     this type of handpump is limited by baro-
     metric pressure and the effectiveness of the plunger seals to about 7 m at sea level, less at
     higher altitudes.
     Initial cost: From US$ 35 (Thailand, 1985), including 10 m galvanized iron drop pipe
     and a foot valve, to US$ 185 for a Wasp pump in India (1983 price without a suction
     pipe) (Arlosoroff et al., 1987).
     Range of depth: 0–7 m.
     Yield: 0.4–0.6 litres/s at 7 m.
     Area of use: Rural and low-income periurban areas where groundwater tables are within
     7 m of the surface.
     Trademarks: AID Suction; Bandung, Inalsa Suction; Jetmatic Suction; Lucky, New No. 6;
     Rower, SYB-100; Wasp, etc.


     1
         Arlosoroff et al. (1987).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
50


             4.5.2 Main O&M activities
                    The operation begins with priming the pump, by pouring clean water on the plunger
                    through the top of the pump stand. Pumping is done by moving the handle up and
                    down, usually while standing beside the pump (with a rower pump, the user sits). Most
                    suction handpumps can be easily operated by men, women and children.
                        Suction pumps are relatively easy to maintain, since most or all of the moving parts
                    are above ground level. Maintenance can normally be done by a village caretaker or by
                    the users themselves, using simple tools, and basic spare parts and materials (however,
                    several brands cannot be completely maintained at local level). The basic skills needed
                    for preventive maintenance (e.g. greasing, dismantling the pump stand, replacing spare
                    parts, etc.) can be taught to pump caretakers quickly (from a few hours to a few days,
                    depending on the complexity of the system, materials used, etc.). Preventive mainte-
                    nance consists of greasing the bearings every week, inspecting the interior of the pump
                    stand once a month, and inspecting the whole pump stand once a year. Most of this work
                    can be done by one or two people, but more people may be needed when pump parts
                    have to be lifted out of the well or borehole. During these inspections, smaller repairs
                    (replacement of washers, etc.) may be necessary. For major repairs (e.g. broken rising
                    main, cracks in the welding of metal parts), more highly skilled people and specialized
                    tools and materials may be needed.
                        Many suction handpumps are family pumps and are cared for by one family. For
                    communal pumps, the user group or community will need a local committee to organize
                    O&M tasks, including making major repairs. Private enterprises sometimes play an im-
                    portant role in performing repairs and selling spare parts.


4.5.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Pump the water, warn of malfunctions.                                                     ☺
Local caretaker.         Ensure proper use of the pump and carry out regular                                       
                         maintenance, perform simple repairs, keep the pump and
                         site clean.

Water committee.         Check the work of the caretaker, collect contributions for                                
                         maintenance and repairs.

Area technician.         Perform major repairs.                                                                  
Local or area            Sell spare parts.                                                                         ☺
merchant.

External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide the local water committee.                     
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
                                                                                               4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                    51


4.5.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                    Materials and spare parts              Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the pump surroundings;            Clean water.                           Bucket or can.

— check pump functioning;

— clean the pump site.                                                           Broom.

 Weekly
— grease pump-stand parts.                Oil or grease.                         Lubricator.

 Monthly
— check pump-stand parts.                                                        Spanners.

 Occasionally
— adjust loose bolts;                                                            Spanners.

— replace pump-stand parts;               Washers, cupseals, bearings, etc.

— repair broken parts.                    Welding electrodes.                    Spanners, pipe wrench, welder, file,
                                                                                 etc., depending on the model.

 Annually
— check the entire pump;                                                         Spanners, pipe wrench, etc.,
                                                                                 depending on the model.

— replace worn parts;                     Washers, cupseals, bearings, etc.      Spanners, pipe wrench, etc.

— repair the platform.                    Sand, cement.                          Bucket, trowel.



            4.5.5 Potential problems
                        — worn out washers, cupseals and bearings;
                        — excessive corrosion that causes pump rods to break, and leaks to appear in the
                          rising mains;
                        — many pumps are of poor quality;
                        — the biggest drawback of suction pumps is that they can lift water to only about 7 m,
                          and if the water table falls below that level, the pump becomes inoperable and
                          must be replaced with a deep-well pump;
                        — contaminated water is often used to prime suction pumps;
                        — most pumps are designed for family use and are not sturdy enough for communal
                          use.


            4.6 Direct action handpump1
            4.6.1 The technology
                 Direct action handpumps are usually made of PVC and other plastics, and are installed
                 on boreholes of limited depth. A plunger is attached to the lower end of a pump rod,
                 beneath the groundwater level. The user moves the pump rod in an up-and-down mo-
                 tion, using a T-bar handle. On the up-stroke, the plunger lifts water into the rising main,
                 and replacement water is drawn into the cylinder through the foot valve. On the down-
                 stroke, the foot valve closes, and water passes through a one-way valve in the plunger and
                 is lifted on the next up-stroke. Because direct action handpumps have no mechanical

                 1
                     Arlosoroff et al. (1987); Morgan (1990); Reynolds (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
52


                    advantage, such as the lever or fly-wheel
                    of a deep-well handpump, direct action
                    pumps can only be used to depths from
                    which an individual can physically lift the
                    column of water (about 12 m). However,                                                      pump rod

                    the mechanical simplicity, low cost and
                    lightweight construction makes these
                    pumps well equipped to meet O&M ob-
                    jectives at the village level.
                    Initial cost: From about US$ 100 to over
                    $ 900 (1985 prices) (Arlosoroff et al.,                                                     plunger
                    1987). Models suitable for village level
                    O&M cost less than US$ 150.
                    Range of depth: 0–12 m.
                    Yield: 0.25–0.42 litres/s at 12 m depth.
                    Area of use: Rural and low-income                      Figure 4.6 Direct action handpump
                    periurban areas, where groundwater ta-
                    bles are within 12 m of the surface.
                    Trademarks: Blair; Ethiopia BP50; Malawi Mark V; Nira AF85; Tara; Wavin.

             4.6.2 Main O&M activities
                    The pump is operated by moving a handle up and down. As the plunger is located under-
                    water, no priming is needed. Adults, and even children, can pump the water, although if
                    the water table is below 5 m, this may be difficult for children. The pump stand and site
                    must be kept clean.
                        Maintenance of direct action pumps is relatively simple and can be taught to users or
                    caretakers, sometimes within a few hours. For preventive maintenance, usually only one
                    or two people are needed. Daily activities consist of checking the pump performance
                    and the appearance of the water (if it is cloudy with silt, the borehole must be cleaned).
                    Annually, the pump should be taken apart and checked. Small repairs include replacing
                    worn cupseals and washers, straightening bent pump rods, and replacing corroded lock
                    nuts. To carry out major repairs (e.g. a broken pump rod or rising main, cracks in the
                    welding of metal parts), skilled help may be needed. O&M can be organized at commu-
                    nity level, and since maintenance is relatively simple, good organization will result in a
                    reliable service.


4.6.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                           Roles                                                                      Skills required

Users.                           Pump the water, keep the site clean, warn of malfunctions.                         ☺
Caretaker.                       Keep the site clean, do small repairs, check pump annually.                        
Water committee.                 Organize maintenance, collect fees.                                                
Local merchant.                  Sell spare parts.                                                                  ☺
Local or area mechanic.          Perform major repairs.                                                           
External support.                Check water quality, motivate and guide local organization.                    
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
                                                                                                4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                    53


4.6.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                         Materials and spare parts           Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the pump and site;                                                         Broom.

— check performance.

 Occasionally
— replace cupseals and washers;               Cupseals, washers.                   Spanners, screwdriver.

— replace pump rod and/or pump handle;        Pump rod, pump handle.               Spanners, wrench.

— replace cylinder and/or plunger             Cylinder, plunger, foot valve.       Spanners, wrench, screwdriver.
  and/or foot valve;

— repair rising mains.                        PVC tubing, PVC solvent and          Saw and file, or two pipe wrenches.
                                              sandpaper or galvanized iron
                                              tubing, teflon or hemp.

 Annually
— check the whole pump;                                                            Spanners, screwdriver.

— repair the pump platform.                    Cement, sand, gravel.               Bucket, trowel.


            4.6.5 Potential problems
                        — worn washers, plungers and foot valve parts;
                        — abrasion of the seal on the PVC cylinder and between the pump rod and rising
                          main;
                        — broken or damaged handles;
                        — the maximum lift is limited to about 12 m;
                        — the force needed to pump the water may be too great for children, especially if the
                          water table is below 5 m.


             4.7 Deep-well diaphragm pump1
            4.7.1 The technology
                  Inside a cylindrical pump body at the
                  bottom of the well, a flexible diaphragm
                  shrinks and expands like a tube-shaped
                  balloon, taking the water in through an
                  inlet valve and forcing it out through an
                  outlet valve. The cylindrical pump is con-
                  nected to a flexible hose which leads the
                  water to the surface. Movement of the
                  diaphragm is effected by a separate hy-
                  draulic circuit that consists of a cylinder
                  and piston in the pump stand, and a
                  water-filled pilot pipe, which is also a flex-
                  ible hose. The piston is moved, usually
                  by pushing down on a foot pedal, al-
                  though conventional lever handles may
                  also be used. When foot pressure is re-
                  moved, the elasticity of the diaphragm
                  forces water out of it, back up the pilot            Figure 4.7 Deep-well diaphragm pump

                  1
                      Arlosoroff et al. (1987); Fonseka & Baumann (1994).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
54


                    pipe, and lifts the foot pedal. Deep-well diaphragm pumps are still being improved, but
                    most imperfections have been corrected.
                       The principle of the pump is attractive because it allows thin flexible hoses to be
                    used, making the pump easy to install or remove without the need for special tools or
                    equipment. Replacing spare parts is usually easy; only the replacement of the diaphragm
                    may need the assistance of a skilled mechanic. It is possible to install several pumps in a
                    single well or borehole.
                    Initial cost: In 1986, a complete pump that operated to a depth of 30 m cost US$ 860
                    (CIEH, 1990). In Burkina Faso and Benin in 1993, a Vergnet model pump cost US$
                    1460–1820 (including 10% VAT), depending on the installation depth (Baumann, 1993b).
                    Range of depth: 10–70 m.
                    Yield: 0.50 litres/s at 10 m depth; 0.32 litres/s at 30 m; and 0.24 litres/s at 45 m.
                    Useful life: Eight years.
                    Area of use: Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger.
                    Trademarks: Vergnet; ABI-ASM (no longer in production).

             4.7.2 Main O&M activities
                    The pump is operated by pushing down on a pedal, usually by foot, but sometimes with
                    a handle. Depressing the pedal can take a considerable effort, as much as the bodyweight
                    of the user, and the pump must be built to withstand this.
                        Every day, the pump head, platform and surroundings must be cleaned, and the nuts
                    and bolts tightened. Each month, the drive piston, rings and guide bushing need to be
                    checked and replaced if necessary. At least once a year (more often if borehole condi-
                    tions warrant it), the downhole parts of the pump have to be checked and the entire
                    pump washed with clean water. The pump can be extracted from the well by the village
                    caretaker and reinstalled, all within one-half hour. Only one spanner is needed to service
                    the pump. Also, the plunger seals in the cylinder at the pump stand cost little and can
                    easily be replaced by the pump caretaker.
                        In contrast, replacing the pump diaphragm is a major O&M activity. This must be
                    done every two to five years, and some diaphragms come with a three-year guarantee.
                    This activity requires a mechanic who has been trained in replacing pump diaphragms
                    (some mechanics have even been able to repair ruptured diaphragms).
                        Deep-well diaphragm pumps are typically communal, and the water committee should
                    appoint someone who lives near to the pump site to be caretaker. This person will need
                    some training in maintenance and hygiene. The committee should be able to get in
                    contact with the area mechanic quickly, and it must have the financial means to pay for
                    repairs in cash. Often, the pump supplier provides maintenance backstopping.


4.7.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Pump the water, keep the site clean, report malfunctions.                                 ☺
Caretaker.               Keep the site clean, perform small repairs.                                               
Area mechanic.           Replace the diaphragm.                                                                  
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, collect fees.                                                    
External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide local organization.                            
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
                                                                                                    4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                        55


4.7.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                           Materials and spare parts            Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the pump and site.                                                            Broom, bucket.

 Weekly
— grease the parts of the pump stand.            Grease.                              Lubricator.

 Monthly
— check the entire pump.                                                              Spanner.

 Occasionally
— replace the piston parts;                      Piston seal, pedal rod guide, etc.   Spanner.

— replace the inlet and outlet washers.          Washers.                             Spanner.

 Annually
— repair the platform.                           Sand, cement, gravel.                Trowel, bucket.

 Every 3–5 years
— replace the diaphragm.                         Diaphragm.                           Spanner.


            4.7.5 Potential problems
                         — pedal rod guides and plunger seals need to be replaced frequently, and the plunger
                           guides may wear out quickly;
                         — drive hoses often need to be re-primed because water leaks past the plunger seals,
                           and the foot pedal then needs to be raised by hand;
                         — if solid particles enter the downhole pumping element it must be cleaned, since
                           this will cause the diaphragm to stop working or even rupture;
                         — if a community cannot afford to replace the pump diaphragm, or if no skilled
                           mechanic is available, users may be forced to return to their traditional sources,
                           temporarily;
                         — moderate skills in steel fabrication and fitting are needed to produce a pump
                           stand, while advanced manufacturing techniques and tight quality control are
                           needed to produce the pumping element; in many countries, these parts will have
                           to be imported.


            4.8 Deep-well piston handpump1
            4.8.1 The technology
                   With a deep-well piston handpump, the piston is placed in a cylinder below the water
                   level, which is usually 15–45 m below the ground. The pumping motion by the user at the
                   pump stand is transferred to the piston by a series of connected pumping rods inside the
                   rising main. On the up-stroke, the plunger lifts water into the rising main, and replace-
                   ment water is drawn into the cylinder through a foot valve. On the down-stroke, the foot
                   valve closes, and water passes the plunger and is lifted on the next up-stroke. The pump-
                   ing height is limited only by the effort needed to lift the water to the surface. Nowadays,
                   most pump cylinders have an open top. This allows the piston and foot valve to be re-
                   moved through the rising main for servicing and repairs, while the rising main and cylin-
                   der stay in place. The pump rods have special connectors that allow them to be assembled
                   or dismantled without tools, or with only very simple ones. The connecting joints incor-
                   porate pump rod centralizers that prevent wear of the rising main. To a large extent,
                   improved models can be maintained at village level.
                   1
                       Arlosoroff et al. (1987); Reynolds (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
56


                Initial cost: In 1985, for a well 25–35 m
                deep, prices ranged from about US$ 40
                for a cylinder, plunger and foot valve set
                (installed under a locally-made pump
                head), to over US$ 2300 for a complete
                pump with stainless steel parts
                (Arlosoroff et al., 1987). Most good
                pumps cost US$ 300–500.
                Range of depth: 15–45 m, although
                depths of up to 100 m are possible.
                Useful life: 6–12 years.
                Yield: 0.25–0.36 litres/s at 25 m, and
                0.18–0.28 litres/s at 45 m depth.
                Area of use: Rural and low-income
                periurban areas where groundwater ta-
                bles are within 100 m (but preferably        Figure 4.8 Deep-well piston handpump
                within 45 m) from the surface.
                Trademarks: Afridev/Aquadev; Bestobell Micro; Bush pump; Blair pump; India Mark II
                and III; Kardia; Tropic (Duba); UPM; Volanta.


          4.8.2 Main O&M activities
                The pump is operated by moving the handle up and down, or by rotating the handle of
                a flywheel. This can be done by adults and even children, since handle forces are usually
                kept within acceptable limits (depending on the brand and lifting heights). Preventive
                maintenance usually consists of checking that the pump is functioning, and cleaning the
                pump and pump site daily. Each week, the pump should be greased, and once a month
                all parts of the pumpstand must be checked. Small repairs include replacing bearings,
                cupseals and washers, and straightening bent pumping rods, etc.
                    Once a year, the entire pump should be dismantled for a check, the parts cleaned
                with clean water, and the pumpstand painted. Pump rods that show bad corrosion must
                be replaced. Under normal conditions, a galvanized steel pump rod needs to be replaced
                every five or six years. Rising mains made of galvanized iron should be removed and
                checked, and pipes with badly corroded threads replaced. Major repairs involve replac-
                ing the plunger, foot valve, cylinder, pump rods, rising main, pump handle, fulcrum, etc.
                    With open-top cylinder pumps, all preventive maintenance activities can normally be
                carried out by the pump caretaker for the village. With closed-top cylinder pumps, how-
                ever, special lifting equipment may be needed to pull up the rising main and cylinder, so
                that pump parts down in the well hole can be maintained. Deep-well pumps can be too
                expensive for individual families, and they may be better suited to communal use. To
                maintain the pump in good working condition, communities will have to organize them-
                selves, for example, by appointing a pump caretaker, or by coordinating activities through
                a pump committee. External support is often provided by state or nongovernmental
                organizations, but this can be costly. In some cases, small private enterprises, paid di-
                rectly by the communities, are now doing this job satisfactorily.
                                                                                                           4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                               57


4.8.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Pump the water, keep the site clean, report malfunctions.                                 ☺
Caretaker.               Keep the site clean, check pump regularly, do small repairs.                              
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, collect fees.                                                    
Area mechanic.           Perform major repairs.                                                                  
External support.        Check water quality, and motivate and guide local organization.                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


4.8.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean pump and site.                                                                     Broom, brush.

 Weekly
— grease bearings.                           Grease or oil.                                Lubricator.

 Monthly
— check the pumpstand parts.                                                               Spanner.

 Occasionally
— replace the pumpstand parts;               Nuts and bolts, bearings, pump handle. Spanners, screwdriver.

— re-mill the threads in the pump             Oil.                                         Pipe threader, tackle.
  rod or main;

— replace the foot valve, plunger            Foot valve, plunger or cylinder.              Spanners, wrench.
  or cylinder;

— replace the pump rod or main.              Pump rods or main tubing.                     Spanners, wrench, pipe threader.

 Annually
— replace cupseals;                          Cupseals.                                     Spanners, wrench, knife, screw
                                                                                           driver, etc.

— repair the platform.                        Gravel sand, cement.                         Bucket, trowel.


             4.8.5 Potential problems
                         — the most common repair is replacing the plunger seals;
                         — there can be problems with the quality control of local manufacturers, especially
                           in African countries;
                         — the hook-and-eye connectors of the pump rods tend to break more often than
                           conventional connections, and the rods may also become disconnected, or bend
                           spontaneously;
                         — corrosion is a problem, especially where the groundwater is aggressive, and it can
                           affect the pump rods if they are not made of stainless steel, the rising main (if not
                           galvanized iron tubing), the cylinder, the housing for the pumphead bearing, and
                           other pumpstand parts;
                         — handles become shaky or broken, mainly because of worn-out bearings;
                         — the number of problems usually increases with increasing depth of the groundwater
                           (the maximum lift for a pump varies according to the brand, but is usually 45–
                           100 m).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
58


                      — with some pump brands, or when the water must be lifted from a great depth, the
                        pump handle may require considerable strength to turn it;
                      — to reduce the number of major repairs, the rising main should be made of the
                        highest-quality material available;
                      — rigorous quality control is needed for deep-well piston handpumps, since many
                        are produced in developing countries;
                      — deep-well piston handpumps may require considerable torque to start them, and
                        the pump may be driven by a windmill; as a result, rotary pumps are often pre-
                        ferred because of their lower starting torque.


           4.9 Centrifugal pump1
          4.9.1 The technology
                The essential components of a centrifu-
                gal pump are the fast-rotating impeller
                and the casing. Water flows into the cen-
                tre “eye” of the impeller, where centrifu-
                gal force pushes the water outwards, to
                the casing. The kinetic energy of the
                water is partly converted to useful pres-
                sure that forces the water into the deliv-
                ery pipe. Water leaving the central eye
                of the impeller creates a suction, which
                draws water from the source into the
                pump. An impeller and the matching
                section of the casing is called a “stage”.
                Several stages can be combined with a
                single shaft to increase the overall pres- Figure 4.9 Centrifugal pump
                sure (multiple-stage pump). The water
                passes through the successive stages, with
                an increase in pressure at each stage. Multiple-stage centrifugal pumps are normally
                used when water has to be pumped to a significant height (200 m or more). For deep-
                well applications, the centrifugal pump and electrical engine are housed in a single unit.
                When the unit is to be located under the water level, a submersible pump will be re-
                quired (see section 4.10).
                    One limitation of a centrifugal pump is that the suction height cannot be higher than
                about 7 m above the water level. To overcome this limitation, and make it possible to
                place the pump above the suction limit, some pumps inject a jet stream of water into the
                suction pipe inlet. The kinetic energy of the injected water is partly converted into extra
                pressure, which helps to lift the water above the suction limit of the pump.
                Initial cost: Highly dependent on the power rating and quality of the pump.
                Head range: Typically, 4–50 m per stage, with multiple-stage pumps to 200 m and more.
                Yield: Varies widely, according to many options available in the market.
                Area of use: Anywhere engine power is available.
                Trademarks: Grundfos; Drysale; Sta-rite; and others.




                1
                    Fondation de l’Eau (1985); Fraenkel (1986); Pollak (1988); Castilla Ruiz & Galvis Castano (1993).
                                                                                                           4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                               59


             4.9.2 Main O&M activities
                     During pumping, the condition of the engine, the water output of the pump, and the
                     temperature of bearings should be checked, and any vibration should be reported. In
                     some systems, valves must be closed manually just before switching off the pump, to
                     retain water in the system. Most centrifugal pumps are not self-priming, and if the pump
                     house runs dry, clean water has to be poured into it.
                         The pump inlet should be maintained, and the pump and engine kept clean. A record
                     of the pump running hours, problems, servicing, maintenance and repairs should be
                     kept in a logbook. The pump should be dismantled annually, and the rising main re-
                     moved from the well and inspected. The inlet screen, foot valve and pipe threads should
                     be checked, and any corroded or damaged threads re-cut. Badly corroded pipes should
                     be replaced. The foot valve may need a new rubber, or it may have to be replaced. All
                     other repairs, such as replacing the bearings or the impeller, are costly and should be
                     carried out by qualified technicians.
                         For several reasons, centrifugal pumps are not suitable for village-level maintenance.
                     Pump maintenance requires an organization that focuses on the training and reliability
                     of the pump caretaker, and on raising funds to support the pump O&M. In the event of
                     breakdown, the pump committee must be able to mobilize a trained area mechanic quickly.
                     Centrifugal pumps are designed for specific ranges of flow and pressure, and it is impor-
                     tant that pump characteristics and operating conditions are matched by someone prop-
                     erly trained. The starting torque of a centrifugal pump is relatively low, which is an
                     advantage for windmill and solar power applications.


4.9.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Occasionally assist the caretaker.                                                        ☺
Caretaker.               Operate engine and pump; check functioning; perform small repairs.                      
Area mechanic.           Perform major repairs.                                                                  
External support.        Check water quality; motivate and guide the local committee.                           
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



4.9.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— clean the inlet.                                                                         Depends on the installation.

 Occasionally
— prepare the pump for use by                Clean water.                                  Funnel, bucket or can, spanner,
  priming it with clean water;                                                             wrench.

— replace the impeller;                      Impeller.                                     Spanners, screwdrivers, special
                                                                                           tools.

— replace the bearing.                       Bearing.                                      Spanners, screwdrivers, special
                                                                                           tools.

 Annually
— take the pump apart and clean it.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
60


          4.9.5 Potential problems
                      — debris, sand or other particles may enter the pump, causing abrasion damage;
                      — an inlet becomes clogged, causing cavitation;
                      — the pipeline system is damaged by severe surges in water pressure, caused by start-
                        ing and stopping the pump abruptly;
                      — the pump and engine are badly aligned, causing the bearings to wear out quickly;
                      — the main limitations of a centrifugal pump are its cost, the need to ensure a reli-
                        able supply of electricity or fuel, and the need for skilled technicians to maintain
                        and repair the pump.


          4.10 Submersible pump1
         4.10.1 The technology
                For deep-well applications, centrifugal
                pumps are housed with the electric en-
                gine in a single unit that is designed to
                be submerged. Usually, a multiple-stage
                pump is used. The multiple-stage pump
                is placed above a motor and under a
                                                                                             Main
                check valve that leads to the rising main.
                Submersible pumps are self-priming, if
                they do not run dry. To prevent the
                pump from running dry, the water level
                in the well must be monitored, and
                pumping must be stopped if the water
                level drops to the intake of the pump.
                Power is delivered through a heavily in-
                sulated electricity cable connected to a
                switch panel at the side of the well. The Figure 4.10 Submersible pump.
                power may come from an AC mains con-
                nection, a generator, or a solar power system.
                Initial cost: A pump for a 50–100 m head, and a flow rate of 10 m3/h, costs about US$ 2500
                (1995 prices); a pump for the same head range and an output of 45 m3/h costs about
                US$ 7000 (UNDP/IAPSO, 1995).
                Range of depth: 7–200 m or more.
                Efficiency range: 40–70%.
                Trademarks: Guinard; Goulds; Grundfos; KSB; Meyers; and others.


         4.10.2 Main O&M activities
                During pumping, the water flow and power consumption should be monitored. If the
                water is turbid only during the first stages of pumping, the rising main is corroding. If
                the turbidity continues after the first stages, the well must be cleaned or the pump will
                wear quickly. Running hours, problems, servicing, maintenance and repairs should be
                reported in a logbook.
                   The pump and rising main should be removed from the well and inspected annually.
                The inlet screen, check valve and pipe threads should be examined, and corroded or


                1
                    Fraenkel (1986); Pollak (1988); Castilla Ruiz & Galvis Castano (1993).
                                                                                                           4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                               61


                    damaged threads re-cut. Badly corroded pipes should be replaced. Electric cables should
                    be inspected, particularly the insulation between the cables. All other repairs, such as
                    replacing a pump stage, involve high costs and must be carried out by a qualified techni-
                    cian. Submersible pumps are not suitable for village-level maintenance, although they
                    can often function for years with hardly any maintenance. The local committee or water
                    agency should focus on the training and reliability of the caretaker, on cost-recovery, and
                    on being able to mobilize an area mechanic quickly, in case the pump breaks down.


4.10.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Users.                   Occasionally, assist the pump caretaker.                                                  ☺
Caretaker.               Operate pump; check water quantity and clearness.                                       
Area mechanic.           Perform major repairs.                                                                  
External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide the local                                      
                         committee/water agency.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



4.10.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                            Materials and spare parts                Tools and equipment

 Annually
— take the pump out of the well, clean                                                     Rig, pulley, two pipe wrenches,
  the inlet screen and check the valve.                                                    screwdriver, spanner.

 Occasionally
— replace the fuse to the electric motor;         Fuse.                                    Screwdriver.

— replace the piping;                                                                      Rig, pulley, two pipe wrenches,
                                                                                           screwdriver, spanner.

— replace the pump stages.                                                                 Rig, pulley, two pipe wrenches,
                                                                                           screwdriver, spanner, specialized
                                                                                           tools.


            4.10.5 Potential problems
                         — sand or other particles may enter the pump and cause abrasion damage;
                         — the rising main may corrode;
                         — the pipeline system can be damaged by the severe pressure surges that result when
                           the pump is started or stopped abruptly;
                         — the main limitations of a submersible centrifugal pump are its price, the need to
                           maintain a reliable supply of electricity or fuel, and the high level of technology
                           involved.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
62


          4.11 Hydraulic ram pump1
          4.11.1 The technology
                Hydraulic rams (hydrams) are devices
                that pump water by using the shock en-
                ergy of a flowing water mass that is sud-
                denly forced to stop. They have to be
                installed at a lower level than the surface
                of the water source (e.g. a spring or
                stream). Only part of the water from the
                stream or spring is pumped higher. At
                the beginning of the pump cycle, water
                flows from the source down an inclined
                and rigid drive pipe (several metres
                long) into the hydram body and out
                through the impulse valve. When the
                water has accumulated enough velocity,
                it forces the impulse valve to close sud-
                denly and the water in the drive pipe Figure 4.11 Hydraulic ram pump
                comes to a sudden stop. This produces
                a shockwave in the water mass, forcing an amount of water through the delivery valve
                (located in the pump body) into a buffering air chamber, and from there up the delivery
                pipe. The air is supplied by a small air-inlet valve in the pump body. In newer designs, the
                buffer chamber contains a piece of compressible rubber, instead of air. After the
                shockwave, the pressure in the pump body drops, the delivery valve closes, and the im-
                pulse valve is opened by the force of a spring or weight. The water in the drive pipe
                begins to flow through the impulse valve and the pump cycle starts again. Hydrams usu-
                ally operate at 30–100 pumping cycles per minute. Compared to other pumps, their
                output is generally low, but the efficiency of newer designs has improved.
                Initial cost: No data available.
                Pumping head: 1–100 m (maximum is about 40 times the supply head).
                Yields as percentage of inflow: 26% for a 2 m drop and 6 m lift; 5% for 3 m drop and 30
                m lift.
                Expected lifetime: 20–30 years.
                Area of use: Rural areas where the water source falls by at least 1 m, and where little of
                the collected water is to be pumped higher than the water source.
                Trademarks: Blake (UK); Cecoco (Japan); Las Gaviotas (Colombia); Premier (India);
                Rochfer (Brazil); Sano (Germany); Schlumpf (Switzerland); and others. Hydrams are
                also made in workshops.

         4.11.2 Main O&M activities
                Hydraulic rams have to be started by hand, by repeatedly opening the impulse valve until
                the pump continues to operate by itself. The weight or spring tension on the impulse
                valve may have to be adjusted to reach the right frequency. The pump inlet, pump and
                site must be kept clean.
                    The delivery valve must be checked weekly, to see that is functioning properly, and
                bolts should be tightened. Occasionally, the pump will have to be dismantled and the


                1
                    Fraenkel (1986); Hofkes & Visscher (1986); Meier (1990); Mathewson (1993).
                                                                                                           4. WATER-LIFTING DEVICES
                                                                                                                               63


                    accumulated sand and silt removed. The frequency with which the rubbers of the valves
                    have to be replaced will depend largely on the quality of the rubber. The valves and the
                    valve spring may also wear out and, if the water is corrosive, the pump and drive pipe may
                    need to be replaced sooner than expected.
                        Because of the low cost of a hydraulic ram pump and its intake works, this technology
                    is suitable for communal use. A caretaker should be appointed for O&M, but little train-
                    ing is needed.


4.11.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Caretaker.               Check and start the pump, clean the pump, perform basic repairs.                          ☺
Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, collect contributions.                                           
Area mechanic.           Replace the valves.                                                                     
External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide the local organization.                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


4.11.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check that the pump is functioning.

 Weekly
— check the delivery valve.                                                                Spanner.

 Occasionally
— restart the hydram;

— adjust the impulse valve;                                                                Spanner.

— tighten the bolts;                                                                       Spanner.

— replace the valve rubbers;                 Valve rubbers, old car tyre tube.             Spanner, screwdriver, knife.

— carry our major repairs;                   Valves, valve spring.                         Spanners, wrench, pipe threader.

— dismantle and clean the pump.                                                            Spanner, wrench.

 Annually
— repair the inlet and platform.             Cement, sand, gravel.                         Bucket, trowel.


             4.11.5 Potential problems
                         — worn valve rubbers, sand and silt in the pump body;
                         — hydraulic ram pumps need a water supply that is at least one metre higher than
                           the pump body;
                         — output is generally low with a hydraulic ram pump, particularly if the pumping lift
                           is high and the amount of water pumped is only a fraction of that taken in through
                           the drive pipe;
                         — besides the cost of the pump itself, there are the additional expenses for intake
                           works, the drive pipe, the pump platform and the drain.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
64


           5. Power systems



           5.1 Introduction
                The preferred energy sources for water-supply systems in poor communities are manual
                effort, animal traction and gravity. Solar power and windmills are attractive alternatives
                because there are no energy costs, but they require greater capital investment, greater
                organization and a higher level of technical capacity than traditional power sources.
                Wind power may be a good option if there is wind throughout the year, with average
                monthly speeds exceeding 2.5 m/s. Solar power is a good alternative in areas with a lot of
                sunshine, where there is no electricity network, and where it is difficult to service inter-
                nal combustion engines. Solar power is becoming more attractive as photovoltaic cells
                become more efficient.
                    If an engine-driven pump is chosen and there is a local electricity network, it is gener-
                ally advisable to use an electric motor instead of an internal combustion engine, since
                the O&M of an electric motor is far less complicated.
                    The following power systems have been included in this manual, because they are of
                great interest in the sector today:
                      — windmill;
                      — solar systems;
                      — diesel engine.
                The windmill and solar power systems were chosen as examples of alternative power
                systems, and the diesel engine as a conventional system.


           5.2 Windmills1
          5.2.1 The technology
                Windmills can provide the energy to
                move a pump. The most common mod-
                els have a rotor fixed to a horizontal axis
                that is mounted on a steel tower. The
                tower of the windmill is usually 9–15 m
                high. Wind drives the rotor and this
                movement is transmitted to drive a pump
                (usually a piston type), either directly or
                via a gear box. A vane keeps the rotor
                facing the wind during normal wind
                speeds, but there is also a mechanism to
                position the rotor parallel to the wind
                to avoid damage to it from excessive wind


                                                                 Figure 5.2 Windmill

                1
                    Hofkes & Visscher (1986); van Meel & Smulders (1989); McGowan & Hodgkin (1992).
                                                                                               5. POWER SYSTEMS
                                                                                                            65


                    speeds. Some windmills are fixed facing the wind, others are manually oriented, and
                    some have a braking system.
                       The right combination of pump, windmill and wind characteristic is important for
                    the success of this technology. To be economically feasible, the average monthly wind
                    speed at rotor level should be 2.5 m/s (or more) during the whole pumping season.
                    Because wind can be unreliable, it is recommended that there be water-storage facilities
                    with enough water to last for 3–4 days.
                       In windy areas where fuel is expensive or the supply is unreliable, windmill pumps are
                    a competitive alternative to diesel-driven pumps.
                    Initial cost: US$ 200–500 per m2 of rotor area, not including the tower (1989 prices,
                    McGowan & Hodgkin, 1992).
                    Yield: For a normal windmill-driven pump at 3 m/s wind speed, the yield at a 10 m head
                    is typically 0.12 litres/s per m2 of rotor area.
                    Area of use: Rural areas where average wind speeds exceed 2.5 m/s.
                    Expected life: Twenty years or more.
                    Trademarks: Aeromotor; Dempster; Fiasa; Kijito; Southern Cross.

             5.2.2 Main O&M activities
                    Operation is often automatic. Some windmills require manual release of the furling
                    mechanism after excessive wind. When no pumping is needed, the windmill may be
                    temporarily furled out of the wind by hand. Windmill and pump should be checked
                    regularly and any abnormality corrected.
                       Every month, the windmill and pump must be checked visually. The bolts on the
                    pumping rods tend to come loose, and loose nuts and bolts should be tightened, and
                    moving parts greased, as necessary. Paintwork should be maintained annually, and the
                    lubrication oil changed in the gear box (if one is used). Poor maintenance will lead to
                    the bearings wearing out rapidly and the wind will then damage the rotor and other
                    pump parts. Maintenance for a windmill-driven piston pump is comparable to that for a
                    heavily-used handpump.
                       Usually, one person is responsible for the windmill, pump and storage system. This
                    person has to be trained for the job and may receive a caretaker’s fee. Good preventive
                    maintenance may extend the life of a windmill to well over 20 years, while bad mainte-
                    nance may cause serious damage within a year.


5.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                  Roles                                                             Skills required

Caretaker.              Check, tighten and lubricate moving parts; paint; manually furl         
                        and unfurl the windmill; warn a technician in case of damage.

Area technician.        Replace bearings, rotor blades and other parts; repair furling        
                        mechanism, gear box, etc.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
66


5.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts            Tools and equipment

 Monthly
— visually check the pump and windmill;

— tighten nuts and bolts;                                                         Spanners, wrench.

— lubricate the moving parts.                Oil or grease.                       Lubricator, funnel, container for
                                                                                  used oil, spanners.

 Occasionally
— repair the furling mechanism;              Special parts, nuts, bolts, rope.    Spanners, wrench.

— replace worn bearings.                     Bearing.                             Spanners, wrench, screwdriver.

 Annually
— paint the windmill.                        Anticorrosive paint.                 Steel brush, paintbrush.


            5.2.5 Potential problems
                        — poorly-trained caretakers may accidentally block the furling mechanism, which
                          can lead to the windmill being damaged in high winds;
                        — moving parts may wear out quickly, because they are inadequately lubricated;
                        — when wind speeds are lower than 2 m/s most windmills cannot pump, and many
                          windmills are not economically viable when the average wind speed is below 3 m/s;
                        — to avoid problems with pump quality and performance, choose a local manufac-
                          turer or supplier with a proven track record, and who supplies a good-quality brand
                          of windmill.


             5.3 Solar power system1
            5.3.1 The technology
                 Photovoltaic (PV), or solar, cells convert
                 the energy from light directly to electric-
                 ity. The cells are shaped like thin squares,
                 rectangles or circles, and are made from
                 special materials such as silicon, germa-
                 nium, selenium, etc. A number of solar
                 cells wired together under a protective
                 glass plate is called a module, which is
                 the basic element a consumer can buy.
                 Modules can be connected in parallel or
                 series, according to the required voltage
                 and current. A group of modules is
                 called an array. It must be installed where
                 it is completely exposed to sunlight and
                 protected against damage by cattle or
                                                              Figure 5.3 Photovoltaic system
                 vandalism. The electricity produced by
                 the modules may go directly to an en-
                 gine or be stored in batteries.
                      System performance can be improved in several ways, such as by having the provider
                 design the system for a specific application. For example, the pump and electric engine

                 1
                     Derrick A, Francis C, Bokalders V (1991); McGowan & Hodgkin (1992); Neway (1992).
                                                                                                                  5. POWER SYSTEMS
                                                                                                                               67


                     could be designed to be used with PV systems. To be economically feasible for pumping
                     the daily average solar radiation at the site should be at least 3 kWh/m2 for every month
                     of the year. It is also recommended that at least a 3-day supply of water or or electricity be
                     stored. Solar cells are becoming cheaper and more efficient.
                     Initial cost: US$ 5–7 per watt (peak capacity for modules; wholesale price, 1995, Eu-
                     rope). Simple systems, with a 30 W pump and array, cost about US$ 1000, but larger
                     borehole systems may cost more than US$ 50 000 (including all components, but exclud-
                     ing transportation and taxes).
                     Area of use: Where sufficient sunlight is available, especially for small-scale activities.
                     Expected life cycle: Eighteen years or more for modules.
                     Trademarks (complete systems): Grundfos; Mono; Heliodinamica; Fluxinos; Hydrasol;
                     Kyocera, etc.

             5.3.2 Main O&M activities
                     Dust must be removed from the glass plates of the module regularly. In addition, exter-
                     nal wires, the supporting structure of the array, covers for the electronic components,
                     and a fence may need occasional repairs. Wood or metal parts that are sensitive to corro-
                     sion must be painted every year. Much of the additional electrical and electronic equip-
                     ment should function automatically for at least 10–15 years, although batteries, AC/DC
                     converters, engines and pumps may need more frequent servicing.
                         Local organization can be very simple, consisting mainly of appointing a caretaker
                     and collecting fees. However, an adequate number of technicians for repairing such
                     systems must be available at regional or national level.


5.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Caretaker.               Wipe the modules clean; repair the fence, supporting structure                            ☺
                         and wires.

Area or specialist       Perform major repairs.                                                                 
technician
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Highly qualified.


5.3.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                     Materials and spare parts                       Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— clean the module surface.                Water.                                          Cloth, bucket.

 Occasionally
— repair or replace additional             Engine brushes, spare battery, AC/DC            Spanners, screwdriver, pliers, etc.
  components;                              converter, other complete components.

— repair the fence.                        Wood, nails, wire.                              Hammer, machete, pliers.

 Rarely
— repair the mounting structure;           Cement, wood.

— repair the wiring.                       Electricity cable, insulation tape.             Knife, pliers.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
68


          5.3.5 Potential problems
                      —   vandalism, theft, or cattle damage to the cells, modules or system;
                      —   the storage batteries wear out relatively quickly;
                      —   the initial investment is high;
                      —   the system is not feasible for areas with daily radiation amounts below 3 kWh/m2.


           5.4 Diesel generator1
          5.4.1 The technology
                Diesel generators are frequently used as
                a stationary power source. The main
                parts of the engine are the cylinders, pis-
                tons, valves and crankshaft. Air is com-
                pressed by a piston inside a cylinder and
                diesel fuel is injected into it by a high-
                pressure pump, which results in an ex-
                plosion that moves the piston. In turn,
                the piston turns a crankshaft, which can
                be put to use, for example, by driving a
                pump or electricity generator. Valves in
                the cylinder regulate the inflow of fuel
                and air, and the outflow of exhaust gases.
                    Diesel engines differ from petrol en-
                gines in that they do not have spark-plugs
                to ignite the fuel mixture, and work at Figure 5.4 Diesel engine and centrifugal pump
                much higher pressures. Diesel engines
                need less maintenance that petrol engines, and they are more efficient. Diesel engines
                can differ in size (from 1–6 cylinders or more) and speed (revolutions per minute), and
                by the number of engine cycles (2-stroke, or 4-stroke). In general, low-speed four-stroke
                engines last longer, and high-speed two-stroke engines produce more power per kg of
                engine weight. Water-cooled engines generally need less maintenance than air-cooled
                engines.
                      — diesel engines are well-suited for stationary, high-power output;
                      — with good maintenance they are dependable energy sources;
                      — it is important to select a brand that has a good reputation, and for which servic-
                        ing and spare parts are locally available.
                Initial cost: From US$ 200 per kW for 25 kW engines, to US$ 600 per kW for 2 kW
                engines (1990 data, installation and other costs not included; McGowan & Hodgkin,
                1992).
                Power range: Starts at 2 kW.
                Life cycle: A diesel generator can operate for between 5000–50 000 hours (average 20
                000 hours), depending on the quality of the engine, whether it has been installed cor-
                rectly, and whether O&M has been properly carried out.
                Area of use: Globally, especially for high-power needs and where no grid electricity is
                available.
                Manufacturers: Kubota; Lister-Petter; Lambardini, etc.


                1
                    Carlsson & Drake (1990); van Winden (1990); McGowan & Hodgkin (1992).
                                                                                                 5. POWER SYSTEMS
                                                                                                             69


             5.4.2 Main O&M activities
                    A diesel engine must be operated by a trained caretaker, and every engine has its own
                    operating instructions. Before starting the engine, the levels of fuel, oil and cooling wa-
                    ter (if not air cooled) should be checked, and topped up if any are low. During opera-
                    tion, the caretaker should check the fuel level and oil pressure, and that the pump and
                    generator are functioning properly. Some moving parts may need to be lubricated manu-
                    ally. The engine speed should also be checked, because if it is too low, the engine will
                    have a low efficiency and carbon rapidly builds up in it. This will increase the frequency
                    with which the engine needs to be serviced. All data on fluid levels and running hours
                    should be recorded in a logbook. Every day, the outside of the engine must be cleaned
                    and, in dusty conditions, the air filter must be checked and cleaned. In moderately dusty
                    conditions, oil-bath air filters are cleaned once a week, dry-paper air filters a little less
                    frequently. If the engine is connected to a pump or generator with a v-belt, the belt will
                    need to be replaced regularly. Once a year, the engine house must be painted and re-
                    paired.
                        The engine is serviced for preventive maintenance according to the number of hours
                    it has run. Every 50 hours, the clutch (if present) must be greased. Every 250 hours, the
                    filters must be cleaned or replaced, the oil changed, and the nuts, bolts and exhaust pipe
                    checked. Every 1500 hours, a major service overhaul will be needed, that includes decar-
                    bonising the engine, adjusting the valve clearance, etc. Diesel engines require a lot of
                    simple maintenance and if this is done well, they can have a long service life. Therefore,
                    the training and supervision of the caretaker are important. More complicated mainte-
                    nance tasks and repairs have to be done by a well-trained mechanic with access to spare
                    parts. The organizing committee must make sure that generator servicing is carried out
                    on schedule, and that they can respond quickly in case the generator breaks down.


5.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                 Roles                                                               Skills required

Caretaker.             Operate the engine, keep a logbook, perform minor servicing,             
                       warn in case of irregularities.

Water committee.       Supervise the caretaker, collect fees, organize major services            
                       and repairs.

Area mechanic.         Perform major services and repairs.                                      
External support.      Train the caretaker and area mechanics.                                 
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
70


5.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                    Materials and spare parts                Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check fluid levels, and top-up if       Fuel, engine oil, cooling liquid.        Funnels, containers for liquids.
  necessary;

— start and stop the engine;

— keep a logbook.                         Paper, pen.

 Weekly
— check the air filter, and clean or      New, dry paper filter, kerosene and      Wrench.
  replace it if necessary;                engine oil.

— check for oil and fuel leaks;

— tighten any loose nuts and bolts.                                                Spanners.

 Every 250 hours
— change engine oil.                      Engine oil.                              Spanners.

 Regularly
— clean or replace filters;               Oil filter, fuel filter.                 Spanners, special tools.

— replace the drive belt.                 Drive belt.                              Spanners.

 Every 500–2000 hours
— decarbonize the engine, clean                                                    Spanners, brass wire brush, special
  injector nozzles, adjust valves, etc.                                            tools

 Occasionally
— replace engine parts;                   Nozzles, injectors, gaskets, bearings,   Depends on the part to be replaced.
                                          fuel pump, etc.

— repair the engine mounting and          Cement, sand, gravel, nuts and bolts,    Trowel, bucket, hammer, chisel,
  housing.                                nails, galvanized corrugated iron        saw, spanners, etc.
                                          sheets, wood, etc.


             5.4.5 Possible problems
                       — the generator wears excessively, because O&M is poorly carried out, or neglected;
                       — the engine is run at less than full loading, which leads to rapid carbon build-up
                         and low engine operating efficiency;
                       — the drive belts break;
                       — maintenance is required frequently;
                       — fuel is difficult to get and its cost is high;
                       — from time to time, a specialist mechanic will be needed to service and repair the
                         generator.
                                                                              6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                             71


6. Water treatment



6.1 Introduction
    Water can be contaminated by the following agents:
       ■   Pathogens – disease-causing organisms that include bacteria, amoebas and viruses,
           as well as the eggs and larvae of parasitic worms.
       ■   Harmful chemicals from human activities (industrial wastes, pesticides, fertilizers).
       ■   Chemicals and minerals from the natural environment, such as arsenic, common salt
           and fluorides. Some non-harmful contaminants may influence the taste, smell,
           colour or temperature of water, and make it unacceptable to the community.
    Water from surface sources is often contaminated by microbes, whereas groundwater is
    normally safer, but even groundwater can be contaminated by harmful chemicals from
    human activities or from the natural environment. Rainwater captured by a rooftop har-
    vesting system or with small catchment dams is relatively safe, provided that the first
    water is allowed to flow to waste when the rainy season starts. The amount of water to be
    treated should also be assessed. This can be estimated by assuming that each person will
    need a minimum of 20–50 litres of water a day for drinking, cooking, laundry and per-
    sonal hygiene.
        A community should be consulted when choosing a water-treatment system and should
    be made aware of the costs associated with the technology. In particular, community
    members should be made aware of the behavioural and/or cultural changes needed to
    make the system effective over the long-term and thus be acceptable to them. Communi-
    ties may also need to be educated about protecting water sources from animal or human
    contamination, and mobilized. It should be emphasized that all the positive effects of a
    water-treatment system could be jeopardized if the water is not drawn, stored and trans-
    ported carefully and hygienically.
        The Fact Sheets in this section deal with both community and household methods for
    treating water. Some household treatment methods and their effectiveness are summa-
    rized in Table 6.1, whereas the following household and community water-treatment
    technologies are described in greater detail:

    Household water-treatment systems
      — boiling;
      — household slow sand filter;
      — domestic chlorination.
    Community water-treatment systems
      — storage and sedimentation;
      — up-flow roughing filter;
      — slow sand filtration;
      — chlorination in piped water-supply systems.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
72


      TABLE 6.1 HOUSEHOLD WATER-TREATMENT SYSTEMS AND THEIR EFFECTIVENESSa
                                                            Effectiveness over factors that affect water quality

                                      Bacteria,   Guinea-                                                    Odour,   Organic
Treatment system                      amoebas      worm     Cercaria   Fe, Mn   Fluoride   Arsenic   Salts    taste   matter    Turbidity

Straining through fine cloth
Consists in pouring raw water           —b        ☺☺☺         —         —         —          —        —       —         ☺         ☺
through a piece of fine, clean,
cotton cloth to remove some
of the suspended solids.

Aeration
Oxidizes iron (Fe) and mang-             —          —         —        ☺☺☺        —          —        —      ☺☺         ☺          —
anese (Mn). Good aeration of
the water is also important for
slow, sand filtration to be
effective, especially if there is
not enough oxygen in the
surface water. Water can easily
be aerated by shaking it in a
vessel, or by allowing it to
trickle through perforated trays
containing small stones.

Storage/pre-settlement
Storing water for only one day           ☺          —       ☺☺☺         ☺         —          —        —       ☺         ☺        ☺☺
can eliminate some bacteria,
but it should be stored for 48
hours to eliminate cercaria (snail
larvae). The longer the water is
stored, the more the suspended
solids and pathogens will settle
to the bottom of the container.
The top water can then be used
after sedimentation.

Coagulation, flocculation
and settlement
In coagulation, a liquid coagu-          ☺          —         ☺         ☺       ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺               —       ☺         ☺        ☺☺
lant, such as aluminium sulfate,
is added to the water to attract
suspended particles. The water
is then gently stirred to allow the
particles to come together and
form larger particles (floccula-
tion), which can then be
removed by sedimentation,
settlement or filtration. The
amount of coagulant needed
will depend on the nature of the
contaminating chemical
compounds and solids.

Slow sand filtration
Water passes slowly downwards         ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺                              —        ☺☺         —      ☺☺         ☺       ☺☺☺
through a bed of fine sand at a
steady rate. The water should
not be too turbid, otherwise the
filter will get clogged. Patho-
gens are naturally removed in
the top layer where a biological
film builds up. A potential
problem is that some house-
holds do not use this technology
effectively and the water can
remain contaminated.



a
    Adapted from: Skinner & Shaw (1998).
b
    The treatments were categorized as being: of no effect, or of unknown effectiveness (—); of little effect (☺); moderately effective
    (☺☺); highly effective (☺☺☺).
                                                                                                                      6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                         73


    TABLE 6.1 CONTINUED
                                                            Effectiveness over factors that affect water quality

                                      Bacteria,   Guinea-                                                    Odour,     Organic
Treatment system                      amoebas      worm     Cercaria   Fe, Mn   Fluoride   Arsenic   Salts    taste     matter    Turbidity

Rapid sand filtration
The sand used is coarser than            ☺        ☺☺          ☺        ☺☺         —          —        —       ☺           ☺        ☺☺
in slow sand filtration and the
flow rate is higher. The method
is used to remove suspended
solids and is effective after the
water has been cleared with
coagulation/flocculation. There
is no build-up of biological film,
hence the water will still need
to be disinfected. It is easier to
remove trapped debris from
upflow sand filters, compared
to filters in which the water
flows downwards.

Charcoal filter
Granular charcoal (or granu-             —        ☺☺         ☺☺         ☺         —          —        —      ☺☺☺          —         ☺
lated activated carbon) can be
used in filtration and is effective
in improving the taste, odour
and colour of the water. How-
ever, it should be replaced
regularly, because bacteria
can breed in it.

Ceramic filter
The filter is a porous, unglazed      ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺                       —         —          —        —      ☺☺          ☺☺ ☺☺☺
ceramic cylinder and impurities
are deposited on its surface.
Filters with very small pores
can remove most pathogens.
Open, porous ceramic jars can
also be used. The ceramic filter
method can only be used with
fairly clear water.

Solar disinfection
Ultraviolet radiation from the        ☺☺☺ ☺☺                 ☺☺         —         —          —        —       —           —          —
sun will destroy most patho-
gens, and increasing the
temperature of the water
enhances the effectiveness of
the radiation. In tropical areas,
most pathogens can be killed
by exposing the contaminated
water to sun for five hours,
centred around midday. An easy
way to do this, is to expose
(half-blackened) clear glass/
plastic bottles of water to the
sun. Shaking the bottle before
irradiation increases the
effectiveness of the treatment.
The water must be clear for
this treatment to be effective.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
74


     TABLE 6.1 CONTINUED
                                                          Effectiveness over factors that affect water quality

                                    Bacteria,   Guinea-                                                    Odour,   Organic
Treatment system                    amoebas      worm     Cercaria   Fe, Mn   Fluoride   Arsenic   Salts    taste   matter    Turbidity

Chemical disinfection
Chlorination is the most widely     ☺☺☺           —       ☺☺☺         —         —          —        —       ☺       ☺☺☺          —
used method of disinfecting
drinking-water. Liquids (such
as bleach), powders (such as
bleaching powder), and
purpose-made tablets can be
used. Iodine can also be used
as a chemical disinfectant.
Deciding on the right amount of
chlorine to use can be difficult,
because the effectiveness of
chlorination depends on the
quality of the untreated water,
which may vary according to
the season.

Boiling
Bringing the water to a rolling     ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺                       —         —          —        —       ☺         ☺          —
boil will kill most pathogens,
and many are killed at lower
temperatures (e.g. 70 °C). This
approach can be expensive,
however, because fuel/charcoal
is needed to boil the water.

Desalination/evaporation
Desalination by distillation        ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺ ☺☺☺
produces water without
chemical salts and the method
can be used at household level.
The method can be expensive
because of the capital invest-
ment needed and because
fuel/charcoal is used to heat
the water. The volume of water
produced is also low.




              6.1.1 Should water be chlorinated?1
                     The water-treatment methods described above can reduce the number of pathogens in
                     water, but do not always eliminate them completely. And although boiling and solar dis-
                     infection are effective, the methods are impractical with large volumes of water. In con-
                     trast, chemical disinfection inactivates pathogenic organisms and the method can be
                     used with large volumes of water. Chlorine compounds usually destroy pathogens after
                     30 minutes of contact time, and free residual chlorine (0.2–0.5 mg per litre of treated
                     water) can be maintained in the water supply to provide ongoing disinfection. Several
                     chlorine compounds, such as sodium hypochlorite and calcium hypochlorite, can be
                     used domestically, but the active chlorine concentrations of such sources can be differ-
                     ent and this should be taken into account when calculating the amount of chlorine to
                     add to the water. The amount of chlorine that will be needed to kill the pathogens will be
                     affected by the quality of the untreated water and by the strength of the chlorine com-
                     pound used. If the water is excessively turbid, it should be filtered or allowed to settle
                     before chlorinating it.



                     1
                         From Parr, Smith & Shaw (1995).
                                                                                   6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                                   75


6.1.2 Reducing the concentration of chemicals in water
      Iron and manganese
      Water collected from boreholes can have a high concentration of iron (greater than 0.3
      mg/l, the WHO guideline value). This can be the result of a naturally high iron content
      in the soil, or the result of corrosion (from iron pipes, borehole casings and screens).
      The iron gives the water an unpleasant metallic taste and odour, stains laundry and white
      enamel on sinks and bowls, and discolours food. Although such levels of iron are not
      known to be harmful, the undesirable properties can cause communities to accept con-
      taminated water that has no taste, instead of safe water that has a metallic taste. Most of
      the iron can be removed simply, by aerating the water and filtering it through sand and
      gravel. The sand and gravel used in the filters will need to be cleaned periodically.
          Similar problems arise when water has excessive manganese concentrations (above
      0.1 mg/l, the WHO guideline value), but again the water can be treated by aeration,
      followed by filtration and settlement.

      Fluoride
      High concentrations of fluoride (above 1.5 mg/l, the WHO guideline value) can dam-
      age bones and teeth. Low-cost treatment methods include the Nalgonda system (which
      uses lime to soften the water), and using alum as a coagulant. With either treatment, the
      water is then left to settle at the same time it is being chlorinated.

      Arsenic
      Arsenic is widely distributed throughout the Earth’s crust and enters water as dissolved
      minerals. It can also enter water bodies in industrial effluents, or by deposition from the
      atmosphere. Arsenic concentrations greater than the WHO guideline value of 0.01 mg/
      l are toxic. Simple treatment methods include adding lime to soften the water, or adding
      alum as a coagulant, followed by settlement. When arsenic (or fluoride) is to be removed
      at household level, the implementation should always be carefully planned and supported
      by the community.

6.1.3 Solar disinfection1
      The principle underlying solar disinfection is that microorganisms are vulnerable to light
      and heat. One easy and simple way to treat water is to use the SODIS system (SOlar
      DISinfection), which has been tested both in the laboratory and in the field. A transpar-
      ent container is filled with water and exposed to full sunlight for several hours. As soon
      as the water temperature reaches 50 °C, the inactivation process is accelerated and usu-
      ally leads to complete bacteriological disinfection. More information on this method can
      be obtained from the Swiss Federal Institute for Environmental Science and Technology
      (EAWAG).


6.2 Boiling2
6.2.1 The technology
      Heating water is an effective way to kill the microorganisms in it. WHO recommends that
      the water be brought to a vigorous boil. This will kill, or inactivate, most organisms that
      cause diarrhoea. High turbidity does not affect disinfection by boiling, but if the water is
      to be filtered, this must be done before boiling. For household use, water is mostly boiled
      in a pot on a stove. If it is not to be stored in the same pot in which it was boiled, the water

      1
          From Wegelin & Sommer (1998).
      2
          Gilman & Skillicorn (1985).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
76


                    should be poured into a clean storage
                    container immediately after boiling, so
                    that the heat of the boiled water will kill
                    most of the bacteria in the storage con-
                    tainer. Fuel costs, and the time involved
                    in boiling and cooling the water, limit
                    the usefulness of this method. A study
                    in Bangladesh estimated it would cost
                    7% of the average family budget to boil
                    all the water for the village (Gilman &
                    Skillicorn, 1985). Also, fuel prices con-
                    tinue to rise in most parts of the world.

            6.2.2 Main O&M activities
                    Disinfection of water by heating is nor-
                                                                Figure 6.2 Boiling of water
                    mally carried out within the household.
                    Usually, the water is brought to a rolling
                    boil in a clean pot on a stove, sometimes with herbs added to the water. The water is then
                    allowed to cool down. Care must be taken not to contaminate the water after boiling.
                        When fuel has to be collected or treated, this may take up a lot of a household’s time.
                    In the kitchen, everyday maintenance includes checking the stove and pots. The fre-
                    quency with which the stove will need to be repaired or replaced will depend on stove
                    design, the quality of materials and workmanship, and intensity of use. Pots are seldom
                    repaired, and earthen pots often need to be replaced. The necessary skills for O&M
                    activities are usually available in all communities.

6.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Household member. Collect fuel and water, boil water, clean utensils, monitor                                      ☺
                  boiled water supply, repair mud stove.

Blacksmith.              Repair metal stove.                                                                     
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.


6.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— collect fuel;                               Wood, charcoal, kerosene, cattle dung.        Rope, can, bag.

— boil the water;                             Water, fuel.                                  Stove, pot.

— clean the containers;                       Water, sand, ashes, soap.                     Cloth, brush.

— clean the stove.                            Water, sand, ashes, soap.                     Cloth, brush.

 Occasionally
— repair the stove.                           Mud, stones, metal.                           Pliers, hammer, steel saw, welder.
                                                                                6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                               77


6.2.5 Potential problems
            — the water becomes recontaminated after boiling;
            — fuel for boiling the water is scarce and, consequently, expensive;
            — boiled water tastes flat – this may be corrected by adding herbs to the water during
              boiling and not drinking it for six hours after it has been boiled.


 6.3 Household slow sand filter1
6.3.1 The technology
      With a household slow sand filter, water
      is passed slowly downwards through a
      bed of sand, where it is treated by a com-
      bination of biological, physical and
      chemical processes. Fine particles in the
      water are filtered out by the sand, while
      microorganisms grow on top of the sand
      filter and feed on bacteria, viruses and
      organic matter in the water.
          The filter can be made of clean 200-
      litre steel barrels connected by hoses.
      The system consists of a raw-water sup-
      ply tank, a filter tank and a clean water
      tank. A floating weir (that can be made
      of a bowl, two small tubes and a hose)
      in the supply tank maintains a constant
                                                   Figure 6.3 Household flows and filter
      flow of water to the top of the filter tank,
      where it is purified by passing down-
      wards through a 45–60-cm bed of washed sand and a 5-cm layer of fine gravel. The water
      flows through the sand at about 0.1 m/hour (1 m3 m-2 h-1). Water drains from the bottom
      layer of the filter tank via a perforated tube and is led to a clean water-storage tank. To
      prevent oxidation of the steel barrels, they must be treated with cement mortar, or any
      safe protective paint. Instead of steel barrels, tanks of ferrocement and other materials
      can also be used. All tanks should be protected with lids.
          With good operation and maintenance, a household slow sand filter produces water
      virtually free from disease-causing organisms.
      Initial cost: This depends on the local cost of used metal drums and other parts.
      Yield: 380 litres per day for a tank 0.45 m in diameter.
      Area of use: In places where drinking-water is unsafe and needs to be purified at house-
      hold level.
      Manufacturers: Local artisans can make a household slow sand filter.

6.3.2 Main O&M activities
      For a slow sand filter to be effective, the flow of water must be maintained at a constant
      0.1 m/h. This provides the organisms in the filter with a stable flow of nutrients and
      oxygen, and gives them time to purify the water. The flow rate of the water is regulated by
      adjusting the floating weir. The raw-water storage tank must never be allowed to empty.
         After a few weeks of operation, (or a few months, depending on the quality of the raw-
      water), the flow rate in the filter will become too low. At this point, 1–2 cm of sand and
      1
          USAID (1982).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
78


                    organic material must be scraped off the top of the filter, washed, dried in the sun and
                    put aside. When the filter bed becomes too thin, the washed sand is restored. This is
                    done by taking some more sand from the top of the filter, adding back the washed sand
                    from previous operations, and then placing the sand just taken out on top of the filter.
                    Every year, the tanks must be checked for corrosion, and any leaks repaired immediately.
                    Occasionally, the clean-water tank may need to be disinfected with chlorine, and a hose
                    or tap may need to be repaired. As a household slow sand filter is operated at family or
                    household level, the organizational structure for operation already exists. At least one
                    person in each household should be trained in matters of hygiene, and in the O&M of
                    the filtering system. It may also be beneficial to have a local laboratory to support and
                    train families on water-quality issues.


6.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                               Skills required

Family member.           Use water, fill raw-water tank, regulate flow, change sand filter,                        ☺
                         perform small repairs.

Local artisan.           Construct system, repair taps and leaks.                                                
External support.        Train family members, check water quality.                                             
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



6.3.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— fill raw-water reservoir;                   Raw water.                                    Bucket.

— check flow rate.                            Watch.

 About every six weeks
— scrape off sand from top of filter,
  wash, dry and store it.                     Water.                                        Scraper, bucket.

 Occasionally
— repair tap;                                 Washer, spare tap.                            Screwdriver, spanners.

— disinfect clean water tank.                 Chlorine.                                     Bowl, spoon.

 Yearly or less
— restore sand.                               Water, clean recycled and new sand.           Bucket, sieve.

 Every two years
— replace hoses.                              Hose.                                         Knife.



            6.3.5 Potential problems
                         — water quality drops if the flow rate through the filter is too high;
                         — if the water flow is interrupted for more than a few hours, or if the surface of the
                           filter runs dry, beneficial microorganisms in the filter may die and the effective-
                           ness of the filter may be impaired;
                         — excessive turbidity (>30 NTU) in the raw water can cause the filter to clog rapidly,
                           in which case a pre-filter may be needed;
                                                                             6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                           79


           — when water quality is very poor, harmful and bad-tasting products like ammonia
             may be formed in the lower layers of the filter;
           — smooth vertical surfaces in the filter tank may cause short circuits in the water
             flow, producing badly-filtered water;
           — in some regions, sand is expensive or difficult to get – as an alternative, other
             materials such as burnt rice husks can be used;
           — household slow sand filters require a substantial investment and dedicated O&M,
             and can thus be expensive.


6.4 Water chlorination at household level1
6.4.1 The technology
     Chlorination of water at household level
     can be used as an emergency measure
     or as part of everyday life. When water
     quality cannot be trusted, a carefully
     measured amount of concentrated chlo-
     rine solution is added to a container with
     a known amount of clear water. The mix-
     ture is stirred and left for at least 30 min-
     utes, to let the chlorine react and oxidize
     any organic matter in the water. After
     this, the water is safe to drink. The
     amount of chlorine needed depends
     mainly on the concentration of organic
     matter in the water and has to be deter-
     mined for each situation. After 30 min-
     utes, the residual concentration of active
     chlorine in the water should be between
     0.2–0.5 mg/l, which can be determined
     using a special test kit. The concentrated
     chlorine solution can be made of clear
     water and chlorine-producing chemi- Figure 6.4 Domestic chlorination using a chlorine
     cals, such as bleaching powder, sodium               tablet
     hypochlorite, or organic chlorine tab-
     lets. It can be prepared at household level, but also in larger quantities and distributed
     among the households. A concentrated chlorine solution should be used within a rela-
     tively short time (defined according to the compound used) before it loses its strength.
     In some cases, chlorine-producing chemicals are added directly added to the water, with-
     out prior dilution. Some chlorine products come in combination with a flocculant to
     help settle suspended material in the water.
     Initial cost: The costs depend on the type of chlorine compound used, the quality of the
     untreated water, etc.
     Yield: About 150–1400 m3 treated water per kg of dry chemical, depending on the water
     quality and the strength of the concentrated chemical.
     Area of use: Wherever drinking-water needs to be disinfected at household level, and
     chlorine is available.
     Trademarks: Chlor-dechlor; Dazzle; Halamid; Halazone; Javelle; Milton; Regina; Zonite
     and many others.
     1
         White (1986)
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
80


            6.4.2 Main O&M activities
                    In some cases, the water will need to be pre-treated (e.g. by filtering), to remove particulate
                    matter. Chlorine-producing chemicals should be stored in a cool, dry place, and care
                    should be taken not to get any of the chemicals in the eyes or on clothes. Disinfection
                    with chlorine can easily be learned and needs to be done regularly. Apart from cleaning
                    and occasional replacement of containers and utensils, no maintenance is needed. If the
                    concentrated chlorine solution or chlorine-producing chemicals are provided by an ex-
                    ternal organization, there will be logistical and administrative problems, and training to
                    deal with. Sometimes communities organize the buying of chemicals themselves, but
                    even then some training at household level will be useful.


6.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Household member. Disinfect the water, clean the containers and utensils.                                           ☺
Local health worker. Prepare concentrated chlorine solution, or provide the chlorine                                
                     chemical itself.

Local shopkeeper.        Sell chlorine chemical.                                                                    ☺
External support.        Determine doses, train water users.                                                    
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Highly qualified.



6.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— treat the water with chlorine.              Concentrated chlorine solution, clear         Water container, measuring cup,
                                              water.                                        stirring rod.

 Weekly
— prepare concentrated chlorine               Hypochlorite, chlorinated lime, etc.,
  solution;                                   clear water.                                  Bottle, spoon, scale.

— clean containers and utensils.              Clean water, soap.                            Brush or cloth.

 Occasionally
— recalculate the proper chlorine             Water sample, test media.                     Test kit.
  dose.



            6.4.5 Potential problems
                         — if the water quality varies over time, the required dose of chlorine has to be recal-
                           culated;
                         — if they are not stored properly, chlorine-producing chemicals lose their strength
                           quickly – even when stored under the best conditions, bleaching powder loses half
                           of its strength in about a year;
                         — chlorine-producing chemicals and test media are often not readily available.
                                                                               6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                              81


 6.5 Storage and sedimentation1
6.5.1 The technology
      The quality of raw water can be improved
      considerably by storage. During storage,
      non-colloidal, suspended particles slowly
      settle to the bottom of a storage tank,
      and solar radiation will kill some of the
      harmful organisms in the water. Schisto-
      soma larvae, for example, will die after
      storage for at least 48 hours. In contrast,
      colloidal particles remain in suspension.
      The smaller the suspended particles, the
      longer the water needs to be retained in Figure 6.5 Storage and sedimentation
      the reservoir. If the suspended matter
      precipitates very slowly, chemicals can be added to induce coagulation and flocculation.
      The reservoir can be constructed in several ways:
            — below ground level, with a lining of plastic sheeting to separate the stored water
              from the ground;
            — with a lining of loam, clay or concrete;
            — entirely from brick or concrete.
      Reservoirs for sedimentation usually have two separate sections. While one is in use, the
      other can be cleaned. They have an intake on one side of the reservoir (or at the bot-
      tom), an outlet on the opposite side just beneath the water level, and a bottom outlet to
      flush the deposited material.
          When the water quantity or quality at the source is temporarily low, a large storage
      reservoir can also provide an alternative temporary source of water.
      Initial cost: Depends on the type of construction.
      Range of depth: Usually, 0.7–2.0 m.
      Treatment time: A few hours to several days.
      Area of use: Wherever raw water contains high concentrations of suspended solids, or
      where the quality or quantity of the water at the source varies considerably.

6.5.2 Main O&M activities
      Usually, water will be let in to the storage reservoir every day or continuously, but when
      the water quality becomes too poor and there is sufficient water stored in the reservoir,
      the water intake may be stopped temporarily. The reservoir will have to be flushed regu-
      larly to remove the deposited silt – the frequency for this will depend on the silt content
      of the water and the reservoir depth. All valves in the system must be opened and closed
      at least once every two months to keep them from becoming stuck. Occasionally, the
      valves may need to be repaired or replaced, and leaks in the reservoir will have to be
      fixed. Apart from some help from the water users to clean the reservoir after it has been
      flushed, the system requires little support from an established organization to maintain
      it.




      1
          Water Research Centre and WHO Regional Office for Europe (1989).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
82


6.5.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                    Roles                                                                             Skills required

Caretaker.                Regulate the water flow, flush the reservoir, perform small repairs.                     
Water committee.          Supervise the caretaker.                                                                 
Water user.               Assist in cleaning the reservoir.                                                        ☺
Local or area mason. Repair leaks in the brickwork or concrete.                                                  
Local or area             Repair the valve.                                                                      
mechanic.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.



6.5.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— regulate the inlet.

 Regularly
— flush deposited silt.                                                                     Broom, spade, bucket.

 Every two months
— open and close the valves.

 Occasionally
— repair the valves;                          Washers, nuts and bolts, spare valve.         Spanners, screwdriver, wrench, pipe
                                                                                            threader, etc.

— repair leaks.                               Plastic, clay, cement, sand, etc.             Spade, hoe, chisel, hammer, bucket,
                                                                                            trowel, etc.



              6.5.5 Potential problems
                          — leaks, which should be repaired immediately;
                          — if the solids in the water do not settle quickly enough, coagulation and flocculation
                            may be needed.


               6.6 Upflow roughing filter1
              6.6.1 The technology
                    Roughing filters are often used to pretreat water by removing suspended solids from the
                    water that could rapidly clog a slow sand filter. Roughing filters can also considerably
                    reduce the number of pathogens in the water, as well as the amount of iron and manga-
                    nese. There are many types of roughing filters with different flow directions (downflow,
                    upflow and horizontal flow filters), and with different types of filter medium (e.g. sand,
                    gravel, coconut husk fibre). Upflow roughing filters are relatively cheap and easier to
                    clean than downflow or horizontal flow filters.
                       An upflow filter box can be made of bricks, concrete or ferrocement. It can have a
                    round or rectangular shape, with vertical or partially inclined walls, and it is usually about
                    1.5 m deep. Water flows in through an underdrain system on the bottom, usually a perfo-

                    1
                        Wolters & Visscher (1989); Galvis et al. (1993).
                                                                                  6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                                83


      rated PVC pipe, which also permits rapid
      abstraction during cleaning when the
      flow direction is reversed (backwashing).
      For backwashing, a special drainage valve
      is installed which can be opened quickly.
          The underdrains are covered with a
      layer of coarse gravel, on top of which
      lie several layers of finer gravel and
      coarse sand. The filter layers are covered
      with a 0.1 m-deep layer of boulders, to
      avoid exposing the outflow directly to
      sunlight; this helps to prevent algal
      growth. The outflow is stored in an out-
      let structure. In some cases, the outflow
      of one roughing filter is fed to another
      roughing filter with finer material for      Figure 6.6 Upflow roughing filter
      further cleaning.
      Initial cost: Reported construction costs are US$ 20–40 per m3 of water per day, for a
      structure designed to be in operation for 24 hours a day (data from Colombia, 1986;
      Wolters & Visscher, 1989).
      Filtration rate: Approximately 0.6 m/h.
      Performance: If raw water with a turbidity below 50 NTU is used as the source for a
      roughing sand filter, the outflow has a turbidity below 12 NTU. Approximately 84–98%
      of suspended solids are removed. Better results are obtained with two or three filters in
      series.
      Use: As a pre-treatment stage prior to slow sand filtering or other purification processes.

6.6.2 Main O&M activities
      The filters should preferably be operated on a continuous basis. Operation consists of
      regulating the water flow and checking the turbidity of the effluent. Flow, turbidity and
      maintenance data are written in a logbook. If the turbidity gets too high, the filter may
      become clogged. In such cases, the filter should be cleaned about once a month, while
      leading the effluent to outlet. The inlet and outlet boxes are then cleaned, and
      backwashing and refilling are done twice. The monthly cleaning is performed by the
      caretaker and takes about half a day. No special assistance from users is required to clean
      the filters. Every two months, all valves should be completely opened and closed, to keep
      them from becoming stuck.
          After a year or more (depending on the turbidity of the raw water), hydraulic clean-
      ing alone is no longer adequate, and the different filter layers have to be removed and
      cleaned, which requires several people. The filter should be cleaned before the turbidity
      of the raw water reaches a maximum (e.g. before the rainy season starts). Occasionally,
      the valves need to be repaired or replaced, and if a steel weir is used this may need to be
      painted or replaced. New caretakers can be trained by experienced technicians.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
84


6.6.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Caretaker.               Regulate the water flow, keep a logbook of repairs etc., clean the                        
                         filters hydraulically, organize manual cleaning.

Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, organize manual cleaning.                                        
Water user or            Assist in manual cleaning.                                                                ☺
paid worker.

Local or area            Repair or replace valves.                                                               
mechanic or
plumber.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.



6.6.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— regulate the water flow;

— make entries into a logbook.                Logbook, pen.

 Weekly
— hydraulically clean the filters.            Raw water.

 Monthly
— stir the top layer of the filter.           Raw water.                                    Rake, hoe.

 Every two months
— open and close all valves.

 Every two years
— manually clean and refill the filter.       Raw water.                                    Spade, bucket, wheelbarrow, sieves,
                                                                                            washbasin.

 Annually
— grease the valves;                          Grease.                                       Grease pot, cloth.

— paint the steel parts.                      Anticorrosive paint.                          Steel brush, paintbrush.

 Occasionally
— repair or replace the valve.                Washers, lids, bolts, nuts, spare valve. Spanners, wrench, screwdriver,
                                                                                       pipe threader, etc.


             6.6.5 Potential problems
                         — high loads of organic and other suspended material in the raw water clog the filter
                           and reduce the hydraulic cleaning capacity;
                         — roughing filters only remove some of the solids and pathogens in the water, and
                           additional treatment is needed.
                                                                                6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                              85


 6.7 Slow sand filtration1
6.7.1 The technology
     The treatment of water by slow sand fil-
     tration combines biological, chemical
     and physical processes when the water
     slowly passes downwards through a bed
     of sand. Fine particles are filtered out,
     and in the sand and on top of the filter
     bed a population of microorganisms
     develops that feed on bacteria, viruses
     and organic matter in the water. The fil-
     ter reservoirs have drains on the bottom
     covered with gravel and sand. Raw water
                                                  Figure 6.7 Slow sand filter
     slowly enters the filter through an inlet,
     and an outlet leads the clean water from the drains to the clean-water mains.
         During operation, the sand filter is covered with a water layer of 0.3–1.0 m. For the
     filter to work well, water must flow continuously at a rate of 0.1–0.3 m/hour. For commu-
     nity use, filter reservoirs can be made of concrete, bricks, ferrocement, etc. At least two
     filters are needed if clean water is to be provided continuously.
         When the quality of the raw water is poor, it is recommended that pretreatment steps
     be added (e.g. upflow roughing filter). Sometimes, the water is chlorinated after filtra-
     tion to prevent recontamination. With good O&M, a slow sand filter produces water
     virtually free of harmful organisms. For the small-scale application of this method, see
     section 6.3 Household slow sand filter.
     Initial cost: Data from rural India in 1983 indicate an initial cost of US$ 60–130 per m2 of
     filter area. In Colombia, the cost was US$ 105–215 per m2 in 1987.
     Yield: 0.1–0.3 m3 m-2 hour-1.
     Area of use: All over the world.
     Manufacturers: Slow sand filters can be built by experienced contractors, or by commu-
     nities with external technical assistance.

6.7.2 Main O&M activities
     For a slow sand filter to be effective, it must be operated and maintained properly. The
     flow of water must be maintained at a rate between 0.1–0.3 m per hour. This provides a
     stable flow of nutrients and oxygen to the microorganisms in the filter and gives them
     time to treat the water. After several weeks to a few months, the population of microor-
     ganisms may get too dense and start to clog the filter. The flow rate of the water into the
     sand filter may then have to be adjusted, or the layer of water above the filter will build
     up and become too high. If flow rates get too low, the filter must be drained and the top
     layer of the sand scraped off, washed, dried in the sun, and stored. After several scrapings,
     the cleaned and dried sand is added back to the filter, together with new sand, to make
     up for losses during washing. Every two months, all the valves must be opened and closed to
     keep them from becoming stuck, and any leaks in the system must be repaired immediately.
        The caretaker of a slow sand filter should keep a logbook with flow rates and O&M
     activities. Slow sand filters can be operated and even monitored by communities, pro-
     vided the caretakers are trained well. It takes a caretaker less than one hour a day to
     check whether the filter is functioning properly and to adjust flow rates, although clean-
     ing the site and other activities may take more time. Several people can clean a filter unit

     1
         Visscher et al. (1987); IRC (1993).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
86


                    in only one day, but it is important that hygienic measures are observed every time some-
                    one enters the filter unit for maintenance or inspection work. If the filter is well-de-
                    signed and constructed, hardly any repairs of the filter tanks and drainage system will be
                    needed, although the valves and metal tubing may need occasional attention. Test kits to
                    monitor water quality are available and they require only basic training to use.
                        A slow sand filter for community use requires considerable organization to be able to
                    provide enough people for scraping and resanding the filter units. A local caretaker will
                    have to be trained, and others may need to be trained to test the water quality and to be
                    able to stand in for the caretaker. Apart from extra sand, some chlorine and test materi-
                    als, very few external inputs are needed. With proper external assistance, water organiza-
                    tions can manage their water treatment independently.

6.7.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Local caretaker.         Regulate flow, keep site clean, lead scraping and re-sanding.                             
Water user or            Assist in scraping and re-sanding of filter units.                                        ☺
paid worker.

Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, monitor water quality, collect fees,                          /
                         organize scraping and re-sanding.

Local plumber.           Repair valves and piping.                                                               
External support.        Train the caretaker, monitor water quality.                                            
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


6.7.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check the inflow;

— regulate the flow;

— keep a logbook;                             Logbook, pen.

— clean the site.                                                                           Broom.

 About every six weeks
— scrape off the sand, wash, dry              Water, disinfectant for tools, boots          Wheelbarrow, hoe, rake, spade,
  and store.                                  for feet.                                     rope, bucket, ladder, planks, broom,
                                                                                            wash basin.

 About every 18 months
— re-sand the filter.                         Recycled and new sand, water,                 Sieve, wheelbarrow, hoe, rake,
                                              disinfectant for tools, boots for feet.       spade, rope, bucket, ladder, planks.

 Occasionally
— repair the valve;                           Washers, spare valve.                         Spanners, screwdriver, wrench

— replace the metal tubing;                   Nipples and accessories, plumbing             Steel saw, wrench, pipe threader,
                                              sealant or Teflon, cement, sand.              hammer, chisel, trowel, bucket.

— disinfect the filter outlets.               Chlorine.                                     Bucket, brush.

 Regularly
— analyse the water quality.                  Water sample, test media.                     Test kit.
                                                                                6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                               87


6.7.5 Potential problems
           — if the flow rates through the filter are too high, water quality drops;
           — excessive turbidity (>30 NTU) in the raw water can cause the filter to clog rapidly,
             in which case a pre-filtration step may be needed;
           — when the water quality is very poor, harmful and bad-tasting products such as am-
             monia may be formed in the filter;
           — it may take some time for people to believe that a green and slimy filter can pro-
             duce safe water;
           — if the water flow is interrupted for more than a few hours, beneficial microorgan-
             isms in the filter may die and the filter action will become impaired;
           — smooth vertical surfaces in the filter can cause short circuits in the water flow and
             result in poor-quality water;
           — in some regions, sand is expensive or difficult to get;
           — slow sand filters require a substantial initial investment, and dedicated O&M;
           — it takes a few days for a filter to “ripen” after re-sanding and in this period the
             water quality is lower.


 6.8 Chlorination in piped systems1
6.8.1 The technology
     Chlorination is a chemical method for
     disinfecting water. The chlorine inacti-
     vates pathogens in the water and pro-
     vides a barrier against recontamination.
     It is normally applied at the last stage of
     a drinking-water treatment process. The
     most frequently used low-cost technol-
     ogy methods are batch chlorination and
     flow chlorination. For batch chlorina-
     tion, a concentrated chlorine solution is
     added to the water in a reservoir, with
     both inlets and outlets closed. The wa-
     ter is stirred and the chlorine is left to
     react for at least 30 minutes. After that,
     the outlets can be opened. When the
     reservoir is empty, the outlets are closed Figure 6.8 Floating bowl chlorinator
     and the reservoir is refilled with a new
     batch of water to be disinfected.
          Flow chlorinators continuously feed small quantities of a weak chlorine solution to a
     flow of fresh water, often at the inlet of a clear-water reservoir. Usually, a small reservoir
     containing the chlorine solution is placed on top of the water reservoir and the solution
     is administered close to the point where fresh water comes in, and turbulence guaran-
     tees good mixing. A special device, such as the floating bowl chlorinator, enables precise
     dosage. Sometimes a special electric pump is used for this purpose.
          Electrical devices that convert a solution of kitchen salt to active chlorine can be
     purchased for on-site chlorine production. Small test kits are also available for monitor-
     ing and for adjusting chlorine doses to the water quality and quantity. Chlorine-produc-
     ing compounds must always be stored and prepared with care.
     Initial cost: A chlorinator and hoses can cost as little as US$ 15, but there will be addi-

     1
         Water Research Centre & WHO Regional Office for Europe (1989).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
88


                    tional costs for the tank, for the concentrated chlorine solution, and for the construction
                    costs of a protective shelter.
                    Yield: Generally, 350–1400 m3 of treated water per kg of a 70% chlorine compound.
                    Area of use: Wherever drinking-water needs to be disinfected and chlorine is available.

             6.8.2 Main O&M activities
                    The flow rate of the raw water must be checked and adjusted if necessary, and the chlo-
                    rine tank must be refilled with a freshly-prepared solution once or twice a week. Opera-
                    tors must be careful to avoid contact with chlorine compounds or solutions, and use
                    protective gloves and utensils to prepare the chlorine solutions. The gloves and utensils
                    will need to be replaced occasionally. In some cases, the amount of chlorine added to the
                    water, together with residual chlorine levels, are recorded in a logbook. Chlorinators
                    must be adjusted and cleaned of chlorine salts regularly, and when the hoses become
                    corroded by chlorine they must be replaced. If a steel chlorine tank is used, it must be
                    painted and checked for corrosion every year, and the shelter for the chlorine tank needs
                    to be maintained. Usually, the water committee appoints a caretaker who is trained for
                    such work. The chlorine compound itself must be obtained from a merchant or the
                    health department, and an adequate supply of chlorine compound must be kept in stock.
                    An external organization, such as a government health or water department, will provide
                    training for caretakers and perform monitoring.


6.8.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                           Roles                                                                      Skills required

Caretaker.                       Refill the chlorine tank and prepare the chlorine solution,                       
                                 clean and adjust the chlorinator, perform small repairs.

Water committee.                 Supervise the caretaker, collect fees.                                            
Local health worker,             Provide or sell chlorine compounds.                                               ☺
shopkeeper or merchant.

External support.                Check residual chlorine in water and adjust doses, train                       
                                 the caretaker.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Highly qualified.



6.8.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Once or twice a week
— refill the chlorine tank.                   Chlorine compound, water.                     Spoon, scale, bucket, stirring rod.

 Regularly
— adjust and clean the chlorinator;           Water.                                        Measuring cup, stopwatch.

— check and adjust chlorine doses.            Test media, water samples.                    Test kit.

 Occasionally
— replace the hoses and chlorinator.          Hose, small tubes (plastic, glass,            Knife, nail.
                                              etc.), plug, bowl.

 Annually
— paint the steel tank.                       Latex paint.                                  Steel brush, paint brush.
                                                                              6. WATER TREATMENT
                                                                                            89


6.8.5 Potential problems
         — chlorination is less effective in alkaline water (pH above 8.0);
         — when the water contains excessive organic matter or suspended material, it will
           need to be pretreated;
         — the cost and availability of chlorine compounds can be serious limitations;
         — chlorination affects the taste of water and for this reason the water may be rejected
           by consumers who have not been informed;
         — on the other hand, users may believe a chlorine taste indicates that the water has
           been disinfected, but water can still taste of chlorine even when not enough has
           been added to purify it.
      Despite these limitations, disinfecting drinking-water by chlorination is one of the most
      effective and least-expensive technologies available and should be encouraged.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
90


           7. Storage and distribution



            7.1 Introduction
                The following storage and distribution systems are described in the Fact Sheets:
                Storage
                   — concrete-lined earthen reservoir;
                   — reinforced concrete reservoir;
                   — elevated steel reservoir;
                   — ferrocement tank.
                Distribution
                   — public standpost;
                   — domestic connection;
                   — small flow meter.
                These lists are not exhaustive, but have been selected as being most relevant to small,
                community water-supply systems. Of the storage options reviewed, the concrete-lined
                earthen reservoir is the only system that is suitable for storing raw water, and the O&M of
                such a system should consider the possibility that a raw water source will be used. A water-
                lifting method to get the raw water to the storage reservoir may be necessary and this
                should also be considered in the O&M implications. In many cases, a concrete-lined
                earthen reservoir can be used instead of open concrete reservoirs.
                     Flow meters are only discussed in general, and no comparison is made between types
                and brands, because this is outside the scope of this manual. However, the decision to
                install flow meters has important operational and organizational implications.

                Material selection
                The type of material chosen for the pipes and accessories will determine the mainte-
                nance activities that will be needed. Both polyvinyl chloride (PVCu) and polyethylene
                (PE) are used in drinking-water networks, but PE is more commonly used for smaller
                diameter pipes and with lower water pressures. It comes in rolls that are 50 m or 100 m
                long and is more flexible than PVCu. PVCu comes as pipes 6 m in length and up to 300
                mm in diameter (sometimes more). Commonly, more accessories are available for PVCu
                than for PE, but PVCu is more easily fractured by poor handling and laying techniques.
                However, when properly installed, PVCu pipes need hardly any maintenance, except for
                controlling leaks.
                   Asbestos cement pipes are made with external diameters from 100 mm to over 1000
                mm. They are not suitable for use with high water pressures, but they are relatively cheap.
                Asbestos cement pipes cannot be installed in aggressive soils, since they are susceptible
                to corrosion. Because of their rigidity, asbestos cement pipes require careful handling
                when they are installed, to avoid damaging them.
                   In areas with high water pressure (above the local standard pressure), pressure-re-
                ducing valves should be considered to reduce the amount of water lost to leakage. For
                water pressures greater than 1.25 Mpa (about 127-m head of water) metal pipes should
                                                                              7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                        91


     be used. Metal pipes should also be used if they are to be laid on the surface and exposed
     to sunlight. The following are some features of metal piping and accessories:
           — metal pipelines are generally sensitive to corrosion;
           — galvanized-iron pipes are supplied in diameters of up to 4 inches (100 mm nomi-
             nal bore), and steel pipes are supplied in larger diameters;
           — ductile iron pipes are similar to steel pipes, but they are more resistant to corro-
             sion;
           — cast iron has good resistance to corrosion and is used for accessories, such as con-
             nectors and valves, but it is hard and breaks more easily than ductile iron.
     Galvanization gives some protection against corrosion, but most metal pipes need to
     have internal and external protection. Examples of internal protective linings are epoxy
     resin and cement mortar. Bituminous lining should be avoided because of possible health
     risks. All internal coatings must be carried out during the manufacturing process, but
     relinining or replacing the piping should be part of O&M activities. External protective
     coating is beneficial when pipes are laid in corrosive soil conditions. Examples of materi-
     als used in external coating include zinc oxide, bitumen paint and polythene sleeving.
     External coating is usually applied during manufacture, but polythene sleeving can be
     applied when laying the pipe.


7.2 Concrete-lined earthen reservoir1
7.2.1 The technology
     Lined earthen reservoirs can be built in
     natural depressions, or constructed by
     excavating and building a dam around
     the reservoir. If possible, the quantities
     of excavation and refill are kept nearly
     identical, to minimize the amount of
     work. The inner and outer walls of such
     a reservoir are always sloped, and inlets
     and outlets are installed during the
     earthwork. The walls and bottom of the
     reservoir must be compacted, especially
     the parts made by refilling. The inside
     of the reservoir is waterproofed by a lin- Figure 7.2 Concrete-lined earthen reservoir
     ing of concrete, which is usually poured
     on-site in large slabs. The slab size is lim-
     ited by the ability of the concrete slab to support its own weight when it is moved into
     place during construction of the reservoir. Once in place, the slabs are connected by a
     sealing of waterproof material. More recently, reservoirs have been constructed using a
     single slab of concrete, using ferrocement technology. Linings can also be made of clay,
     loam or plastic.
     Volume of reservoir: From a few cubic metres to many thousands.
     Uses: De-silting and storing raw water.




     1
         The IFFIC/AIT has good information on ferrocement and related technologies. Contact FFIC/AIT, P.O.
         Box 2754, Bangkok 10501, Thailand.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
92


              7.2.2 Main O&M activities
                    Operation of a reservoir consists of opening and closing the inlet and outlet valves and
                    sluices, according to water need in the system and water quality at the inlet. The valves
                    and sluices should be opened and closed at least every two months to prevent them
                    sticking. At least once a year, the reservoir should be emptied of sediment and cleaned,
                    and the lining inspected and disinfected with chlorine. Cracks or other damage to the
                    lining should be repaired. Usually, the cleaning of a reservoir is a communal activity,
                    which can be organized by a water committee that coordinates all the activities related to
                    the system. An individual living near the reservoir can be assigned the job of caretaker.


7.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Water user.              Assist in major maintenance and repair activities.                                        ☺
Caretaker.               Open and close the valves, check the water quality at intake,                             
                         keep a logbook of O&M activities.

Water committee.         Coordinate activities.                                                                    
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.



7.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check the water quality at intake;

— operate the valves and sluices.

 Occasionally
— repair the valve;                           Washer, spare valve.                          Wrench, spanner, screwdriver.

— repair the lining.                          Clay, loam, plastic sheeting, cement,         Wheelbarrow, spade, hoe, chisel,
                                              sand, gravel, etc.                            hammer, trowel, bucket, etc.

 Annually
— inspect the lining.



              7.2.5 Potential problems
                         — the reservoir may rapidly fill with silt;
                         — cracks may appear in the reservoir lining, which will need to be repaired;
                         — in regions with prolonged water shortages, the size of the reservoir needed to
                           meet water demand may be too big to be financed by the community.
                                                                      7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                             93


 7.3 Reinforced concrete reservoir1
7.3.1 The technology
     Reinforced concrete reservoirs are used
     to store clean water for release on de-
     mand. They are usually made of concrete
     reinforced with steel bars or steel mesh,
     although some low-cost construction
     techniques use bamboo or other mate-
     rials to reinforce the concrete. Reservoirs
     may also be made of masonry, or
     ferrocement. Chemical additives are of-
     ten mixed with the concrete to make it
     more impermeable to water. Reinforced
     concrete reservoirs are built at the site
     on a solid foundation. If the base is not
     solid enough, another site should be Figure 7.3 Reinforced concrete reservoir
     chosen, or arrangements made to stabi-
     lize the construction.
         To protect the water from contamination, the reservoir is covered with a roof, usually
     made of reinforced concrete, but other materials can be used. In the top of the tank an
     aeration pipe with a screen allows fresh air to circulate in the tank, but keeps rodents and
     insects out. A manhole in the roof allows access to the tank for cleaning and repairs.
     Water flows into the reservoir through an inlet pipe above the water level in the reservoir.
     This prevents back-flow and allows the water to be heard entering the tank. At this point,
     a chlorine solution is often added for disinfection. Outlets are built a little above the
     floor of the reservoir, which has a slope pitched down towards one point with a washout
     pipe for flushing.
     Range of depth: Usually between 1.5–3.0 m.
     Expected useful lifetime: 30 years.
     Use: For reservoirs larger than about 3 m3 where sand, cement, gravel and reinforcing
     materials are available.

7.3.2 Main O&M activities
     Operation consists of opening and closing the valves, and managing a chlorinator, if
     provided. If the reservoir does not deliver directly to a tap, water distribution is usually
     carried out by a caretaker.
         A well-designed and well-built reservoir needs very little maintenance. The surround-
     ings must be kept clean on a regular basis; every two months the valves must be closed
     and opened to prevent them from sticking, and the screens must be checked. Occasion-
     ally, a screen or tap may need to be repaired. Once a year, or sooner if contamination is
     suspected, the reservoir must be drained, de-silted, cleaned with a brush and disinfected
     with chlorine. Any leaks or cracks in the concrete have to be repaired as soon as possible.
         If needed, a caretaker can be appointed to regulate the inflow and outflow. A con-
     crete reservoir has few other organizational requirements.




     1
         Jordan (1984).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
94


7.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

Water user.              Assist in reservoir cleaning.                                                             ☺
Caretaker.               Regulate water inflow and outflow, organize cleaning, and warn                            
                         if repairs are needed.

Water committee.         Supervise the caretaker, organize repairs.                                                
Mason.                   Perform repairs.                                                                        
External support.        Check water quality, motivate and guide local organization.                            
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



7.3.4 O&M technical
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— clean the surrounding area.                                                               Broom, machete, hoe, etc.

 At least monthly
— open and close the valves.

 Occasionally
— repair the valve;                           Washer, spare valve.                          Wrench, spanner, screwdriver.

— repair the screen;                          Plastic or copper screen, wire.               Pliers, wrench, tin cutter.

— repair the concrete lining.                 Cement, sand, gravel, additives.              Trowel, spade, bucket, wheelbarrow,
                                                                                            ladder, rope.

 Annually
— clean and disinfect the reservoir.          Chlorine.                                     Brush, broom, bucket, ladder.



              7.3.5 Potential problems
                         — cracks and leaks form owing to a poor foundation, design or construction;
                         — exposed metallic components become corroded;
                         — the water becomes contaminated owing to a poorly-covered manhole or broken
                           screens;
                         — reinforced concrete is expensive;
                         — reinforced concrete is also heavy, and the soil beneath the reservoir may settle if
                           the foundation is inadequate.


               7.4 Elevated steel reservoir
              7.4.1 The technology
                    An elevated steel reservoir stores clean water in a steel tank on a raised stand or tower.
                    The elevation of the tank provides the water pressure to all points in the pressure zone of
                    the distribution system. Tanks may be cylindrical, rectangular or any other convenient
                    shape. For family use, the tank can be made of an old oil drum (duly coated), and the
                    tower of bamboo. For communal needs, elevated steel tanks are often constructed from
                    factory-made galvanized steel elements bolted or welded together. However, even with
                    galvanization, steel tanks are generally more sensitive to corrosion than concrete reser-
                                                                                         7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                95


                    voirs. On the other hand, steel tanks can
                    be built faster and the cost of transport-
                    ing the material is generally lower, espe-
                    cially when concrete aggregates are not
                    locally produced. Several pipes are con-
                    nected to the tank, including ones for
                    inlet, outlet, overflow and washout, and
                    a screened vent hole or pipe maintains
                    atmospheric pressure in the tank. There
                    is also an entryway in the cover of the
                    reservoir to allow the reservoir to be in-
                    spected. The entryway is normally kept
                    closed with a lid. If an electric pump is
                    used to pump water into the reservoir,
                    the water level in the reservoir can be
                    regulated by sensor electrodes in the Figure 7.4 Elevated steel reservoir
                    tank. Alternatively, a float valve may be
                    used to cut off the inflow when the maxi-
                    mum level has been reached.
                        The tanks may be placed on steel, wooden or reinforced-concrete towers, and special
                    attention must be given to the foundation structure. Big elevated steel tanks are typically
                    used by major water users, such as agricultural enterprises and communities.
                    Initial cost: Prices vary considerably between countries and tank quality. In 1991, in Tan-
                    zania, a circular above-ground tank made of galvanized iron cost US$ 125 for a 1 m3 tank
                    (US$ 125 per m3) and US$ 550 for a 10 m3 tank (US$ 55 per m3) (Mayo, 1991).

             7.4.2 Main O&M activities
                    Operation consists of opening and closing the valves, and managing a chlorinator if one
                    is used. This is usually done by a caretaker who lives nearby.
                        For maintenance, the valves must be opened and closed every two months to prevent
                    them from sticking. Some valves need lubricating. The screens must also be checked,
                    and occasionally a screen or valve may need to be repaired. The inside of the reservoir
                    should be cleaned at least every six months and disinfected using a chlorine solution.
                    The tank and the stand should be painted once a year – epoxy-paint coatings should
                    need little maintenance. Any leaks should be repaired immediately.


7.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                 Roles                                                                  Skills required

Caretaker.             Check controlling devices, organize cleaning, and warn if                    
                       repairs are needed.

Water committee.       Supervise the caretaker.                                                     
Welder.                Repair steel parts of the tank.                                             
Plumber.               Repair the valves and pipes.                                                
External support.      Check the water quality, motivate and guide local organization.           
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
96


7.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                   Materials and spare parts           Tools and equipment

 At least monthly
— open and close the valves;

 Occasionally
— repair faulty valves;                  Washer, spare valve.                Wrench, spanner, screwdriver.

— repair the screen.                     Plastic or copper screen, wire.     Pliers, wrench, tin cutter.

 Binnually
— clean and disinfect the reservoir.     Chlorine.                           Brush, broom, bucket, ladder.

 Annually
— paint the reservoir.                   Anticorrosive paint.                Paintbrush, ladder.



             7.4.5 Potential problems
                          — the reservoir may become corroded and leak;
                          — steel reservoirs normally require cathodic protection;
                          — steel reservoirs need relatively more maintenance than those made of concrete,
                            ferrocement or even wood.


              7.5 Ferrocement tank1
             7.5.1 The technology
                    Ferrocement water tanks are made of
                    steel mesh and wire, covered on the in-
                    side and outside with a thin layer of ce-
                    ment-and-sand mortar. The walls may be
                    as thin as 2.5 cm. The tanks can be used
                    for individual households or for whole
                    communities, and they provide a rela-
                    tively inexpensive and easy-to-maintain
                    storage method. To avoid bending forces
                    in the material, most ferrocement tanks
                    have curved walls, in the form of a cylin-
                    der, a globe or an egg. Compared to con-
                    crete reservoirs, ferrocement tanks are
                    relatively light and flexible. To protect
                    the water from contamination, the tank
                    is covered with a lid or a roof that can be Figure 7.5 Ferrocement tank
                    made of various materials, but is usually
                    ferrocement. In this case, an aeration
                    pipe with a screen is needed to allow fresh air to circulate in the tank, while keeping out
                    rodents and insects. A manhole in the roof gives access to the tank for cleaning and
                    repairs. Water flows into the reservoir through an inlet pipe, which is normally above the
                    water level.
                        Often, a chlorine solution is added to the stored water for disinfection. Outlets are
                    built a little above the floor of the reservoir, which slopes down towards a washout pipe
                    for flushing into a drain. The site is fenced, to keep out cattle that can damage the thin
                    walls of the reservoir.
                    1
                        Hasse (1989).
                                                                                              7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                      97


                    Initial cost: In Kenya in 1993, a 20 m3 tank with a roof cost US$ 420 (US$ 21 per m3;
                    Cumberlege & Kiongo, 1994). In the South Pacific Islands in 1994, 5.5–12 m3 tanks cost
                    an average of US$ 50 per m3 (Skoda & Reynolds, 1994).
                    Range of volume: From 1 m3 to over 80 m3.
                    Range of depth: Usually, between 1.5–3.0 m.
                    Area of use: Anywhere that inexpensive storage is needed.
                    Manufacturers: Ferrocement tanks are built on-site by many organizations, craftsmen
                    and building contractors, and can even be factory made.

              7.5.2 Main O&M activities
                    Operation consists of opening and closing the valves, and managing a chlorinator, if
                    provided. A ferrocement tank that is well-designed and well-built needs very little main-
                    tenance. The surroundings, including the drain, must be kept clean on a regular basis;
                    every two months, the valves must be opened and closed to prevent them sticking, and
                    the screens must be checked. Occasionally the fence, a screen or tap may need repair.
                    Every six months, or when contamination is suspected, the reservoir must be drained,
                    de-silted, cleaned with a brush, and disinfected with chlorine. Any leaks have to be re-
                    paired immediately. Repair involves some special techniques using wire and mesh, ce-
                    ment, sand and water, but they are easy to learn.
                        Ferrocement tanks can be used at the family or communal level. If used by communi-
                    ties, a caretaker can be appointed, preferably someone who lives close to the reservoir.


7.5.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                 Roles                                                                        Skills required

Caretaker.             Clean the reservoir and its surroundings, open and close taps and valves.           
Water committee.       Supervise the caretaker, organize repairs.                                          
Mason.                 Repair the ferrocement.                                                           
External support.      Check water quality, motivate and guide local organization.                      
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



7.5.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                     Materials and spare parts                 Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— clean the surroundings.                                                            Broom, machete, hoe, etc.

 At least monthly
— open and close the valves.

 Occasionally
— repair the valve;                        Washer, spare valve.                      Wrench, spanner, screwdriver.

— repair the screen;                       Plastic or copper screen, wire.           Pliers, wrench, tin cutter.

— repair the ferrocement.                  Wire, mesh, cement, sand, additives.      Chisel, hammer, steel brush, trowel,
                                                                                     spade, bucket, pliers.

 Biannually
— clean and disinfect the reservoir.       Chlorine.                                 Brush, broom, bucket.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
98


          7.5.5 Potential problems
                      — cracks and leaks appear, owing to poor design and construction;
                      — the water becomes contaminated, owing to a poorly-fitted cover, unsafe form of
                        water abstraction, or broken screens;
                      — exposed metallic parts become corroded;
                      — ferrocement is less suitable for rectangular structures;
                      — in regions without ferrocement technology, it may take time for the community to
                        accept the different concept of construction – generally, people do not trust the
                        thin walls and think they include too much steel.


            7.6 Public standpost1
          7.6.1 The technology
                A public standpost or tapstand distrib-
                utes water from one or more taps to
                many users. Because it is used by many
                people it is often not looked after, and
                the design and construction must be
                sturdier than used in similar domestic
                connections. A standpost includes a serv-
                ice connection to the supplying water
                pipeline, a supporting column or wall
                made of wood, brick, dry stone masonry,
                concrete, etc, and one or more 0.5 inch
                (1.25 cm) taps that protrude far enough
                from the column or wall to make it easy
                to fill the water containers. The taps can
                be a globe or a self-closing type.
                    The residual pressure head of the Figure 7.6 Public standpost
                water at the standpost should be 10–30
                m, and some standposts have a regulat-
                ing valve in the connection to the mains that can be set and locked to limit the maximum
                flow. A water meter may also be included (see Fact Sheet 7.8 Domestic water meters). A solid
                stone or concrete apron under the taps, and a drainage system, lead spilled water away
                and prevent muddy pools from forming. A fence may be needed to keep cattle away. The
                location and design of a public standpost should be determined in close cooperation
                with future users.

          7.6.2 Main O&M activities
                Water users clean and fill their containers at the tap (bathing and washing clothes are
                not usually permitted at the standpost itself). At all times, pools of water must be pre-
                vented. The tap site should be cleaned daily and the drain inspected. The drain must be
                cleaned at least once a month. Occasionally, a rubber washer or other tap part may have
                to be replaced, and the fence may need to be repaired. If the standpost structure be-
                comes cracked, it must be repaired, and when wood rots it must be treated or replaced.
                Occasionally, the piping may leak and need to be replaced. For maintenance of a water
                meter, see Fact Sheet 7.8 Domestic water meters.
                   A caretaker or tap committee may be appointed to keep the tap functioning and the
                surroundings clean, and to regulate the amount of water used. Committee members may

                1
                    Jordan (1984).
                                                                                                     7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                               99


                    also collect the fees for water use. Sometimes, water vendors are allowed to fill their tanks
                    at public standposts at special rates, for resale to people living farther away.


7.6.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Keep the site clean.                                                                      ☺
Caretaker or             Clean the site, perform small repairs, collect fees.                                      
tap committee.

Communal water           Organize major repairs, collect fees.                                                     
committee.

Mason                    Repair the standpost and apron                                                          
Plumber                  Repair the piping and taps                                                              
External support         Monitor hygiene, train committee members                                               
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


7.6.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— test the tap;                                                                            Jar, bucket, can, etc.

— clean the site;                                                                          Broom or brush.

— inspect and clean the drain.                                                             Hoe, spade.

 Occasionally
— repair or replace the tap valve;           Rubber or leather washer, gland seal,         Spanners, screwdriver, pipe wrench.
                                             Teflon tape, flax, spare valve.

— repair the fence;                          Wood, steel wire, nails.                      Machete, pliers, hammer.

— repair the tapstand, apron or drain; Wood, nails, cement, sand, water, etc. Hammer, saw, trowel, bucket, etc.

— repair the piping.                         Pipe nipples, connectors, elbows, oil,        Pipe wrench, pipe cutter, saw, file,
                                             Teflon tape, flax or plumbing putty.          pipe threader.



             7.6.5 Potential problems
                         — if social problems remain unsolved, or if the standpost is not conveniently located,
                           this can lead to the tapstand not being maintained properly, or even vandalised;
                         — often, the taps are not closed after use, or even left open on purpose to irrigate a
                           nearby plot, which can lead to water accumulation at the tapstand site;
                         — standposts at the end of a piped system often have insufficient water pressure;
                         — special attention should be given to how water is handled after collection at the
                           standpost, to prevent the water from subsequently becoming contaminated.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
100


               7.7 Domestic connection1
              7.7.1 The technology
                    When enough water and funds are avail-
                    able, the best option is to connect every
                    house or yard to a piped water system.
                    This is more convenient for water users,
                    generally increases water use, and im-
                    proves hygiene. A service pipe, usually
                    made of PE or PVCu, leads from the dis-
                    tribution network to the house or yard.
                    The domestic connection can consist of
                    a single tap on a post, or a system of pipes
                    and taps in a house. A gate valve and a
                    water meter are normally installed at the
                    entry to the premises. Drainage must
                    also be provided. The residual head of
                    water (pressure) at household connec-
                    tions should be 10–30 m.
                                                                           Figure 7.7 Household connection
                    Initial cost: Depends on factors, such as
                    whether the domestic connection extends into a house, the type of piping material used,
                    whether PE or PVCu pipes are available locally, etc.
                    Users per connection: Usually, one family.
                    Yield: Depends on the pressure of the public main, diameter of the household connec-
                    tion, and demand.

             7.7.2 Main O&M activities
                    Taps are used throughout the day. They should not be left open or leak, otherwise mud
                    and pools will form, which must be avoided. The tap and site must be cleaned regularly
                    and the drain inspected. In case of leakage, a rubber washer or other part of the tap may
                    need to be replaced. Any structure on the tap site and drainage system may need to be
                    repaired. Occasionally, the service pipe, fittings and accessories may leak and need to be
                    repaired or replaced. O&M of the domestic connection are carried out by the household
                    itself, or by a community water committee. When water is scarce, or if the pressure is too
                    low in part of the network, the water committee has to motivate users to limit their water
                    use, or create conditions that will induce users to reduce water consumption (e.g. a tariff
                    structure that discourages excessive water use).


7.7.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                    Roles                                                                             Skills required

User.                     Keep the site clean.                                                                     ☺
Mason.                    Repair the standpost and apron.                                                        
Plumber.                  Repair the piping and taps.                                                            
Water committee.          Monitor hygiene habits, train household members.                                         
External support.         Check the water quality, train members of the water committee.                        
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


                    1
                        Jordan (1984).
                                                                                               7. STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                        101


7.7.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                Tools and equipment

 Daily
— check that the tap closes properly                                                  Jar, bucket, can, etc.
  and does not leak;

— clean the site;                                                                     Broom or brush.

— inspect and clean the drain.                                                        Hoe, spade.

 Occasionally
— repair or replace the valve;               Rubber or leather washer, gland seal,    Spanners, screwdriver, pipe wrench.
                                             Teflon tape, flax, spare valve.

— repair the valve stand, apron              Wood, nails, cement, sand, water, etc. Hammer, saw, trowel, bucket, etc.
  or drain;

— repair the piping.                         Pipe nipples, connectors, elbows, oil,   Pipe wrench, pipe cutter, saw, file,
                                             Teflon tape, flax or plumbing putty.     pipe threader.


           7.7.5 Potential problems
                          — leaks may not be repaired and water will be wasted;
                          — if too much water is lost from the system, or if water becomes scarce, it may be
                            difficult to ensure that everyone has water, which could lead to the inequitable
                            distribution of water;
                          — initial costs for household connections are higher, and it is complicated to main-
                            tain the distribution network.


             7.8 Domestic water meter1
           7.8.1 The technology
                    Water meters, in combination with pub-
                    lic standposts or domestic connections,
                    provide the means to charge fees accord-
                    ing to the volume of water delivered, and
                    to regulate water use via tariffs. Water
                    meters consist of a device to measure
                    flow, and a protective housing with an
                    inlet and an outlet. A strainer over the
                    inlet keeps larger particles out of the
                    system. There are many types of water
                    meter, but for ordinary domestic or pub-
                    lic standpipe use, turbine meters are
                    most common. The vane wheel and the Figure 7.8 Caption? Water meter
                    counting device of a water meter can be
                    coupled magnetically or directly. Magnetic coupling has the advantage that the counting
                    device can be completely sealed and no water, silt or algae will get in. A shut-off valve is
                    normally installed on both sides of the meter to allow for servicing.
                    Initial cost: From US$ 10–25 or more, not including installation costs.
                    Flow range: 0.005–1.5 litres/s for domestic use.
                    Area of use: Piped public water distribution systems.
                    Manufacturers: Biesinger; Bosco; Kent; Schlumberger; Spanner Pollux; Valmet, etc.
                    1
                        van Wijk-Sijbesma (1987); Jeffcoate & Pond (1989).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
102


            7.8.2 Main O&M activities
                  On a regular basis (e.g. every month), the water meter should be read by an appointed
                  person who writes down the new meter count in a book. The difference between two
                  readings of the same meter is the amount of water used, and consumers will be billed
                  accordingly. The reader must check that the meter is in good condition and has not
                  been tampered with. Meter counts can also serve to regulate consumption, by raising
                  tariffs as more water is used. The fee for a meter reader increases the operational costs of
                  the system, but the costs may be partly offset because the domestic water meters (and
                  distribution network water meters) help to control leaks and the wasting of water.
                      When the water is free of silt, a good-quality water meter needs very little mainte-
                  nance; however, a specialized workshop is needed for repairs. It is advisable to clean the
                  strainer at least once a year, depending on the meter and water quality. When the meter
                  no longer functions well, it should be replaced or recalibrated. Water meters lose accu-
                  racy with time, and about every five years a meter should be cleaned and recalibrated
                  regardless of its status (defined according to the nature of the water and the meter type).
                  To recalibrate it, the meter should be sent to a specialized workshop for inspection,
                  repair and calibration.
                      A water meter is often owned by the water users themselves, who guarantee that it is
                  treated well. Even when the external parts of a water meter belong to a water committee
                  or project, the users may still be responsible for the condition of the parts. A water com-
                  mittee will need to keep a stock of water meters for replacing defective ones. To reduce
                  costs, the number of different models should be kept to a minimum.

7.8.3 O&M requirements
Activity                                Materials and spare parts             Tools and equipment

 Monthly
— read the meter;                       Notebook, pencil.

— check the condition of the meter.

 Annually
— clean the strainer.                                                         Spanners, screwdriver.

 Occasionally
— replace the meter;                    Spare meter, Teflon tape or flax.     Spanners, pipe wrench.

— check the accuracy of the meter;      Water.                                Spanners, piper wrench, calibrated
                                                                              meter, nipples.

— repair the meter and calibrate it.    Depends on the model of water meter. Meter workshop with calibration rig.



            7.8.4 Potential problems
                        — the meter may become inaccurate, tampered with, stolen, damaged by cattle, or
                          damaged by grit in the water;
                        — grit or soft debris may clog the strainer;
                        — the initial cost and operational costs of a water meter are relatively high;
                        — domestic water meters should not be used with water with a high silt load;
                        — some meter counters are more difficult to read than others, which can be a prob-
                          lem for both user and meter reader, and may require good skills on the part of the
                          reader.
                                                                                   8. SANITATION
                                                                                           103


8. Sanitation



8.1 Introduction
    Sanitation includes solid waste disposal (including medical wastes), wastewater disposal,
    wastewater reuse, human excreta disposal, and drainage of surface (rain) water. This
    section deals mainly with systems for human excreta disposal, in line with the scope of
    this document. A distinction is made between systems that do not need water (dry sys-
    tems) and systems that need water to function (waterborne systems). The following sys-
    tems are described in the Fact Sheets, and they cover a wide range of technologies for
    disposing of human excreta, from simple improved traditional latrines, to complex sew-
    erage systems:
       —   basic improved traditional latrine;
       —   ventilated improved pit latrine;
       —   double-vault compost latrine;
       —   bored hole latrine;
       —   pour-flush latrine with leaching pit;
       —   septic tank and aqua privy;
       —   vacuum tanker;
       —   manual latrine-pit emptying technology (MAPET);
       —   soakaway;
       —   drainage field;
       —   small-bore or settled sewerage.
    Sludge and effluent treatment technologies, such as stabilization ponds and aeration
    ponds, are not included as they are beyond the scope of this publication. Bucket collec-
    tion of excreta also has not been included, because the collection, transportation and
    disposal of excreta by this method are usually uncontrolled and unhygienic, and pose
    health risks both to the collectors and to the community.
       Safe human excreta disposal is crucial for preventing the spread of infectious dis-
    eases. Communities and planners need to realize that safe human excreta disposal brings
    about huge health benefits. The control and management of wastes are an essential part
    of O&M. In rural areas, the users themselves are largely involved in preventive mainte-
    nance activities for wastewater and solid waste disposal. Awareness campaigns, and in-
    volving the community in sanitation problems, can both help to change behaviour in
    communities, and improve the O&M of basic sanitation systems.
       Factors to consider when choosing a sanitation system for excreta disposal include:
       — the initial cost of the technology and the costs of O&M;
       — demand and use (what is the population density, and will the system be used in
         homes, schools, market places?);
       — climate (temperature, humidity and rainfall);
       — soil and topography (infiltration properties of the soil, and what is the direction of
         the groundwater flow?);
       — water availability (for waterborne systems);
       — cultural beliefs, values and practices around sanitation;
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
104


                    — the availability of technical skills (are there local craftsmen or technicians with the
                      necessary skills to install and/or carry out O&M of the system?);
                    — agriculture (what are the characteristics of the local agriculture and home gar-
                      dening).

          8.1.1 Waterborne systems for excreta disposal
                Wastewater coming from kitchens and bathrooms is termed “sullage” (or grey water).
                “Sewage” (or black water), includes sullage and human excreta from waterborne facili-
                ties. Sewage is called “sludge” when it becomes a thick mud. In areas of high population
                density, wastewater can pose a serious public-health threat, such as when it surfaces dur-
                ing flooding, or when there is no proper drainage. Not only would it cause foul odours,
                but it would also be a source of pathogens. If sewer pipes break, or if wastewater stagnates
                because the soil absorbs poorly, the wastewater could seep into the drinking-water supply
                and contaminate it.
                    The problems associated with waterborne waste disposal are: the high water consump-
                tion; the sewer system often becomes blocked; and the high capital and O&M costs.
                    Some O&M considerations associated with four options for dealing with a full pit
                latrine are shown in Table 8.1. Disposal options are considered in Table 8.2.

          8.1.2 Dry sanitation systems for excreta disposal
                One dry sanitation method is to dehydrate the human faeces. Special collection devices,
                which divert urine into a separate container for storage, allow faeces to be dehydrated
                fairly easily. The urine can be used directly as a fertilizer, since urine contains most of the
                nutrients and the risks from pathogens are relatively low. The classic example of an eco-
                logical sanitation system based on dehydration is the Vietnamese double-vault toilet. In
                Northern Vietnam, a common practice was to fertilize rice fields with fresh excreta. To
                combat this hazardous practice, in 1956, the health authorities started campaigns to con-
                struct double-vault dry latrines, and followed this up with health education programmes.
                It is now widely used in Vietnam, and to some extent in Central America, Mexico and
                Sweden.
                    A second dry sanitation method is to compost the human faeces. This involves a bio-
                logical process in which bacteria and worms break down the organic material under
                controlled conditions (e.g. temperature, moisture, and airflow) and make humus. If the
                composting conditions are properly controlled, the humus is free of human pathogens
                and is an excellent soil conditioner. A drawback of this method is that in many develop-
                ing countries it is likely that the composting conditions would not be controlled prop-
                erly, which could lead to humus contaminated with pathogens.
                    The health aspects of dry sanitation systems, either by dehydration or composting,
                are not well understood yet and these technologies cannot be recommended without a
                clear understanding of how they function, especially where O&M are unlikely to be ad-
                equate. In addition, the most unfamiliar aspect of dry sanitation is that it requires some
                handling of human faeces at household level, which for many is still taboo and may
                involve health risks. Nevertheless, if communities wish to consider ecological sanitation
                technologies, they should be made aware of the importance of maintaining the technol-
                ogy in good working order, and of the consequences should the technology malfunc-
                tion.
                    The most common problems with dry sanitation are:
                    ■   The faeces become wet (>25% humidity), and therefore smells persist, flies breed,
                        and pathogens survive. This could be caused by leaking urine conduits or blocked
                        vent pipes, or poor maintenance of the system. Absorbents like ash, lime, sawdust,
                        husks, crushed dry leaves, peat moss and dry soil are used to absorb excess mois-
                                                                                          8. SANITATION
                                                                                                  105


                ture, as well as to reduce smells and make the pile less compact. Ventilation also
                helps to dry the contents, and also removes smells, allows flies to escape and, in the
                case of composting toilets, provides oxygen for the decomposition process.
            ■   Cleaning material is used inappropriately after defecation.


 8.2 Improved traditional pit latrine1
8.2.1 The technology
      Traditional latrines usually consist of a
      single pit covered by a slab with a drop
      hole and a superstructure. The slab may
      be made of wood (sometimes covered
      with mud) or reinforced concrete. The
      superstructure provides shelter and pri-
      vacy for the user. Basic improvements
      include:
            — a hygienic self-draining floor
              made of smooth, durable material
              and with raised foot rests;
            — a tight-fitting lid that covers the
              drop hole, to reduce smells and
              keep insects out of the pit;
            — a floor raised at least 0.15 m above
              ground level, to prevent flooding;
            — an adequately lined pit, to prevent Figure 8.2 Traditional pit latrine
              the pit collapsing (e.g. when the
              soil is unstable);
            — an adequate foundation, to prevent damage of the slab and superstructure.
      The pits can be square, rectangular or circular, usually 1.0–1.5 m wide. The depth (usu-
      ally 3–5 m) depends on the soil and groundwater conditions. In unstable soil, or when
      the pit is going to be emptied, some kind of lining (e.g. old oil drums or stones) is
      needed. A foundation may be needed to support the slab and superstructure.
          As a general rule, pits should be at least 15–30 m from sources of drinking-water. The
      actual distance will depend on local hydrogeological conditions, such as soil characteris-
      tics, and groundwater depth and flow. When groundwater levels are high, or when the
      soil is too hard to dig, the pit latrine may have to be raised above ground level.
      Initial cost: Initial costs of construction should include materials (50–80%), transporta-
      tion (0–25%) and local labour (15–35%). Actual costs will depend on: the pit volume;
      the quality of the pit lining, slab and superstructure; whether materials are available
      locally; and the local costs of materials and labour.
      Area of use: Rural and low-income urban areas. Mainly used as a household facility and
      for rural institutions.

8.2.2 Main O&M activities
      Operation of pit latrines is quite simple, and consists of regularly cleaning the slab with
      water (and disinfectant) to remove any excreta and urine. The tight-fitting lid over the
      drop hole should be replaced after use, to ensure insect control and to reduce odours. In

      1
          Sources: Wegelin-Schuringa (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
106


      TABLE 8.1 WHAT TO DO WITH A FULL PIT LATRINE?a
1. Stop using the                   2. Empty latrine                  3. Empty by simple                 4. Empty using a
   latrine                             by hand                           mechanical means                   tanker

Back-fill the top of the            Dig out the contents of the       Use a simple device (e.g.  Use a motorized tanker with
latrine with soil, and build        latrine using a spade and         MAPET) with a manpowered a vacuum pump.
another. If possible, build         bucket.                           suction pump, that is easy
twin-pit latrines, which are                                          to manoeuvre in narrow
shallow and “reusable”.                                               streets and courtyards.

Limitation(s)                       Limitation(s)                     Limitation(s)                      Limitation(s)
• Many families or schools          • This method involves            • The informal sector does         • Large vehicles have
  do not have sufficient              very high health risks.           not always have the                problems manoeuvring in
  space to build another            • If the pit is not “lined”         necessary equipment.               narrow streets and
  latrine, and they continue          with walls of stones,           • The suction pump may               courtyards.
  to use the one they have.           bricks or concrete, it            not be powerful enough           • Motorized tankers are
  This creates very high              might collapse when it is         to raise sludge from a             expensive to buy.
  health risks.                       emptied.                          deep latrine.                    • Users pay more for the
                                    • Sludge could be                 • If the pit is not “lined”          service.
                                      deposited in an unsafe            with walls of stones,
                                      place.                            bricks or concrete, it
                                                                        could collapse when it is
                                                                        emptied.
                                                                      • Sludge could be
                                                                        deposited in an unsafe
                                                                        place.
a
    Adapted from Pickford & Shaw (1997). A full pit latrine is defined as one that is filled to within one-half metre of ground level.



      TABLE 8.2 WHAT TO DO WITH SLUDGE FROM PIT LATRINES AND SEPTIC TANKS?a
Possible solutions                  Method
Disposal into water.                Sludge can be disposed into water, if it is left untouched for about 2 years. However,
                                    untreated sludge poses very high risks to health and the environment.

Disposal onto land.                 Sludge can be disposed onto land, if it is left untouched for about 2 years. However,
                                    untreated sludge poses very high risks to health and the environment.
Composting.                         Mix the sludge with 2–3 times its volume of vegetable waste. Turn it several times in the
                                    first few weeks, then heap it into a pile and leave it for several weeks. After this, it can
                                    be used as fertilizer.
Household bio-gas units.            Add latrine or septic tank sludge to bio-gas units (mainly used with animal waste).
Drying beds.                        Sludge flows into a shallow tank that allows drainage, and is covered with a layer of
                                    sand. The sludge is then lifted after about one week.
Solid-liquid separation.            Solids are separated from the liquid wastes by sedimentation or rough filtering. The
                                    solids are then lifted.
Anaerobic digestion.                Sludge from the latrine is added to wastewater sludge, and separated by sedimentation
                                    at wastewater treatment plants.

Extended aeration.                  The sludge is aerated. O&M is expensive.
Sewerage system.                    Sludge is discharged into wastewater treatment plants. The rate of discharge is impor-
                                    tant for this method to work properly.

Waste stabilization ponds.          The sludge is treated in waste stabilization ponds, either with municipal wastewater, or
                                    separately.
a
    Adapted from Pickford & Shaw (1997).
                                                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                                               107


                    addition, appropriate anal cleansing materials should be available in or near the latrine.
                    Ash or sawdust can be sprinkled into the pit to reduce the smell and insect breeding.
                    Nonbiodegradable materials, such as stones, glass, plastic, rags, etc., should not be thrown
                    into the pit, as they reduce the effective volume of the pit and hinder mechanical empty-
                    ing.
                        Monthly maintenance includes checking the slab for cracks, checking the superstruc-
                    ture for structural damage, ensuring that the lid remains tight-fitting, and ensuring that
                    the surface water continues to drain away from the latrine. Before the pit latrine be-
                    comes full, a decision must be made as to the location of a new pit. Time must be allowed
                    for digging the new pit and transferring the slab and superstructure to it. The contents
                    of the old pit must then be covered with at least 0.5 m of top soil, to hygienically seal it
                    off. When latrines are used by a single household, O&M tasks are implemented by the
                    household or by hired labour. If several households use the latrine, arrangements for
                    rotating the cleaning tasks have to be made, to avoid social conflict. Pits can only be
                    emptied manually if their contents have been left to decompose for about two years.
                    Otherwise, when a pit is full, it must be emptied mechanically, or a new pit has to be dug.


8.2.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Use the latrine, close the lid, keep the latrine clean, inspect the                       ☺
                         latrine and perform small repairs on it.

User or local labour. Dig a new pit; shift, or transfer the slab and superstructure.                               ☺
Local mason.             Build and repair the latrine.                                                           
Health department.       Monitor latrines and hygienic behaviour of users, and train users                      
                         in hygienic behaviour.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



8.2.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                       Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the drop hole, seat and shelter; Water, soap.                                      Brush.

— clean the handle of the lid.               Water, soap.                                  Brush.

 Monthly
— inspect the floor slab and lid.

 Occasionally
— repair the slab, lid, seat or              Cement, sand, water, nails, local             Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  superstructure.                            building materials.                           hammer, knife.

 Depending on size and number of users
— close the pit with soil, dig a new   Soil, local building materials and nails            Shovels, picks, bucket, hammer,
  pit, shift cover and superstructure; (if available).                                     knife, saw, etc.

— empty the pit (if applicable).              By hand: water.                              By hand: shovel, bucket.
                                             By mechanical means: water, spare             By mechanical means: equipment
                                             parts for machinery.                          for emptying the pit.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
108


          8.2.5 Potential problems
                      — the slab floor cracks, because it was constructed with unsuitable materials or be-
                        cause the concrete was not cured properly, and the cracks provide a habitat for
                        parasites;
                      — the latrine lid gets damaged or falls into the pit;
                      — in hard soils it may be impossible to dig a proper pit;
                      — pits often fill up too quickly in soils with low infiltration and leaching capacity;
                      — when children are afraid of using a latrine, special children’s latrines may be con-
                        structed with a smaller drop hole.


           8.3 Ventilated improved pit latrine1
          8.3.1 Brief description of the technology
                Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) latrines
                are designed to reduce two problems fre-
                quently encountered with traditional la-
                trine systems: bad odours and insect
                proliferation. A VIP latrine differs from
                a traditional latrine by having a vent pipe
                that is covered with a fly screen. Wind
                blowing across the top of the vent pipe
                creates a flow of air which draws out
                odours from the pit. As a result, fresh
                air is drawn into the pit through the drop
                hole and the superstructure is kept free
                of smells. The vent pipe also has an im-
                portant role to play in fly control. Flies
                are attracted by light and if the latrine is
                suitably dark inside, they will fly up the
                vent pipe towards the outside light,
                where they are trapped by the fly screen Figure 8.3 Ventilated improved pit latrine
                and die of dehydration. Female flies,
                searching for an egg-laying site, are attracted by the odours from the vent pipe, but are
                prevented from flying down the pipe by the fly screen at its top. VIP latrines can also be
                constructed with a double pit. The latrine has two shallow pits, each with its own vent
                pipe, but only one superstructure.
                    The cover slab has two drop holes, one over each pit, but only one pit is used at a
                time. When one becomes full, the drop hole is covered and the second pit is used. After
                about two years, the contents of the first pit can be removed safely and used as soil condi-
                tioner. The first pit can be used again when the second pit has filled up. This alternating
                cycle can be repeated indefinitely.
                Initial cost: A single-pit VIP family latrine costs US$ 70–400, while the double-pit VIP
                version costs US$ 200–600. These costs include materials (60–80%), transportation (5–
                30%) and local labour (10–25%). Actual costs will depend on the pit volume; the quality
                of the lining, slab and superstructure; whether materials are available locally; and local
                prices.
                Area of use: Household and community level in rural and periurban areas.



                1
                    Sources: Smet et al. (1988); Wegelin-Schuringa (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
                                                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                                               109


            8.3.2 Main O&M activities
                    Operation of pit latrines is quite simple and consists of regularly cleaning the slab with
                    water and disinfectant, to remove any excreta and urine. The door must always be closed
                    so that the superstructure remains dark inside. The drop hole should never be covered
                    as this would impede the airflow. Appropriate anal cleaning materials should be avail-
                    able for the latrine users. Nonbiodegradable materials, such as stones, glass, plastic, rags,
                    etc. should not be thrown into the pit, as they reduce the effective volume of the pit and
                    hinder mechanical emptying.
                        Every month, the floor slab should be checked for cracks, and the vent pipe and fly
                    screen inspected for corrosion or damage, and repaired if necessary. The superstructure
                    may also need to be repaired (especially light leaks). Rainwater should drain away from
                    the latrine. When the contents of the pit are 0.5 m below the slab, a new pit should be
                    dug and the old one covered with soil. Alternatively, the pit could be emptied mechani-
                    cally.
                        Where latrines are used by a single household, O&M tasks are implemented by the
                    household, or by hired labour. If several households use the latrine, arrangements have
                    to be made to rotate the cleaning tasks, to avoid social conflicts. If pits are not emptied
                    mechanically, they can be emptied manually, but only after their contents have been left
                    to decompose for about two years. Otherwise, new pits must be dug when a pit is full. If
                    double-pit latrines are used, the users need to understand the concept of the system fully
                    to operate it properly. User education has to cover topics such as the reasons for using
                    only one pit until the time for switch-over; the use of excreta as manure; and the need to
                    leave the full pit for about two years before emptying. The users must also know how to
                    switch pits and how to empty them, even if they do not do these tasks themselves. If these
                    tasks are carried out by the private (informal) sector, the workers have to be educated
                    about the system and its operational requirements.


8.3.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Keep the latrine clean, inspect and perform small repairs, empty the                      ☺
                         full pit and switch to the new one, dig a new pit and replace the latrine.

Local unskilled          Dig pits, transfer structures, empty full pits in double-pit systems,                   
labour (sweepers/        perform small repairs, solve small problems.
scavengers).

Local mason.             Build, repair and transfer latrines.                                                    
Health department.       Monitor latrines and the hygienic behaviour of users, educate users                    
                         in good hygiene practices.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
110


8.3.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                    Materials and spare parts              Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the drop hole, seat and           Water, soap.                           Brush, bucket.
  superstructure.

 Monthly
— inspect the floor slab, vent pipe
  and fly screen.

 Every 1–6 months
— clean the fly screen and the inside     Water.                                 A twig or long flexible brush.
  of the vent.

 Occasionally
— repair the slab, seat, vent pipe, fly   Cement, sand, water, nails, local      Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  screen or superstructure.               building materials.                    hammer, knife.

 Depending on size and number of users
— dig a new pit and transfer latrine      Sand, possibly cement, bricks, nails   Shovels, picks, buckets, hammer,
  slab and superstructure (if             and other local building materials.    saw, etc.
  applicable);

— switch to the new pit when the
  old pit is full;                                                               Shovels, buckets, wheelbarrow, etc.

— empty the old pit (if applicable).      By hand: water.                        By hand: shovel, bucket.
                                          By mechanical means: water and         By mechanical means: equipment
                                          spare parts for the machinery.         for emptying the pit.



           8.3.5 Potential problems
                      — the quality of the floor slab is poor because inappropriate materials were used in
                        its construction, or because the concrete was not properly cured;
                      — inferior quality fly screens are easily damaged by the effects of solar radiation and
                        foul gases;
                      — badly-sited latrines can get flooded or undermined;
                      — children may be afraid to use the latrine because of the dark, or out of fear of
                        falling into the pit;
                      — if the superstructure allows too much light to come in, flies will be attracted to the
                        light coming through the squat hole and may fly out into the superstructure, which
                        can jeopardize the whole VIP concept;
                      — in latrines that rely on solar radiation for the air flow in the vent pipe, rather than
                        on wind, odour problems may occur during the night and early morning hours;
                      — leakage between pits occurs because the dividing wall is not impermeable or the
                        soil is too permeable;
                      — in hard soils it may be impossible to dig a proper pit;
                      — pits should preferably not reach the groundwater level and must be 15–30 m from
                        ground and surface water sources;
                      — VIP latrines do not prevent mosquitoes from breeding in the pits;
                      — VIP latrines cost more to construct than simple pit latrines and the community
                        may not be able to bear the higher costs;
                      — cultural resistance against handling human waste may prevent households from
                        emptying their own pit latrines, but usually local labour can be hired to do the job.
                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                111


 8.4 Double-vault compost latrine1
8.4.1 The technology
      The double-vault compost latrine con-
      sists of two vaults (watertight chambers)
      to collect the faeces. Urine is collected
      separately, because the contents of the
      vault should be kept relatively dry. Ini-
      tially, a layer of absorbent organic mate-
      rial is put in the vault, and after each use
      the faeces are covered with ash (or saw-
      dust, shredded leaves or vegetable mat-
      ter) to reduce smells and soak up
      excessive moisture. The organic material
      also ensures that sufficient nitrogen is
      retained in the compost to make it good
      fertilizer. When the first vault is three-
      quarters full, it is completely filled with
      dry, powdered earth and sealed, and the
      contents allowed to decompose anaero-
      bically. The second vault is then used and Figure 8.4 Double-vault compost latrine
      when it is three-quarters full, the first
      vault can be emptied (even by hand) and the contents used as fertilizer. The vaults should
      be large enough to keep the faeces long enough for them to become pathogen-free (at
      least two years). A superstructure is built over both vaults, and each has a squat hole that
      can be sealed off. The latrine can be built anywhere, since the vaults are watertight and
      there is no risk of polluting the surroundings. Where there is rock or a high water-table,
      the vaults can be placed above ground. A ventilation pipe keeps the aerobic system ac-
      tive, which is essential for composting. Double-vault latrines have been successfully used
      in Vietnam and Central America (El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua).

8.4.2 Main O&M activities
      Initially, some absorbent organic material is put into the empty vault (layer of ashes or
      lime) to ensure that liquids are absorbed and to prevent the faeces from sticking to the
      floor. After each use, or whenever available, wood ash and organic material are added.
      When urine is collected separately it is often diluted with 3–6 parts of water and used as
      a fertilizer. Water used for cleaning should not be allowed to go into the latrine as it will
      make the contents too wet. When the vault is three-quarters full, the contents are lev-
      elled with a stick, the vault is filled to the top with dry powdered earth, and the squat hole
      is sealed. The second vault is then emptied with a spade and bucket, after which the vault
      it is ready for use. The contents dug out of the second vault can be safely used as ferti-
      lizer. To help keep down the number of flies and other insects, insect-repelling plants
      (such as citronella) could be grown around the latrine.
           Potential users of a vault latrine technology should be consulted extensively, to find
      out if the system is culturally acceptable, and if they are motivated and capable of operat-
      ing and maintaining the system properly. The project agency will need to provide sus-
      tained support to ensure that users understand the system and operate it properly.




      1
          Winblad & Kilama (1985); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
112


8.4.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User/household.          Use latrine, remove urine, help keep latrine clean, inspect and                           ☺
                         perform small repairs, help to empty the pit and switch over to
                         the new pit.

Local mason.             Build and repair latrines.                                                              
Local pit emptier.       Empty the pit and switch over to the new pit, check the system                          
                         and perform small repairs.

External support         Investigate whether the double-vault technology is appropriate,                        
organization.            monitor users’ O&M and hygienic behaviour and provide feedback,
                         train users and local artisans.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


8.4.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the toilet and superstructure, Water, lime, ashes.                                  Brush, water container.
  empty the urine collection pot.

 After each defecation or whenever available
— add ashes or other organic                  Wood ashes and organic material.              Pot to contain the material, small
  material.                                                                                 shovel.

 Monthly
— inspect the floor, superstructure
  and vaults.

 When necessary
— repair the floor, superstructure or         Cement, sand, water, nails, local             Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  vaults;                                     building materials.                           hammer, knife.

— use humus as fertilizer.                    Humus.                                        Shovel, bucket, wheelbarrow.

 Depending on size and number of users
— close the full vault after levelling        Water, absorbent organic material.            Shovel and bucket.
  and adding soil;

— empty the other vault, open its squat
  hole and add 10 cm of absorbent
  organic material before using;

— store the humus, or use it directly.


            8.4.5 Potential problems
                         — users do not understand how to operate the system properly and leave the latrine
                           contents too wet, which makes the vault malodorous and difficult to empty;
                         — users are too eager to use the latrine contents as fertilizer and do not allow suffi-
                           cient time for the compost to become pathogen-free;
                         — the double-vault compost latrine can only be used where people are motivated to
                           use human excreta as a fertilizer;
                         — the double-vault compost latrine is not appropriate where water is used for anal
                           cleansing.
                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                113


 8.5 Bored-hole latrine1
8.5.1 The technology
      Mainly used in emergency situations. A
      bored-hole latrine is similar to a basic im-
      proved traditional latrine, but the pit is
      a hole bored with a soil auger (either me-
      chanically or manually). The borehole
      diameter is at least 0.4 m, and the pit is
      4–10 m deep. The relatively small diam-
      eter permits a simpler, smaller, lighter
      and cheaper floor slab and foundation,
      but limits the storage capacity. A bored-
      hole latrine is suitable for stable, perme-
      able soils, free of stones, and where the
      groundwater is deep beneath the sur-
      face. The top 0.5 m of the pit is often
      lined to provide support for the slab, but
      the pit is not lined all the way to the bot-
      tom.
                                                 Figure 8.5 Bored-hole latrine
      Initial cost: There are no hard data on
      prices. Costs would depend on the soil
      and other local conditions, labour costs, the materials used in building the latrine, and
      the efficiency of organization.
      Area of use: Emergency areas with permeable stable soils, low groundwater, and no stones.

8.5.2 Main O&M activities
      Operation of the latrines is quite simple and consists of regularly cleaning the slab with
      water and disinfectant. The tight-fitting lid should be replaced after use, to control in-
      sects and reduce smell. In addition, appropriate anal cleansing materials should be avail-
      able in or near the latrine. Ash or sawdust can be sprinkled in the pit to reduce odours
      and insect breeding. Nonbiodegradable materials, such as stones, glass, plastic, rags, etc.,
      should not be thrown in the pit as they reduce the effective volume of the pit and hinder
      mechanical emptying. Monthly maintenance includes checking the slab for cracks, check-
      ing the superstructure for structural damage, ensuring that the lid remains tight-fitting,
      and ensuring that the surface water continues to drain away from the latrine. Before the
      latrine becomes full, a decision must be made as to the location of a new pit. Time must
      be allowed for digging the new pit and transferring the slab and superstructure to it. The
      contents of the old pit must then be covered with at least 0.5 m of top soil to hygienically
      seal it off.
          In emergencies, sanitation programmes tend to be more top-down oriented, and us-
      ers are instructed on how to build their latrines, or the latrines are built for them. In
      most emergency situations, people have ample time and opportunity and are very moti-
      vated to be involved, but strict hygiene control is essential. Often, several families use the
      same latrine, and a caretaker or responsible committee should be appointed to organize
      cleaning and maintenance and to motivate proper use.




      1
          Wegelin-Schuringa (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
114


8.5.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Use latrine, close lid, keep latrine clean.                                               ☺
Caretaker or latrine     Clean latrine, motivate proper use, perform small repairs.                                
committee.

Health department.       Monitor latrines and hygiene behaviour of users, train users in                        
                         hygienic practices.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Basic skills.  Highly qualified.


8.5.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

    Daily
— clean the drop hole, and                    Water, soap.                                  Brush.
  superstructure.

    Monthly
— inspect the floor slab and lid.

    Occasionally
— repair the slab, lid or                     Cement, sand, water, nails, local             Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  superstructure.                             building materials.                           hammer, knife.



              8.5.5 Potential problems
                         — the small diameter of the hole increases the chance of blockage;
                         — the sides of the hole become soiled near the top, leading to fly infestation;
                         — the pit cannot be bored, because the soil is too hard, or too stony, etc., in which
                           case a dug latrine may be more appropriate;
                         — as bored holes are relatively deep there is a risk of groundwater contamination.


               8.6 Pour-flush latrine1
              8.6.1 The technology
                     Pour-flush leaching pit latrines overcome the problems of flies, mosquitoes and odour by
                     having a pan with a water seal (a U-shaped conduit partly filled with water) in the defeca-
                     tion hole. After using the latrine, it is flushed by pouring water in the pan. The latrine
                     pits are usually lined to strengthen the walls, and the soil should be adequately perme-
                     able for infiltration. The concrete floor slab with the pan is either on top of the leaching
                     pit (direct system), or a short distance from one pit (single offset) or two pits (double
                     offset). In offset systems, a short length of PVC tubing slopes down from the U-trap to the
                     pit, or in case of a double-pit system, to a diversion box which diverts the flush into one of
                     the two pits. The double offset system enables the two pits to be used alternately. When
                     the first pit is full, it should be left for at least 12–18 months, to allow time for the patho-
                     gens to be destroyed. After this time, the contents of the first pit can be safely removed
                     even by hand and used as organic fertilizer. The first pit is then ready to be used when
                     the second pit fills up. Double-offset pits are usually smaller than single pits because they
                     need to last for only 12–18 months. Pour-flush latrines are most suitable where people
1
    Winblad & Kilama (1985); Wegelin-Schuringa (1991, 1993); Bakhteari & Wegelin-Schuringa (1992); Franceys, Pickford & Reed
    (1992); van de Korput & Langendijk (1993).
                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                115


      use water for anal cleansing and squat
      to defecate, but they are also popular in
      countries where other cleansing materi-
      als are common. Pour-flush latrines may
      be upgraded to a septic tank with a drain-
      age field or soakaway, or may be con-
      nected to a small-bore sewerage system.
      Initial cost: A single-pit system costs US$
      30–100, and a double-pit system US$ 75–
      212. The prices include costs for labour
      and materials, and for a brick lining and
      a concrete platform (the superstructure
      was not included in most cases). Organi-
      zational costs are also not included. The
      lowest prices were in Asia, the highest in
      Africa, and those in South America were
      between the two.
      Area of use: Rural or periurban areas
      where sufficient water is available and the
      soil is permeable.                            Figure 8.6 Pour-flush latrine
      Flushing: About 2–5 litres per flush,
      mainly depending on the pan design and the distance to the pit.

8.6.2 Main O&M activities
      Before use, the pan is wetted with a little water to prevent faeces sticking to the pan. After
      use, the pan is flushed with a few litres of water. If water is scarce, water already used for
      laundry, bathing, etc. may be used. No material that could obstruct the U-trap should be
      thrown into the pan. The floor, squatting pan or seat, door handles and other parts of
      the superstructure should be cleaned daily with brush, soap and water. Wastewater from
      bathing or washing clothes should not be drained into the pit (except when used for
      flushing), but disposed of elsewhere. Monthly, the pan and U-trap should be checked for
      cracks, and the diversion box for blockage. If the excreta does not flush quickly, the PVC
      pipes or diversion box may become choked and they must be unblocked immediately
      using scoops and long sticks.
          When full, single pits should be abandoned and covered with at least 0.5 m of soil,
      and a new pit dug. If they are not to be abandoned, they should be emptied by mechani-
      cal means. A pit can only be emptied manually if the excreta have been left to decom-
      pose for at least 12–18 months. In this time, the excreta will have decomposed into
      harmless humus, which makes a good fertilizer. In a double-pit system, users should regu-
      larly monitor the level of the pit contents. If one pit is almost full, the second pit should
      be emptied. Again, this can safely be done by hand, but only if the pit to be emptied has
      been properly closed for at least 12–18 months. The pipe leading to the full pit should
      then be sealed and the flow diverted to the emptied pit.
          If latrines are used by a single household, O&M tasks are carried out by the house-
      hold itself, or by hired labour. If several households use the latrine, arrangements should
      be made to rotate cleaning tasks among the households. The users need to understand
      the concept of the system fully to be able to operate it properly. User education must
      include the reasons for using one pit at a time, the need to leave a full pit for about two
      years before emptying, and the use of excreta as manure. The users also need to know
      how to switch from one pit to another, and how to empty a pit , even if they do not
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
116


                     perform these tasks themselves. If these tasks are carried out by the private (often infor-
                     mal) sector, the labourers should also be educated in the concept of the system and its
                     O&M requirements.


8.6.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                              Skills required

User.                    Use the latrine, flush it, keep it clean, and inspect it and perform                      ☺
                         small repairs.

Sanitation worker.       Use the latrine, flush it, keep it clean, and inspect it and perform                    
                         small repairs.

Local mason.             Build and repair latrines.                                                              
Health department.       Monitor latrines and the hygienic behaviour of users, train users                      
                         in hygienic behaviour.
☺ Simple (often requires gender-specific awareness-raising, and training activities to change behaviour and build capacity);
 Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



8.6.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts                     Tools and equipment

 Daily
— clean the squatting pan or seat             Water, soap.                                  Brush, water container.
  and shelter.

 Monthly
— inspect the floor, squatting pan or
  seat, and U-trap for cracks;

— inspect the diversion box for
  blockage.

 Occasionally
— unblock the U-trap, PVC pipes or            Water.                                        Flexible stick or other flexible tools.
  diversion box;

— repair the squatting pan or seat,           Cement, sand, water, nails, local             Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  U-trap or shelter.                          building materials.                           hammer, knife.

 Depending on size and users
— close a full pit with soil and dig a        Soil, several local building materials,       Shovels, picks, bucket, hammer,
  new pit (in the case of a single-pit        and nails.                                    knife, saw, etc.
  system);

— or, empty the pit;                          By hand: water.                               By hand: shovel, bucket.
                                              By mechanical means: water, spare             By mechanical means: pit-emptying
                                              parts for machinery.                          equipment.

— divert excreta flush to the other           Water, sand, cement, bricks, clay etc.        Shovel, bucket.
  pit (in the case of a double pit).



            8.6.5 Potential problems
                         — the U-trap becomes blocked because of bad design or improper use;
                         — the U-trap is damaged because the unblocking was not done correctly (sometimes
                           U-traps are broken on purpose to prevent blockage);
                                                                                       8. SANITATION
                                                                                                117


           — diversion boxes or PVC pipes become blocked;
           — excreta in double pits may not decompose completely, because the pits are too
             close to each other without an effective seal between them and liquids percolate
             from one pit to the other;
           — full-flush pans are sometimes used when pour-flush pans are not available, but
             they require more water (7–12 litres per flush), which may be a problem if water is
             limited;
           — leaching pits only function in permeable soils;
           — latrines must be 15–30 m from water sources;
           — pour-flush latrines should only be used in areas with adequate water for flushing;
           — pour-flush latrines are not suitable if it is common practice to use bulky materials,
             such as corncobs or stones, for anal cleansing, because they cannot be flushed
             through the U-trap;
           — an offset system requires more water for flushing than a direct pit system;


8.7 Septic tank and aqua privy1
8.7.1 The technology
     Septic tanks and aqua privies have a wa-
     ter-tight settling tank with one or two
     compartments. Waste is flushed into the
     tank by water from a pipe that is con-
     nected to the toilet. If the septic tank is
     under the latrine, the excreta drop di-
     rectly into the tank through a pipe sub-
     merged in the liquid layer (aqua privy).
     If the tank is away from the latrine (sep-
     tic tank), the toilet usually has a U-trap.
     Neither system disposes of wastes: they
     only help to separate the solid matter
     from the liquid. Some of the solids float
     on the surface, where they are known as Figure 8.7 Septic tank
     scum, while others sink to the bottom
     where they are broken down by bacteria to form a deposit called sludge. The liquid
     effluent flowing out of the tank is as dangerous to health as raw sewage and should be
     disposed of, normally by soaking it into the ground through a soakaway, or by connect-
     ing the tank to sewer systems. The accumulated sludge in the tank must be removed
     regularly, usually once every 1–5 years, depending on the size of the tank, number of
     users, and kind of use. If sullage is also collected in the tank, the capacity of both the tank
     and the liquid effluent disposal system will need to be larger. If the soil has a low perme-
     ability, or if the water table is high, it may be necessary to connect the tank to a sewer
     system, if available.
         Every tank must have a ventilation system to allow methane and malodorous gases to
     escape. The gases are generated by bacteria during sewage decomposition, and methane
     in particular is highly flammable and potentially explosive if confined in the tank. Septic
     tanks are more expensive than other on-site sanitation systems and require higher amounts
     of water. Aqua privies are slightly less expensive and need less water for flushing.
     Initial cost: US$ 90–375 (including labour and materials).
     Area of use: In rural or periurban areas where water is available.
     Water needed per flush: 2–5 litres, if a pour-flush pan or aqua privy is used.
     1
         Kaplan (1991); Wegelin-Schuringa (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
118


             8.7.2 Main O&M activities
                      Regular cleaning of the toilet with normal amounts of soap is unlikely to be harmful, but
                      large amounts of detergents or chemicals may disturb the biochemical processes in the
                      tank. In aqua privies the amount of liquid in the tank should be kept high enough to
                      keep the bottom of the drop pipe at least 75 mm below the liquid level. A bucket of water
                      should be poured down the drop pipe daily to maintain the water seal, and to clear scum
                      from the bottom of the drop pipe, in which flies may breed. Adding some sludge to a new
                      tank will ensure the presence of microorganisms and enhance the anaerobic digestion
                      of the excreta. Routine inspection is necessary to check whether desludging is needed
                      and to ensure that there are no blockages at the inlet or outlet. The tank should be
                      emptied when solids occupy between one-half and two-thirds of the total depth between
                      the water level and the bottom of the tank. Organizational aspects involve providing
                      reliable services for emptying the tanks, ensuring that skilled contractors are available
                      for construction and repairs, and controlling sludge disposal.


8.7.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                   Roles                                                                       Skills required

User.                    Flush the toilet, keep it clean, inspect vents, control contents of                
                         the tank, contact municipality or other organization for emptying
                         when necessary, and record dates tank was emptied.

Sanitation service.      Empty the tank, control tank and vents, repair if needed.                        
Agency.                  Monitor the performance of the tank and the teams that empty it,                
                         train the teams.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


8.7.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                      Materials and spare parts                 Tools andequipment

 Daily
— clean the squatting pan or seat           Water.                                    Brush, water container.
  and shelter.

 Monthly
— inspect the floor, squatting pan or
  seat, and U-trap.

 Regularly
— ensure that the entry pipe is still       Water.                                    Stick.
  submerged (for aqua privies).

 Occasionally
— unblock the U-trap;                       Water.                                    Flexible brush or other flexible
                                                                                      material.

— repair the squatting pan or seat,         Cement, sand, water, nails, local         Bucket or bowl, trowel, saw,
  U-trap or shelter.                        building materials.                       hammer, knife.

 Annually
— control the vents.                        Rope or wire, screen materials,           Scissors or wire-cutting tool, pliers,
                                            pipe parts.                               saw.

 Every one to five years
— empty the tank.                           Water, fuel, lubricants, etc.             Vacuum tanker (large or mini), or
                                                                                      MAPET equipment.
                                                                                      8. SANITATION
                                                                                              119


8.7.5 Potential problems
           — many problems arise because inadequate consideration is given to liquid effluent
             disposal;
           — large excreta flows entering the tank may disturb solids that have already settled,
             and temporarily increase the concentration of suspended solids in the effluent;
           — if the water seal is not maintained in an aqua privy, the tanks will leak and cause
             insect and odour problems;
           — this system is not suitable for areas where water is scarce, where there are insuffi-
             cient financial resources to construct the system, or where safe tank emptying can-
             not be carried out or afforded;
           — if there is not enough space for soakaways or drainage fields, small-bore sewers
             should be installed;
           — aqua privies only function properly when they are well designed, constructed and
             operated;
           — septic tank additives (such as yeast, bacteria and enzymes), which are often sold
             for “digesting scum and sludge” and for “avoiding expensive pumping”, are not
             effective.


 8.8 Vacuum tanker1
8.8.1 The technology
     A vacuum tanker is a motor vehicle,
     equipped with a vacuum pump and tank,
     for emptying or desludging pit latrines,
     septic tanks or sewers, and for hauling
     sludge to a disposal station. Conven-
     tional vacuum tankers (built on a regu-
     lar 10-ton truck chassis) have a hauling
     capacity of 4–6 m3 of sludge, and mini
     tankers (on a small chassis) less than 2
     m3.
         All vacuum tanker systems use a
     pump to create a vacuum in the tank and
     suction hose. The vacuum then lifts the
     sludge into the tanker. If the bottom lay- Figure 8.8 Vacuum tanker
     ers of sludge are compacted, they can
     be broken up with a long spade, or jetted with a water hose, before being pumped out.
     Water hoses (with their own water tanks) are often fitted to the tankers. Some tankers
     have high-powered vacuum pumps and an air stream into the suction hose that acts as a
     transport medium for the sludge (“air drag” or “plug and drag” techniques). These tank-
     ers can deal with heavy sludge in pit latrines (especially at the bottom where solids have
     settled out and organic material has broken down). A small amount of sludge should
     always be left in the pit to ensure that decomposition continues rapidly. Vacuum tankers
     can be emptied by pressure discharge or by tipping the tank.
     Initial cost: the cost of a vacuum tanker can vary enormously and depends on the manu-
     facturer, the condition of the equipment, the country of use, etc. Prices can vary from
     US$ 20 000–100 000 or more.
     Area of use: Urban or periurban areas with roads (conventional system), or with reason-
     able access (for mini tankers).

     1
         Boesch & Schertenleib (1985).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
120


            8.8.2 Main O&M activities
                   Daily checks before work:
                      — the oil levels in the vacuum pump, oil-cooling tank, hydraulic tank and tanker
                          engine;
                      — the tanker fuel level;
                      — the water levels in the tanker engine, the windscreen water bottle, the wash tank,
                          and the water tank for the vacuum pump;
                      — are all the necessary materials present;
                      — the cooling radiator for the hydraulic oil and pump oil;
                      — is the rear door closed and secured.
                   Daily operation after work:
                      — drain the sludge and oil separators.
                   Weekly checks:
                     — tyre pressures, lights, indicators, horns;
                     — valves that prevent the tank from being overfilled;
                     — contacts between gaskets and seats, and performance steel balls;
                     — leaks in the hydraulic system (tighten couplings), and power take-off shafts (de-
                        pending on type).
                   Two-yearly check:
                     — vacuum pump bearings after 3000 hours or two years.
                   Chassis and engine:
                     — carry out regular maintenance according to the service manual, including chang-
                         ing the engine oil, oil filter and fuel filter, and greasing all points;
                     — change the hydraulic oil, hydraulic filter, and cooling oil;
                     — clean the cooling-oil filter after one year, or sooner if required.
                   The vacuum truck service and its O&M are usually organized and executed by a profes-
                   sional organization, normally under the responsibility of the municipality. User fees for
                   the service are usually set officially (and often heavily subsidized), either by the organiza-
                   tion or the government. There is very little involvement of the households being served.
                   Management and supervision of the services are often ineffective. In many areas, for
                   example, there are not enough vacuum tankers, which results in poor service.


8.8.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                 Roles                                                               Skills required

Truck driver.          Driving the truck, simple checks and maintenance of the truck.            
Crew member.           Some maintenance activities, operating the vacuum pump and                
                       desludging.

Mechanic.              Major maintenance and repairs.                                           
Government or         Organizing the service, ensuring that the sludge is disposed of         
private organization. hygienically.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.
                                                                                                             8. SANITATION
                                                                                                                      121


8.8.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                   Materials and spare parts                   Tools and equipment

 Daily, before work
— check oil levels, water levels, and    Oil, water, oil filters and other simple    Simple tool set for truck
  cooling radiator for the hydraulic     spare parts for the truck.                  maintenance.
  oil and pump oil.

 Daily, after work
— drain the sludge and oil separators.                                               Simple tool set for truck
                                                                                     maintenance, bucket.

 Daily or more frequently
— fill in forms, carry out               Paper.                                      Pen.
  administrative tasks;

— empty the tank.

 Weekly
— weekly checks.                         Oil, water, grease, oil filters and other   Simple tool set for truck
                                         simple spare parts for the truck.           maintenance.

 Every 1–2 weeks (depending on tanker type)
— superstructure: clean the vacuum Water, soap.                                      Brush, bucket.
  pump, remove and clean washwater
  filter.

 After one year or when required
— change the hydraulic oil, hydraulic Oil, filters, etc.                             Simple tool set for truck
  filter, and cooling oil, and clean the                                             maintenance.
  cooling oil filter.

 According to manual
— service truck chassis and engine;      Standard and specialized spare parts        Simple mechanics’ workshop.
                                         for trucks.

— grease the points, clean and           Grease.                                     Simple tool set for truck
  grease the safety valves.                                                          maintenance.

 Occasionally
— repair the superstructure;             Standard and specialized spare parts        Mechanical workshop tools.
                                         for superstructure.

— check vacuum pump bearings.            Grease, water.                              Mechanical workshop tools.



           8.8.5 Potential problems
                       — usual vehicle problems;
                       — the main problems are not primarily due to technical failures, but more to the
                         lack of preventive maintenance, not replacing spare parts, and to the bad state of
                         the roads;
                       — the final disposal of sludge is often not supervised adequately;
                       — tankers are not suitable for narrow streets, steep slopes or wherever large vehicles
                         cannot reach the tank or pit;
                       — many tankers cannot handle the heavy sludge often found in dry latrines.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
122


           8.9 Manual pit emptying technology (MAPET)1
          8.9.1 The technology
                The Manual Pit Emptying Technology
                (MAPET) uses manually operated equip-
                ment to empty the latrine pit. Its main
                components are a piston handpump and
                a 200-litre vacuum tank, both mounted
                on pushcarts, and connected by a 3/4-
                inch (2-cm) hosepipe. A 4-inch (10-cm)
                hosepipe is used to drain the sludge
                from the pit. When the handpump
                wheel is rotated air is sucked out of the
                vacuum tank, which sucks sludge from
                the pit through the 4-inch hosepipe and
                into the tank. The effective pumping
                head is 3 m, depending on the viscosity
                of the sludge. The sludge is usually bur- Figure 8.9 MAPET system
                ied in a hole close to the pit, or taken to
                a nearby disposal point (e.g. a disposal field, or sludge transfer station). The equipment
                is small and hand-operated, and is therefore particularly suitable for high-density settle-
                ments with narrow streets, where conventional vacuum tankers have no access. The maxi-
                mum width of the MAPET, for example, is 0.8 m. Motor-driven vacuum tankers built on
                small tractors are available, and they use the same principle as the MAPET.
                Initial cost: US$ 3000 in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in 1992 dollars (Muller & Rijnsburger,
                1994). The price included the costs of procuring all the parts and materials locally: gas,
                welding rods, paint, transportation, and labour for assembly.
                Area of use: In unplanned and low-income urban areas, especially where access for
                motor vehicles is poor and where double-pit systems cannot be applied.
                Cost of operation: In 1992, US$ 2.50 per tank load of 200 litres in Dar es Salaam, Tanza-
                nia (Muller & Rijnsburger, 1994).

          8.9.2 Main O&M activities
                The emptying job starts with contacting the customer, negotiating the price, picking up
                the MAPET equipment from its parking place and taking it to the customer’s house
                (which may take from 30–60 minutes). A hole is dug for sludge disposal and the latrine
                sludge is prepared for pumping. This preparation entails mixing the sludge with water
                (to make it more liquid) and paraffin (to reduce the smell). After connecting the
                hosepipes, the sludge can be pumped. Depending on the viscosity of the sludge and the
                pumping head, it can take 5–20 minutes to fill up one 200-litre tank with sludge. When a
                tank is full, the hosepipes are disconnected and the tank is manoeuvred next to the dug
                hole in its discharge position. The sludge is then discharged into the hole by opening a
                pressure release valve. After putting the tank back in its original position, it can be used
                to pump sludge again. This routine is repeated until the required amount of sludge has
                been taken out of the pit. The equipment is then cleaned and returned to the neigh-
                bourhood parking place.
                   Minor repairs, such as spot welding loose parts and repairing tyre punctures, are
                carried out in small workshops in the area where the MAPET team operates, and are
                paid for by the team. Costs reach a maximum of US$ 25 per month. Larger repairs and
                special maintenance mainly involve repairing or replacing bearings, valves and guides;

                1
                    Muller & Rijnsburger (1994).
                                                                                                        8. SANITATION
                                                                                                                123


                   replacing the piston leather (once a year); and replacing the tyres. The jobs are done by
                   trained mechanics in a specialized workshop.
                       Although the service can be provided privately, it is more normal for the service to be
                   provided by the local sewerage departments. The responsibilities of a sewerage depart-
                   ment include:
                       — training and licensing the pit emptiers;
                       — manufacturing the MAPET equipment and providing the specialized maintenance
                         for it;
                       — monitoring the team’s performance and making adjustments in the event of poor
                         functioning, particularly when it concerns public health.


8.9.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                 Roles                                                                  Skills required

Latrine user/owner.    Contact the MAPET team, negotiate the number of tank loads to be             
                       removed, negotiate the cost.

MAPET team.            Empty the pits; stay in contact and negotiate with users; organize,         
                       carry out and pay for minor maintenance; and contact the workshop
                       when major repairs are needed.

Mechanic.              Carry out the more specialized repairs and maintenance of the               
                       equipment.

Sewerage               Monitor performance of the MAPET team, train the pit emptiers and          
department.            mechanics, organize transportation, and maintain equipment.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



8.9.4 O&M technical requirements for MAPET
Activity and frequency                     Materials and spare parts             Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— minor repairs, such as tyre              Rubber, glue, welding rods, spokes.   Basic bicycle repair equipment,
  punctures or small welding jobs.                                               basic welding equipment, bucket.

 Occasionally
— repair or replace handpump parts;        Timber, gas, pipe, water valves.      Basic mechanical workshop tools.

— repair the wheels.                       Bearings, tyres.                      Basic mechanical workshop tools.

 Annually
— replace the leather cup in the           Leather cup.                          Basic mechanical workshop tools.
  handpump.


             8.9.5 Potential problems
                       — flat tyres, broken metal parts that require welding, wheel bearings that wear out
                         rapidly, a damaged wheel, worn-out pump elements (bearings, valves, pistons), a
                         corroded tank;
                       — the system is not suitable if the sludge has to be transported more than 0.5 km to
                         the burying site or transfer station;
                       — transfer stations are only feasible if the municipalities facilitate the secondary col-
                         lection and treatment of the sludge;
                       — potential demand for MAPET service is high, but the system needs to be marketed
                         more aggressively.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
124


            8.10 Soakaway1
           8.10.1 The technology
                      A soakaway is a pit for collecting the liq-
                      uid effluent from a septic tank, which is
                      then allowed to infiltrate the ground.
                      The capacity of the pit should be at least
                      equal to that of the septic tank. The pit
                      may be filled with stones, broken bricks,
                      etc., in which case no lining is needed,
                      or it may be lined with open-jointed
                      masonry (often with a filling of sand or
                      gravel between the lining and the soil to
                      improve infiltration). The top 0.5 m of
                      the pit should be lined solidly, to pro-
                      vide firm support for the reinforced con-
                      crete cover. The cover is sometimes Figure 8.10 Soakaway
                      buried by 0.2–0.3 m of soil to keep in-
                      sects out of the pit. The size of the soakaway is determined mainly by the volume of liquid
                      effluents produced, and by local soil conditions. With large effluent flows, drainage
                      trenches may be more economical than soakaways. Planting trees adjacent to, or over, a
                      soakaway can improve both transpiration and permeability.
                      Area of use: In rural or periurban areas where sufficient water is available, the soil is
                      permeable, and there is no bedrock or groundwater near the surface.

          8.10.2 Main O&M activities
                      Hardly any activities are required to operate the system, except when the soakaway or
                      septic tank overflows. Then the tank outflow should be cleaned and the delivery pipe
                      unblocked, if necessary.


8.10.3 Actors and their roles
Actor                       Roles                                                                       Skills required

Householder/user            Check the outflow tank and performance of the soakaway.                           
or local caretaker.

Local artisan.              Repair broken parts, remove obstructions in delivery pipes.                      
Agency department. Monitor performance of the systems, train users/caretakers and                          
                   local artisans, provide assistance with big problems.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


8.10.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                         Materials and spare parts         Tools and equipment

Once a month
— check the outflow of the tank                Water.                            Brush, tools to open the access.
  boxes and clean them.

Whenever necessary
— repair the pipe connection to the            Water, materials for              Brush, shovel, and tools to open the
  soakaway.                                    dismantling pipes.                access, and to dismantle connector pipes.

                      1
                          National Environmental Health Association (1979); Kaplan (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
                                                                                                   8. SANITATION
                                                                                                            125


8.10.5 Potential problems
             — the soakaway overflows – this is a particular problem if both toilet wastes and sul-
               lage are collected in the septic tank and the tank was designed for toilet wastes
               only;
             — the system not suitable if there is not enough space or water, or sufficient financial
               resources for construction, where the soil is not permeable enough or is too hard
               to dig out (bedrock), or where the groundwater is close to the surface.


 8.11 Drainage field1
8.11.1 The technology
       Drainage fields consist of gravel-filled
       underground trenches, called leachlines
       or drainage trenches, that allow the
       liquid effluent from a septic tank to in-
       filtrate the ground. Open-jointed (stone-
       ware) or perforated (PVC) pipes lead the
       liquid effluent into the drainage field.
       Initially, infiltration may be fast, but af-
       ter several years the soil clogs and an
       equilibrium infiltration rate is reached.
       If the sewage flow exceeds the equilib-
       rium rate of the soil, sewage will eventu-
       ally surface over the drainage field.
       Pressure can be taken off drainage fields
       by reducing the amount of water and
       solids flowing into the solids interceptor
       tank (e.g. by installing toilets that use less
                                                      Figure 8.11 Drainage field
       water – “low-flush” toilets), or by prevent-
       ing sullage from entering the tank
            The drainage trenches are usually 0.3–0.5 m wide and 0.6–1.0 m deep (from the top
       of the pipes). The trenches are laid with a 0.2–0.3% gradient of gravel (20–50 mm diam-
       eter), and a 0.3–0.5 m layer of soil on top. A barrier of straw or building paper prevents
       the soil from washing down. The trenches should be laid in series so that as each trench
       fills, it overflows to the next one. This ensures that each trench is used either fully, or not
       at all. The trenches should be 2 m apart, or twice the trench depth if this is greater than
       1 m. The bottom of a trench should be at least 0.5–1 m above groundwater, bedrock or
       impermeable soil, and the slope of the land should not exceed 10%.
            An area of land equal in size to the drainage field should be kept in reserve, either to
       allow the field to be extended in the future, or to allow another drainage field to be dug
       if the first becomes clogged. Drainage fields are often used instead of soakaways, where
       larger quantities of liquid effluent are produced.

8.11.2 Main O&M activities
       Hardly any activities are required to operate the system, except to watch for field over-
       flows, switching to a second drainage field every 6–12 months, and determining the dates
       of switching (if applicable). The tank outflow should be cleaned, and checked that it is in
       good working order (if not, it should repaired). Sometimes, it may be necessary to un-
       block the delivery pipe. Diversion boxes should be cleaned from time to time, based on
       experience from operating the system. Plant growth should be controlled, to prevent
       roots from entering the pipes or trenches. Minor O&M and book-keeping may be organ-
       1
           National Environmental Health Association (1979); Kaplan (1991); Franceys, Pickford & Reed (1992).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
126


                      ized and carried out by households, groups of households or the community organiza-
                      tion. The responsible government department needs to monitor the performance of
                      drainage fields, and train users, organizations, artisans and caretakers on the technical
                      aspects of their O&M.


8.11.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                      Roles                                                                    Skills required

Householder/user            Check the outflow tank and performance of the drainage field, and              
or local caretaker.         control plant growth.

Local artisan.              Repair broken parts, remove obstructions in delivery pipes.                   
Agency.                     Monitor system performance, train users/caretakers and local artisans       
                            in the use of the system, provide assistance with major problems.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.


8.11.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                        Materials and spare parts               Tools and equipment

 Regularly
— control plant growth.                                                               Shovel, bucket, machete, etc.

 Every month
— clean the diversion boxes.                  Water.                                  Shovel, brush.

 Once a month
— check tank outflow pipe and                 Water.                                  Brush, tools to open the access
  clean it.                                                                           hole.

 Once every 6–12 months
— switch to another drainage field.           Bricks or other material to block       Tools to open the diversion box.
                                              pipes.

 Occasionally
— unblock the delivery pipe.                  Water, piping, glue.                    Brush, shovel, long stick or flexible
                                                                                      brush, knife, saw.



             8.11.5 Potential problems
                            — overflowing leachlines, unpleasant odours, groundwater contamination and so-
                              cial conflict (over siting of the drainage fields, odours, etc.);
                            — there is not enough water to use or maintain the system;
                            — there is not enough space or financial resources for construction;
                            — the permeability of the soil is poor;
                            — the bedrock or groundwater are close to the surface;


             8.12 Small-bore sewerage system1
             8.12.1 The technology
                      Small-bore sewerage (or settled sewerage) systems are designed to receive only the liquid
                      fraction of household wastewater. The solid component of the wastewater is kept in an
                      interceptor tank (basically a single-compartment septic tank) and settles out. Periodi-
                      cally, the interceptor tank will need to be desludged. Because small-bore sewers only

                      1
                          Reed (1995); Mara (1996).
                                                                                    8. SANITATION
                                                                                            127


      receive liquid sewage, they are designed
      differently from conventional sewers and
      have the following advantages:
          — the system uses less water, since
            solids do not need to be trans-
            ported;
          — excavation costs are cheaper be-
            cause the pipes can be laid at shal-
            low depths;
          — the sewage flow rates in small-bore
            pipes do not have to be self-cleans-
            ing rates;
          — material costs are lower, because
            the pipe diameter can be small
            (peak flow is reduced by the in-
            terceptor tanks), and there is no
            need for large manholes;             Figure 8.12 Small-bore sewerage system
          — there are fewer treatment require-
            ments, because the solids are kept in interceptor tanks.
      The small-bore sewer system consists of house connections, an interceptor tank, sewers,
      cleanouts/ manholes, vents, a sewage treatment plant, and lift stations (where gravity
      flow is not possible).
          The system is most appropriate for areas that already have septic tanks, but where the
      soil cannot (or can no longer) absorb the effluent, or where the population is too dense
      and there is no room for soakaways. Small-bore sewerage systems also provide an eco-
      nomical way of upgrading existing sanitation facilities to a level more comparable to
      conventional sewers.
      Initial cost: No recent data were available, but the cost of the system in Brotas (Brazil)
      was estimated to be 78% cheaper than conventional sewerage; in Australia and USA, the
      savings on construction costs were 25–35%, but this excluded the cost of the interceptor
      tanks.
      Area of use: In areas where individual soakaways are not appropriate (due to soil condi-
      tions or densities), and areas where pour-flush latrines with soakpits can be upgraded to
      a small-bore sewerage system.

8.12.2 Main O&M activities
      The main operational requirements for the household are to ensure that no solids enter
      the system, and that the interceptor tank functions properly. This should be checked by
      the local sewerage authority, because the system will be at risk if solids can enter. The
      sludge in the interceptor tank also needs to be removed regularly, and blockages in the
      sewage pipes removed. The system will also need to be flushed periodically. The per-
      formance of the pipeline system components, such as cleanouts, manholes, lift stations
      (possibly) and ventilation points should be regularly checked and maintained.
         The main organizational activity with the system is to provide desludging services for
      the interceptor tanks. The principal problems related to desludging revolve around re-
      sponsibility. Normally this lies with the property owners, since the interceptor tanks are
      on their property. But residents who are not owners have no incentive to desludge the
      tanks regularly, since this costs money and is inconvenient, and the overflowing sludge in
      the sewerage system does not directly affect them (even though it will affect the commu-
      nal sewerage system downstream). If the sewer system is to work effectively, therefore,
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
128


                     responsibility for tank desludging must fall on the organization responsible for commu-
                     nal sewer maintenance. This organization should also bear responsibility for treating
                     liquids from the sewers.


8.12.3 Actors and their roles
Actors                  Roles                                                                    Skills required

Householder.            Check household plant and equipment, and help the community                    
                        organization inspect the tanks and common sewer line.

Local labour/           Check on-site plant and equipment, perform small repairs, and                
mechanic.               remove blockages in the sewer pipes.

Community               Organize the regular checking of the community sewer, notify the               
organization.           agency of problems that cannot be solved, and collect sewer charges.

Agency.                 Monitor the system’s performance; keep regular contacts with                
                        community organizations and monitor their performance; train teams
                        and mechanics; organize staff and community members; operate
                        and maintain the collector sewer, pumping station and treatment plant.
 Basic skills.  Technical skills.  Highly qualified.



8.12.4 O&M technical requirements
Activity and frequency                     Materials and spare parts              Tools and equipment

 Daily/weekly
— clean the grease trap.                                                          Specialized tools and equipment.

 Regularly
— inspect the street sewers.               Specialized spare parts and            Specialized tools and equipment.
                                           materials.

 At least annually
— check the inspection chambers,           Water.                                 Basic mechanical tool set.
  plant and equipment (pumps,
  controls, vacuum chamber, surge
  chamber, and valves).

 When needed
— repairs and removal of blockages.        Water, specialized materials and       Rodding tool, mechanical tool set.
                                           spare parts.



           8.12.5 Potential problems
                        — the interceptor tanks overflow, because they have not been desludged in time;
                        — the system becomes blocked because of illegal connections that by-pass the inter-
                          ceptor tank;
                        — small-bore sewerage systems are basically only suitable where there are septic tanks
                          or other on-site systems;
                        — the need to desludge the interceptor tank regularly requires the involvement of a
                          well-organized sewerage department.
                                                                                          9. BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                                                                                      129


9. Bibliography



  Note: The author names of references cited in text are indicated with bold font. Other
  publications listed are relevant to the topics in this manual.

  Acra A, Raffoul Z, Karahagopian Y (1984) Solar disinfection of drinking-water and oral rehydration
     solutions: guidelines for household application in developing countries. Beirut, Illustrated Publica-
     tions.
  Acra A et al. (1990) Water disinfection by solar radiation: assessment and application. Ottawa, Interna-
     tional Development Research Centre (Technical Study/IDRC 66c).
  Acrema (1988) Volanta: pièces de réchange: cahier d’entretien. Tahoua, Burkina Faso, Acrema.
  An Foras Forbartha, Electricity Supply Board and Alternative Energy Committee (1981) The devel-
     opment of small-scale hydro-schemes. Dublin, Department of Industry and Energy.
  Anglade A et al. (1985) Les énergies de pompage: approvisionnement en eau et énergies renouvelables.
     Verberie (France), Institut Technologique Dello (Dossier Technologies et Développement).
  Arlosoroff S et al. (1987) Community water supply: the handpump option. Washington, DC, World
     Bank.
  Bakalian A et al. (1994) Simplified sewerage: design guidelines. Washington, DC, UNDP-World Bank
     Water and Sanitation Programme (Water and Sanitation Report No. 7).
  Bakhteari QA, Wegelin-Schuringa M (1992) From sanitation to development: the case of the Baldia soakpit
     pilot project. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Technical Paper Se-
     ries/IRC No. 31).
  Barry MA (1990) Rapport d’activité sur les experimentations de pompes à motricité humaine en hydraulique
     villageoise. Ouagadougou, Comité Interafricain d’Etudes Hydrauliques (Série Hydraulique
     villageoise).
  Barry MA (1990) Evaluation de trente hydropompes Vergnet dans la province Yatenga (Burkina
     Faso). Bulletin de Liaison du Comité Interafricain d’Etudes Hydrauliques, 79:29–33.
  Bastemeyer T, Visscher JT (1987) Maintenance systems for rural water supplies. The Hague, IRC Inter-
     national Water and Sanitation Centre (Occasional Paper Series/IRC No. 8).
  Baumann E (1993a) Choice of technology: a paper prepared for a CWS project in Ghana. St. Gallen, Swiss
     Centre for Development Cooperation in Technology and Management.
  Baumann E (1993b) Performance evaluation of handpumps used in UNICEF projects (Draft). St Gallen,
     Swiss Centre for Development Cooperation in Technology and Management.
  Baumann E (2000) Water lifting. St. Gallen, Swiss Centre for Development Cooperation in Tech-
     nology and Management (SKAT Manuals on Drinking-Water Supply, Volume 7).
  Besselink J (1990) Problèmes techniques de la pompe Volanta à Dosso, Niger: inventarisation et analyse,
     causes et remèdes: rapport de la mission d’appui au PHV/DDH Dosso Niger du 6.05.90 au 8.07.90.
     Arnhem, Netherlands, Interaction Design.
  Besselink J, van Wilgenburg F (1992) Small-scale drinking-water supply systems for deep wells: two desk
     studies of aspects of deep well handpumps and alternative small-scale mechanical drinking-water supply
     systems. The Hague, Section for Research and Technology, Directorate-General for Develop-
     ment Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
  Bielenberg C, Hugh A (1995) How to make and use the treadle irrigation pump. London, Intermediate
     Technology Publications, 1995.
  Blair Research Laboratory (1988) Bucket pump manual for field workers. Harare, Zimbabwe.
  Blair Research Laboratory (1991) The Zimbabwe Bush pump: a manual for the installation, dismantling
      and maintenance of the “B” type Bush pump. Harare, Zimbabwe.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
130


                Boesch A, Schertenleib R (1985) Emptying on-site excreta disposal systems: field tests with mechanized
                   equipment in Gaborone (Botswana). Duebendorf (Switzerland), International Reference Centre
                   for Waste Disposal (IRCWD Report No. 03/85).
                Boesveld M (1988) The Public Standpost Water Supplies Project in Indonesia: an overview with special
                   emphasis on the methodology applied at the local demonstration schemes. Bandung (Indonesia), Insti-
                   tute of Human Settlements.
                Brand A, Bradford B (1991) Rainwater harvesting and water use in the barrios of Tegucigalpa. Tegucigalpa
                   (Honduras), UNICEF.
                Brandberg B (1997) Latrine building: a handbook to implementing the Sanplat system. London, Inter-
                   mediate Technology Publications.
                Bridger GA (1988) Rural water supply. Ratmalana (Sri Lanka), National Water Supply and Drain-
                   age Board (Design Manual, No. Dl).
                Bridger GA (1989) Urban water supply and sanitation. Ratmalana (Sri Lanka), National Water Sup-
                   ply and Drainage Board (Design Manual, No. D2).
                Brikké F (2000) Training Course Package in Management of Operation and Maintenance of Rural Water
                   Supply and Sanitation. Delft, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre, and Geneva, World
                   Health Organization.
                Brikké F, Rojas J (2001) Seven key principles for sustainable cost recovery, in the context of community water
                   supply. Delft, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (draft of an occasional paper).
                Brush RE (1979) Well construction: hand dug and hand drilled. Washington, DC, US Peace Corps
                   (Appropriate Technologies for Development).
                Cairncross S, Feachem RG (1993) Environmental health engineering in the tropics: an introductory text,
                   2nd edition. Chichester, Wiley.
                Carlsson B, Drake E (1990) Handbook for village water supply operators. Gaborone (Botswana), Uni-
                   fied Local Government Service, Ministry of Local Government and Lands Centre.
                Carty D (1990) Water-well bucket protection in Zambia. Waterlines, 8(4):26–28.
                Castilla Ruiz A, Galvis Castano G (1993) Bombas y estaciones de bombeo. [Pumps and pump stations].
                   Cali, CINARA.
                Chimbunde E, Mtero S (1991) Zimbabwe’s upgraded well programme. In: Pickford J, ed. Infra-
                   structure, environment, water and people: proceedings of the 17th WEDC Conference, United Nations
                   Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat), Nairobi, Kenya, 19–23 August 1991. Loughborough, Wa-
                   ter, Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC), Loughborough University of Technol-
                   ogy, pp. 111–113.
                CIEH et Fondation de l’Eau (1990) Les pompes à motricité humaine: principes, critères de choix, fiches de
                   produits. Limoges (France), Fondation de l’Eau (Les Cahiers Techniques, No. 13).
                CIEH et BURGEAP (1991) Etude du vieillissement des forages d’hydraulique villageoise et semi-urbaine en
                   zone de socle cristallin. Ouagadougou, Comité Interafricain d’Etudes Hydrauliques (Série
                   hydrogéologie).
                Clark L (1992) The field guide to water wells and bore holes. London, Intermediate Technology Publi-
                   cations.
                Cotton A, Jansens J (1994) Tools for the assessment of operation and maintenance status of urban and
                   rural water supply and sanitation. Geneva, World Health Organization, Operation and Mainte-
                   nance Working Group.
                Cotton A et al. (1993) Development of tools for the assessment of operation and maintenance status of water
                   supplies in lesser and least developing countries (draft). Geneva, World Health Organization.
                Craun GF (1993) Safety of water disinfection: balancing chemical and microbial risks. Washington, DC,
                   ILSI Press.
                Cumberlege OR, Kiongo JM (1994) A community approach to building rainwater cisterns. In:
                  Bambrah GK, Otieno FO, Thomas DB, eds. Participation in rainwater collection for low-income
                  communities and sustainable development: proceedings of the sixth International Conference on Rainwa-
                  ter Catchment Systems, 1–6 August 1993. Nairobi, International Rainwater Catchment Systems
                  Association, pp. 351–357.
                Dahi E (1990) Environmental engineering in developing countries: a textbook. Lyngby (Denmark),
                   Polyteknisk Forlag.
                Debris T, Collignon B (1994) Entrepreneurs puisatiers du Sahel: la promotion des artisans et des petites
                   entreprises du secteur hydraulique. Paris, Association Française des Volontaires du Progrès, Ministère
                   de la Coopération.
                                                                                            9. BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                                                                                         131


Delmas G, Courvallet M (1994) Public health engineering in emergency situation: a handbook for imple-
   menting health programmes in deprived environments, in particular in camps of displaced persons. Paris,
   Médecins sans Frontières.
Derrick A, Francis C, Bokalders V (1991) Solar photovoltaic products: a guide for development workers
   (revised edition). London, Intermediate Technology Publications.
de Vries ET, Berkhuizen JC (1989) Waterkracht in ontwikkelingslanden: basisrapport. Rotterdam, Insti-
   tute for Communication and Advice on Energy and Environment.
de Vries ET, Berkhuizen JC (1989) Hydropower in developing countries. Rotterdam, Institute for Com-
   munication and Advice on Energy and Environment.
Diluca C (1983) L’hydraulique villageoise dans les pays membres du CILSS: conditions d’utilisation et
   d’entretien des moyens d’exhaure. Ouagadougou, Comité Interafricain d’études hydrauliques.
Ellis KV (1991) ‘Water disinfection: a review with some consideration of the requirements of the
    Third World. Critical Reviews in Environmental Control, 20(5/6):341–407.
Elson B, Shaw R (1995) Simple drilling methods. Waterlines, 13(3):16–18.
Erskine JM (1991) Rain water harvesting systems in Southern Africa. In: Show-Chyuan Chu, ed.
   Rainwater catchment for future generations: proceedings of the fifth International Conference in Rain
   Water Cistern Systems, Keelung, Taiwan, 4–10 August 1991. Keelung, National Taiwan Ocean Uni-
   versity, pp. 574–585.
Esrey SA et al (1988) Ecological sanitation. Stockholm, Swedish International Development Author-
   ity (SIDA).
Farley M (1995) Training course package on leakage control. Geneva, World Health Organization,
   Operation and Maintenance Working Group.
Fernando V, De Mel JH (1991) Non-governmental organisations (NG0s) in Sri Lanka: an introduction.
   Colombo, NGO Water Supply and Sanitation Decade Service.
Folkard GK, Sutherland JP, Shaw R (1999) Water clarification using Moringa oleifera seed coagu-
   lant (Technical Brief, No. 60). Waterlines, 17(4):15–18.
Fondation de l’Eau (1985) Les pompes centrifuges: entretien et maintenance. Limoges, Fondation de
   l’Eau (Les Cahiers Technique, No. 1).
Fondation de l’Eau (1989) La chloration des eaux: principe, exploitation et maintenance des installations.
   Limoges, SEDA (Les Cahiers Techniques, No. 10).
Fonseka J, Baumann E (1994) Evaluation of maintenance systems in Ghana. St. Gallen, Swiss Centre
   for Development Cooperation in Technology and Management (SKAT).
Fraenkel P (1986) Water-pumping devices: a handbook for users and choosers. London, Intermediate
   Technology Publications.
Franceys R (1986) Twelfth WEDC Conference: water and sanitation at mid-decade. Loughborough, Wa-
   ter, Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC), Loughborough University of Technol-
   ogy.
Franceys R, Pickford J, Reed R (1992) A guide to the development of on-site sanitation. Geneva, World
   Health Organization.
Galvis G et al. (1993) Pre-treatment alternatives for drinking-water supply systems: selection, design, opera-
   tion and maintenance. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Occasional
   Paper Series, No. 22).
Garvey G, Kiros G, Yegletu A (1991) Hand dug wells: field experience from Ethiopia. In: Pickford
   J, ed. Infrastructure, environment, water and people: proceedings of the 17th WEDC Conference, United
   Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat), Nairobi, 19–23 August 1991. Loughborough, Wa-
   ter, Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC), Loughborough University of Technol-
   ogy, pp. 181–184.
Gilman RH, Skillicorn P (1985) Boiling of drinking-water: can a fuel-scare community afford it?
   Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 63(1):157–163.
Goetsch O (1989) Evaluation of water supply systems, constructed from 1964 to 1989. Yaoundé, CD/
   Helvetas.
Goetsch O (1989) Evaluation of water points and wells, constructed from 1964 to 1989. Yaoundé, CD/
   Helvetas.
Gould JE (1991) Rainwater catchment systems for household water supply. Bangkok, Environmental
  Sanitation Information Center, Asian Institute of Technology (Environmental Sanitation Re-
  views, No. 32).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
132


                Graham NJD (1988) Slow sand filtration: recent developments in water treatment technology. Chichester,
                   Ellis Horwood (Ellis Horwood series in Water and Wastewater Technology).
                Groundwater Survey (1989). Inventory of well-siting methods: final report. Revised edition. Nairobi, Kenya,
                   Groundwater Survey (Well-siting for low-cost water supplies, vol. 1).
                Hailu S (1988) Applicability of small-bore gravity sewers in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Tampere (Finland),
                   Tampere University of Technology (Publication Series B, No. 31).
                Harris D (1992) Disinfection for rural community water supply systems in developing countries. Arlington,
                   VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project.
                Harvey A et al. (1993) Micro-hydro design manuals: a guide to small-scale water power schemes. London,
                   Intermediate Technology Publications.
                Hasse R (1989) Rainwater reservoirs above ground structures for roof catchment: most common rainwater
                   tanks in comparison and construction manual. Braunschweig, Vieweg.
                Hodgkin J et al. (1991) Meeting rural pumping needs in Sudan: an analysis of pumping system choice
                  (diesel, wind, or solar). Burlington, VT, Associates in Rural Development.
                Hofkes EH (1983) Handpump maintenance: guidelines for organising handpump maintenance systems.
                   The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre.
                Hofkes EH, Visscher JT (1986) Renewable energy sources for rural water supply. The Hague, IRC Inter-
                  national Water and Sanitation Centre (Technical Paper Series, No. 23).
                Hofkes EH et al. (1983) Small community water supplies: technology of small water supply systems in
                   developing countries. Enlarged edition. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Cen-
                   tre (Technical Paper Series, No. 18).
                Inversin AR (1986) Micro-hydropower sourcebook: a practical guide to design and implementation in devel-
                   oping countries. Washington, DC, NRECA International Foundation.
                IRC (1982) Rural water supply development: the Buba-Tombali water project: 1978–1981. The Hague,
                   IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre.
                IRC (1983) Water supply for small communities. Delft, IRC International Water and Sanitation Cen-
                   tre (Technical Paper Series, No. 18).
                IRC (1993) Taking care of your water supply: a manual for community-based operation and maintenance of
                   piped water systems. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Training Se-
                   ries, No. 10).
                IRC, DGIS (1986) Pompe à main Volanta: instructions d’entretien. The Hague, IRC International Wa-
                   ter and Sanitation Centre.
                IRC, IDRC (1988) Handpumps: issues and concepts in rural water supply programmes. The Hague, IRC
                   International Water and Sanitation Centre (Technical Paper Series, No. 25).
                IRC, WHO (2000) Management of operation and maintenance of rural water and sanitation programmes
                   – a training package for managers and planners. Geneva, World Health Organization.
                Isely RB (1983) Evaluation of health and social benefits of springs capped for irrigation, further adapted for
                    domestic use in central Tunisia. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project (WASH
                    Field Report, No. 84).
                Jeffcoate P, Pond R (1989) Large water meters: guidelines for selection, testing, and maintenance. Wash-
                    ington DC, World Bank (World Bank Technical Paper, No. 111).
                Jeffrey TD et al. (1992) Hydraulic ram pumps: a guide to ram pump water supply systems. London,
                    Intermediate Technology Publications.
                Jigabha J (1992) Water metering development in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Tampere, Institute of Water
                    and Environmental Engineering, Tampere University of Technology (Publication Series B,
                    No. 52).
                Johansen SS et al. (1983) Water operators handbook: Mongu Training Centre, Western Province, Zambia.
                   Lusaka, Zambia Department of Water Affairs.
                Jordan TD (1984) A handbook of gravity-flow water systems for small communities. London, Intermedi-
                   ate Technology Publications.
                Jordan JK, Buijs P, Wyatt AS (1986) Assessment of the operations and maintenance component of water
                   supply projects. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project (WASH Technical Re-
                   port, No. 35).
                Kaplan OB (1991) Septic systems handbook, 2nd ed. Chelsea, MI, Lewis.
                Kern C (1989) Community water development. London, Intermediate Technology Publications.
                                                                                         9. BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                                                                                     133


Kurian T, El Mowaffi S, Mullick MA (1984) Installation, operation and maintenance manual for vertical
   turbine pumps, submersible pumps, horizontal pumps, and diesel engines. Sanaa, Rural Water Supply
   Department.
KWAHO (1988) The Afridev handpump: scheduled maintenance, No. 1. Nairobi, KWAHO.
Lambert R (1990) How to make a rope-and-washer pump. London, Intermediate Technology Publica-
   tions.
Lammerink M et al. (1995) Evaluation report: Nicaraguan experiences with the rope pump. The Hague,
   IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre.
Lancashire S, Kenna J, Fraenkel P (1987) Windpumping handbook. London, Intermediate Technol-
   ogy Publications.
Lauterjung H, Schmidt G (1989) Planning of intake structures. Braunschweig, Vieweg.
Laver S (1985) Handbook for the protection of village water supplies in Zimbabwe. Harare, University of
   Zimbabwe.
Laver S (1986) Raising water with different pumps: the Zimbabwe bucket pump. Harare, Blair Research
   Laboratory (Pump Handout, No. 1).
Laver S (1986) Raising water with different pumps: the Zimbabwe Blair pump. Harare, Blair Research
   Laboratory (Pump Handout, No. 2).
Lee MD, Bastemeijer TF (1991) Drinking-water source protection: a review of environmental factors affect-
   ing community water supplies. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Oc-
   casional Paper Series, No. 15).
Lee MD, Visscher JT (1990) Water harvesting in five African countries. The Hague, IRC International
   Water and Sanitation Centre (Occasional Paper Series, No. 14).
Lee MD, Visscher JT (1992) Water harvesting: a guide for planners and project managers. The Hague,
   IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Technical Paper Series, No. 30).
Lovejoy D (1985) Technical note on comparative costs of solar, wind and diesel pumping at village
   sites in Nigeria and Somalia. Natural Resources Forum, 9(1):77–80.
Luff R, Hoque E (1997) Disinfecting tube-well water: the evolution of a new technology. Waterlines,
   16(2): 30–32.
Manus Coffey Associates (1994) Proposal for low-cost mechanised latrine emptying system. Dublin, Manus
  Coffey Associates.
Mara DD (1984) The design of ventilated improved pit latrines. Washington, DC, World Bank (TAG
  Technical Note, No. 13).
Mara DD (1996) Low-cost urban sanitation. Chichester, Wiley.
Marseille M et al. (1989) Qualidade de água e uso de água, e situação de diarreia, na aldeia de Macharote,
  distrito de Dondo. [Water quality and usage and the diarrhoea situation in the village of Macharote,
  Dondo district]. Beira (Mozambique), Centro Regional de Higiene Ambiental (CRHA), Direcção
  Provincial de Saíde de Sofala.
Marshall K (1982) Evaluation of water current turbines in Southern Sudan. Rugby, United Kingdom,
  Intermediate Technology Development Group.
Mathewson l (1993) The rebirth of the hydraulic ram pump. Waterlines, 12(2):10–14.
Mayo AW (1991) Experience in rainwater harvesting in Tanzania. In: Show-Chyuan Chu, ed. Rain-
  water catchment for future generations: proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Rain Water
  Cistern Systems, Keelung, Taiwan, 4–10 August 1991. Keelung, National Taiwan Ocean University,
  pp. 535–546.
McGowan R, Ashworth J (1984) Comparative testing for water pumping systems installed in Botswana:
  general research methodology and specific field implementation instructions. Burlington, VT, Rural
  Development Inc.
McGowan R, Hodgkin J (1992) Pump selection: a field guide for energy efficient and cost-effective water
  pumping systems for developing countries. Revised edition. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for
  Health Project (WASH Technical Report, No. 61).
McPherson HJ (1990) Proceedings of the Meeting of the Operation and Maintenance Working Group,
  Geneva, 19–22 June 1990. Geneva, World Health Organization, Community Water Supply and
  Sanitation Unit.
McPherson HJ (1994) Selected case studies on operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation
  systems. Geneva, World Health Organization, Operation and Maintenance Working Group.
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
134


                McPherson HJ, McGarry MG (1987) User participation and implementation strategies in water
                  and sanitation projects. International Journal of Water Resources Development, 3(1):23–30.
                Meier U (1990) Hydram information package: a selected and annotated bibliography on hydraulic ram
                   pumps, including a list of manufacturers, a database printout on Hydram research and selected articles.
                   St. Gallen, SKAT (Working Paper, No. 1).
                Middleton RN (1995) Making VIP latrines succeed. Waterlines, 13(4):27–29.
                Milkov J (1987) Safe windlass shallow well: construction guide. Monrovia, Liberia, World Health Or-
                   ganization.
                Ministère de l’Hydraulique et de l’Environnement (1990) Programme d’hydraulique villageoise,
                   Département de Dosso: formation comités de gestion pompes Volanta – Dogon Doutchi. Dosso (Niger).
                Mohamed B (1989) Rapport d’activités sur les expérimentations de pompes à motricité humaine en hydraulique
                  villageoise. Ouagadougou, CIEH.
                Morgan P (1990) Rural water supplies and sanitation. London, Macmillan.
                Morgan P (1992) Upgraded well manual for field workers. Harare, Blair Research Laboratory.
                Mueller AM (1983) Farm economics of water lifting windmills: a guideline on economic and financial
                  analysis for feasibility studies. Amersfoort (Netherlands), Consultancy Services for Wind Energy
                  in Developing Countries (Publication CWD, 84-1).
                Muller M, Rijnsburger J (1994) MAPET manual pit-latrine emptying technology project: development and
                  pilot implementation of a neighbourhood-based pit-emptying service with locally manufactured handpump
                  equipment in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 1998–1992: final report. Gouda (Netherlands), WASTE
                  Consultants.
                National Environmental Health Association (1979) State of the art manual of on-site wastewater man-
                   agement. Denver, CO, National Environmental Health Association.
                NEERI (1987) Report on water quality assessment: Ramanathapuram district (Tamil Nadu, India). Nagpur,
                  National Environmental Engineering Research Institute.
                NEERI, IRC (1989) Slow sand filtration: phase IV final report. Nagpur, National Environmental Engi-
                  neering Research Institute.
                Neway A (1992) Solar energy in water pumping and its economics. Tampere, Institute of Water and
                  Environmental Engineering, Tampere University of Technology (Publication Series B, No. 50).
                Nilsson A (1988) Groundwater dams for small-scale water supply. Revised edition. London, Intermedi-
                    ate Technology Publications.
                Nutbeam D, Aar L, Catford J (1989) Understanding children’s’ health behaviour: the implica-
                   tions for health promotion for young people. Social Science and Medicine, 29(3):317–325.
                Nyangeri EEN (1986) Rehabilitation of hand-dug wells and protected springs in Kisil, Kenya. Tampere,
                   Tampere University of Technology (Water Supply and Sanitation Publications, No. 29).
                Omwenga JM. Rainwater harvesting for domestic water supply in Kisil, Kenya. Tampere, Tampere Uni-
                  versity of Technology, 1984 (Water Supply and Sanitation Publications, No. 17).
                Orr A, Nazrul Islam ASM, Barnes C (1991) The treadle pump: manual irrigation for small farmers in
                   Bangladesh. Dhaka, Rangpur Dinajpur Rural Service.
                Otis RJ, Mara DD (1985) The design of small-bore sewer systems. Washington DC, World Bank (TAG
                   Technical Note, No. 14).
                Pacey A (1980) Hand pump maintenance in the context of community well projects. London, Intermedi-
                   ate Technology Publications.
                Pacey A, Cullis A (1986) Rainwater harvesting: the collection of rainfall and runoff in rural areas. Lon-
                   don, Intermediate Technology Publications.
                Parr J, Smith M, Shaw R (1995) Chlorination of community water supplies. Waterlines, 14(2):15–
                   18 (Technical Brief, No. 46).
                Pickford J (1991) Infrastructure, environment, water and people: proceedings of the 17th WEDC Confer-
                   ence, United Nations Centre for Human Settlement (Habitat), Nairobi, 19–23 August 1991. Loughbor-
                   ough, Water, Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC), Loughborough University of
                   Technology.
                Pickford J (1995) Low-cost sanitation: a survey of practical experience. London, Intermediate Technol-
                   ogy Publications.
                Pickford J, Shaw R (1997) Emptying latrine pits. Waterlines, 16(2):15–18 (Technical Brief, No. 54).
                Pieck C (1983) Opvang en opslag van regenwater. [Rainwater catchment and storage]. Amsterdam, TOOL.
                Pieck C (1985) Catchment and storage of rainwater. Amsterdam, TOOL.
                                                                                         9. BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                                                                                      135


Pollak F (1988) Pump users handbook. Morden, England, Trade & Technical Press.
Rahman MM, O’Neill IC, Lawson JD (1989) Common effluent drainage system: an alternative in
   the wastewater management options for smaller communities. Asian Environment, 11(2):7–18.
Reed RA (1995) Sustainable sewerage: guidelines for community schemes. London, ITDG Publishing.
Reynolds J (1992) Handpumps: toward a sustainable technology: research and development during the
   Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. Washington DC, World Bank, Water and Sanitation Division
   (Water and Sanitation Report, No. 5).
Rienstra K (1990) Het voetpad naar de bron: de strijd voor het behoud van land en water. [The
   footpath to the source: the struggle for conservation of land and water in Nepal]. Internationale
   Samenwerking, 5(1):22–23.
Roark P (1992) Management models for the operation and maintenance of rural water supply and sanita-
   tion facilities. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project (WASH Technical Paper,
   No. 71).
Roark P, Tomaro J (1990) Internal evaluation of USAID assistance to the rural water supply and sanita-
   tion sector in Zaire. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project (WASH Field Report,
   No. 313).
Roark P, Hodgkin J, Wyatt A (1993) Models of management systems for the operation and maintenance of
   rural water supply and sanitation facilities. Arlington, VA, Water and Sanitation for Health Project
   (WASH Technical Report, No. 71).
Sandiford P et al (1993) The Nicaraguan rope pump. Waterlines, 11(3):27–30.
SATEC Développement, CIEH (1985) Etablissement d’un modèle de gestion de stations de pompage sur
   forages motorisés. Ouagadougou, CIEH (Serie Hydrogéologie).
Sethaputra C (1984) Collection and storage of roof runoff for drinking purposes. Khon Khaen (Thai-
   land), Faculty of Education, Khon Khaen University (Socioeconomic Studies, Vol. 4).
Shaw R (1999) Running water: more technical briefs for health, water and sanitation. London, Interme-
   diate Technology Publications.
Skoda JD, Reynolds C (1994) Rainwater catchment systems in South Pacific islands: experience of
   project implementation. In: Bambrah GK, Otieno FO, Thomas DB, eds. Participation in rainwa-
   ter collection for low-income communities and sustainable development: proceedings of the Sixth Interna-
   tional Conference on Rainwater Catchment Systems, 1–6 August 1993. Nairobi, International Rainwater
   Catchment Systems Association, pp. 317–326.
Skinner B, Shaw R (1998) Household water treatment: 1. Waterlines, 17(2):15–18 (Technical Brief,
   No. 58).
Skinner B, Shaw R (1999) Household water treatment: 2. Waterlines, 17(3):15–18 (Technical Brief,
   No. 59).
Smet J et al. (1988) Community self-improvement in water supply and sanitation: a training and reference
  manual for community health workers, community development workers and other community-based work-
  ers. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Training Series, No. 5).
Tiemersma JJ, Heeren NA (1984) Small-scale hydropower technologies: an overall view of hydropower
   technologies for small-scale appliances. Amsterdam, TOOL/CAT.
Tiridiri R (1984) Taking care of our springs: community participation in water supply and sanitation.
    Kampala, Ministry of Health (Educational Series, No. 1).
Turner JH (1987) Small engines: operation, maintenance and repair. Blue Ridge Summit, PA, TAB
   Books.
UNCHS (1986) The design of shallow sewer systems. Nairobi, United Nations Centre for Human Set-
  tlements.
UNDP/IAPSO (1995) Emergency relief items: compendium of generic specifications (Draft). Copenha-
  gen, United Nations Development Programme/Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office.
UNEP (1983) Rain and stormwater harvesting in rural areas: a report. Dublin, Tycooly (Water Re-
  sources Series, Vol. 5).
UNICEF (1993) India Mark II handpump: installation and maintenance manual. New Delhi, UNICEF.
UNICEF (1993) India Mark III (VLOM) deepwell handpump: installation and maintenance manual.
  New Delhi, UNICEF.
USAID (1982) Evaluating rainfall catchments. Washington DC, US Agency for International Devel-
  opment (Water for the World Technical Note, No. RWS.1.P.5).
van de Korput J, Langendijk M (1993) The pour flush latrine for guests only? A sociocultural perspective
   on the pour flush latrine in Chitral. Gilgit (Pakistan), Aga Khan Health Service (Issue Paper 3).
LINKING TECHNOLOGY CHOICE WITH OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
136


                van Hemert B van et al. (1992) The rope pump: the challenge of popular technology. Juigalpa (Nicara-
                   gua), Dirreción de Acueductos Rurales.
                van Meel J, Smulders P (1989) Wind pumping: a handbook. Washington DC, World Bank (World
                   Bank Technical Paper, No. 101).
                van Wijk-Sijbesma C (1987) What price water? User participation in paying for community-based water
                   supply with particular emphasis on piped systems. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanita-
                   tion Centre (Occasional Paper Series, No. 10).
                van Winden J (1990) Rural Mechanics Course 3: maintenance and repair of stationary diesel engines.
                   Amsterdam, TOOL.
                Verhaegh M (1990) Water, the spring of life: a research on the quality of drinking-water in the Mantsonyane
                   area. Maastricht, University of Maastricht.
                Vigneswaran S, Bhattarai KK, Sharma Tiwaree R (1989) Small community water supply: an illustrative
                   manual. Bangkok, Asian Institute of Technology, Environmental Engineering Division.
                Visscher JT, Veenstra S (1990) Slow sand filtration: guide for training of caretakers. The Hague, IRC
                    International Water and Sanitation Centre (Training Series, No. 6).
                Visscher JT et al (1987) Slow sand filtration for community water supply: planning, design, construction,
                   operation and maintenance. The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre (Tech-
                   nical Paper Series, No. 24).
                Waller DH (1989) Rain water: an alternative source in developing and developed countries. Water
                   International, 14(1):27–36.
                Water Pollution Control Federation. Alternative sewer systems. Alexandria, VA, Water Pollution Con-
                   trol Federation (Manual of Practice, No. FD-12).
                Water Research Centre, WHO Regional Office for Europe (1989) Disinfection of rural and small-
                   community water supplies: a manual for design and operation. Medmenham, Water Research Cen-
                   tre.
                Watt S (1984) Septic tanks and aquaprivies from ferrocement. London, Intermediate Technology Pub-
                   lications.
                WEDC (1991) The worth of water: technical briefs on health, water and sanitation. London, Intermedi-
                  ate Technology Publications.
                Wegelin-Schuringa M (1991) On-site sanitation: building on local practice. The Hague, IRC Interna-
                  tional Water and Sanitation Centre (Occasional Paper Series, 16).
                Wegelin-Schuringa M (1993) Operation and maintenance of sanitation systems in urban low-income areas
                  in India and Thailand: final report. The Hague, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Directorate-General
                  for Development Cooperation.
                Wegelin M, Sommer B (1998) Solar water disinfection (SODIS) – destined for worldwide use?
                  Waterlines, 16(3):30–32.
                White GC (1986) The handbook of chlorination, 2nd ed. New York, Van Nostrand Reinhold.
                WHO (1988) Guidelines for cholera control. Geneva, World Health Organization.
                WHO (1994) Guidelines for the management of operation and maintenance of urban water supply and
                  sanitation systems. Geneva, World Health Organization.
                Wilson H (1988) Costs and financing of water supply and sanitation activities. New York, UNICEF
                   Water and Environmental Sanitation Team.
                Winblad U, Kilama W (1985) Sanitation without water. Revised edition. Basingstoke, Macmillan
                   (Macmillan Education).
                Wolters H, Visscher JT (1989) Slow sand filtration: a simple and reliable method to purify drinking-water.
                   The Hague, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre.
                Wood M (1993) A handpump for Africa: the Afridev experience. Waterlines, 11(4):29–31.
                Wray A (1989) Water, engineering and development in Africa: proceedings of the 15th WEDC Conference,
                   Kano, Nigeria, 3–7 April 1989. Loughborough, WEDC, Loughborough University of Technol-
                   ogy.
                Wurzel P, de Rooy C (1993) Boreholes versus handpumps: addressing a mismatch. Waterfront,
                  3(6–7):20–21.
                Yaziz MI, Din O (1988) Portable slow sand filter performance. In: Proceedings of the 14th WEDC
                    Conference: water and urban services in Asia and the Pacific, Kuala Lumpur, 11–15 April 1988. Lough-
                    borough, WEDC, Loughborough University of Technology, pp. 19–22.
