  Assessing Microbial
Safety of Drinking Water

       IMPROVING APPROACHES
               AND METHODS




Published on behalf of the World Health Organization
  and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
               and Development by
   This book is one of a series of texts developed to support the development of
microbial aspects in the third edition of WHO's Guidelines for Drinking-water
Quality and to provide guidance to policy-makers, regulators and practitioners in
aspects of planning and implementation. The other volumes include:

•    Protecting groundwater for health: managing the quality of drinking-water
     sources
•    Protecting surface water for health: managing the quality of drinking-water
     sources
•    Water quality and drinking-water treatment: the impact of treatment processes
     on microbial water quality and occurrence of pathogens and indicators in
     surface waters
•    Microbial water quality in piped distribution systems: a review of knowledge
     and practice
•    Managing water in the home: accelerating health gains from improved water
     quality
•    Water safety plans: managing public water supplies for safety

    Other texts of direct relevance include:

    From WHO

•    Water Quality: Guidelines, standards and health
•    Legionella and the prevention of legionellosis
•    A separate series of texts deals with emerging issues in water and infectious
     disease
•    Pathogenic mycobacteria in water
•    Hazard characterization for pathogens in food and water (WHO and FAO)
•    Quantifying public health risks in the Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality: a
     burden of disease approach

    From OECD

•    OECD Proceedings. Biotechnology for water use and conservation: The
     Mexico '96 Workshop (1997)
•    The price of water: trends in OECD countries (1999)
•    Molecular technologies for safe drinking water (1998) (available at
     http://www.oecd.org/pdf/M000014000/M00014623.pdf)
•    Drinking water and infectious disease: establishing the links (co-published
     by IWA, 2002)
                                FOREWORD



      Inadequate drinking water supply and quality and poor sanitation are
among the world’s major causes of preventable morbidity and mortality.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, basic hygiene-
related diseases have a significant impact on human health. Diarrhoeal disease
alone causes 2.2 million of the 3.4 million water-related deaths per year. Many
of the deaths involve children under five years of age and the poorest
households and communities. The problem is not limited to developing
countries. In member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD), waterborne outbreaks occur all too frequently.
Moreover, many outbreaks remain undetected, and it is likely that, beyond the
reported outbreaks, there is an unrecognised background burden of disease.

     Water-related issues were high on the international policy agenda in the
1970s, following the first international conference on the environment, held in
Stockholm in 1972. However, by the time of the International Drinking Water
Supply and Sanitation Decade (1981-90), interest had begun to wane. In the
industrialised nations, concern focused on chemical contamination, and the
international agenda moved increasingly towards major environmental issues
such as global climate change, ozone depletion and desertification.

     There was, however, an increasing level of public and professional concern
about water safety, fuelled by concerns raised by outbreaks of disease and the
recognition of new agents of disease and the challenges they presented to health
protection. The 1993 Milwaukee outbreak, resulting in an estimated
400 000 cases of cryptosporidiosis, clearly underscored the severe consequences
of waterborne outbreaks in OECD countries. The Cryptosporidium outbreak
reported in Las Vegas, Nevada, in the spring of 1994 demonstrated the need for
better understanding of the effectiveness of indicators and treatment processes
in controlling waterborne pathogens. It also indicated the need for a re-
evaluation of the effectiveness of traditional indicators as a basis for risk
management, since the outbreaks occurred in waters that met the safety
standards set by guidelines for traditional index and indicator bacteria.




                                       3
      Water and health have again moved up the international policy agenda as
part of a more comprehensive understanding of sustainable development. This
is evident in the declarations from the World Water Forums in Marrakesh
(1997) and the Hague (2000) and in the increased co-operation among
international agencies, including the programme of co-operation between the
OECD and the WHO. The initiative leading to this report is a first product of
that programme.

     The need to improve assessment and management of the world’s sources
of drinking water was highlighted in 1996 at the OECD Workshop on
Biotechnology for Water Use and Conservation in Cocoyoc, Mexico. Then, in
1998, the OECD Interlaken Workshop on Molecular Technologies for Safe
Drinking Water reviewed the effectiveness of drinking water supply systems in
protecting against microbial contaminants and the reliability of current
monitoring parameters and testing systems. The Interlaken workshop confirmed
the need for better microbial monitoring parameters and methods for assessing
the safety of drinking water and monitoring and responding to adverse events.
Most importantly, given the numbers of pathogens which cannot specifically be
tracked by conventional methods, especially viruses and parasites such as
Cryptosporidium and Giardia, the workshop recommendations pointed out that
“business as usual” was no longer a viable option.

     WHO’s Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality provide a scientific basis
for the development of standards and regulations to protect drinking water
quality and human health. They are used by countries world-wide and are
regularly updated in response to new information and developments. A series of
meetings since 1995 has recommended adoption of a systematic preventive
management approach to the control of microbial risks from catchment to
consumer for drinking water. A framework integrating aspects of risk
assessment and risk management in water safety was developed at a meeting in
Stockholm (1999). The framework harmonises approaches applied to drinking
water, wastewater use and recreational water quality. These include “Water
Safety Plans”, building upon Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP)
and the “multiple barrier principle”. This document (developed by OECD and
WHO) is one in a series of state-of-the-art reviews, which will inform the
process of updating the Guidelines.

     Outdated methods do not effectively identify and prevent serious enteric
waterborne disease, and there is a large and under utilised toolbox for
improving assessment of the safety of drinking water. While the rationale for
using index organisms to detect contamination in source water remains sound,
evaluation of treatment efficacy, post-treatment contamination, etc., require
multiple indicators. No single microbial (or non-microbial) indicator parameter


                                      4
is adequate to determine if all steps in the entire drinking water production
process are working properly in all circumstances. Thus, it is necessary to gain a
better understanding of the role and usefulness of the traditional and new
parameters for monitoring and of the methods available for their analysis, and
of the information needed to initiate appropriate remedial and preventive
actions.

     The Swiss Federal Institute for Environmental Science and Technology
(EAWAG) heeded the call for a major review of the state of knowledge
regarding monitoring parameters and testing methods relevant to the control of
the microbial safety of drinking water. Under the leadership of the Director of
the Institute, Professor Alexander Zehnder, and with the generous support of
EAWAG, an initiative was launched to develop a guidance document to address
such needs, in co-operation with the OECD and the WHO. Responsible for the
co-ordination of this initiative were Dr. Mario Snozzi and Dr. Wolfgang Köster
of EAWAG, Dr. Jamie Bartram of the WHO, Dr. Elettra Ronchi of the OECD
and Dr. Al Dufour of the US Environmental Protection Agency. The successful
outcome of this initiative is due, however, to the exceptional efforts made by the
contributing international experts. The financial support of the Industry Council
for Development (ICD) for review and advance document development is
gratefully acknowledged. The expert editorial assistance of Dr. Lorna Fewtrell
and the secretarial assistance of Alysia Ritter have been invaluable.


Scope of the document

     This guidance document seeks to respond to the need to improve the
assessment and management of the microbiological safety of drinking water, by
moving away from using monitoring simply as a tool to verify the safety (or
otherwise) of the finished product towards using the results as a basis for risk
management actions. End-product testing comes too late to ensure safe drinking
water, owing to the nature of current microbial sampling and testing, which
typically provides results only after water has been distributed and often
consumed. Thus, this document gives guidance on the appropriate application
of monitoring parameters for ensuring the safety of drinking water and to
inform risk management decisions, with an emphasis on control of faecal
contamination. It offers guidance on how to select and use multiple parameters
to meet specific information needs as a support to safe practice throughout the
whole water system: catchment protection and assessment, source water quality
assessment, assessment of treatment efficiency, monitoring the quality of
drinking water leaving the treatment facility and in the distribution system. It
offers a comprehensive review of traditional index and indicator organisms and
of emerging technologies.


                                        5
     The approach described here has elements of both revolution and
evolution. It is revolutionary in that it supports a rapidly emerging approach
which emphasises the need to change from a single indicator organism,
primarily used for end-product monitoring to determine hygienic quality, to
multiple parameters including index and indicator organisms within a broader
integrated management perspective and a risk management framework. It is
evolutionary in that the approach builds upon the multiple barrier approach and
on a body of information gleaned from scientific studies and surveys on the
nature and behaviour of both pathogens and indicator organisms in water
systems and on the relation between indicator organisms and pathogens.

     Chapter 1 sets the scene, describing the problem and establishing the need
for monitoring. It outlines the history of faecal indicator parameters and
describes the various information needs. The use of a range of parameters to
assess the examination of process efficiency and operational integrity is outlined
in Chapter 2. Chapter 3 looks at the use of microbial monitoring in risk
assessment. Chapters 4, 5 and 6 offer guidance on how the wide range of
parameters can be put to use. Chapter 4 describes catchment characterisation
and source water quality assessment, Chapter 5 looks at treatment efficiency
and Chapter 6 examines the use of indicator parameters for monitoring the
quality of drinking water during storage and distribution. Chapter 7 focuses on
the investigation of water during incidents and disease outbreaks, with case
studies illustrating the use of various parameters for specific purposes.
Chapter 8 presents an overview of the various analytical techniques for
determining numbers of faecal index and indicator bacteria as well as selected
pathogens in water samples. It includes conventional and new (principally
molecular biology) techniques and outlines the performance characteristics of
the different methods along with their economic considerations (cost of
infrastructure and consumables, level of training of technical staff).


Challenges for the 21st century

     The document draws attention to important challenges related to the
preservation and management of safe drinking water and particularly the need
to develop a predictive system that will warn that a hazardous situation is
imminent and enable timely and cost-effective correction of the situation.
Perhaps the greatest challenge is the renewed recognition that resurgent and
emerging pathogens with a high resistance to treatment are a significant hazard,
not only in less developed countries, but in countries at all levels of
industrialisation/economic development. Awareness of the existence of such
organisms has developed primarily because of significant localised outbreaks.
The specific aetiologic agent is only identified in about half of the detected


                                        6
outbreaks owing to the lack of appropriate detection methods or the lack of their
application. Application of emerging molecular methods, while perhaps not
appropriate for routine monitoring, are likely to make a significant contribution
in this area.

     The lack of available methodology to detect and quantify many such
organisms, particularly those considered emerging waterborne pathogens, is an
issue of great concern. Clearly, adequate assessment of the impact of such
organisms on health is also directly related to the availability of appropriate
detection methodology. In the post-genomics era, the tools for characterising
microorganisms exist. Both genetic (nucleic-acid-based) and immunological
tools are available and some molecular techniques appear particularly
promising. For example, genotyping, or molecular characterisation, is a
powerful new tool for identifying the source of microbial contaminants and is
already in routine use for detecting Cryptosporidium in some countries. On the
horizon, as Chapter 8 shows, are methods based on microarrays and biosensors.
Advances in semiconductors and computers are expected to allow the next
generation of microbial sensors to be small and simple devices, which are quick
to respond. The future thus holds the promise of new techniques for detecting
both existing and emerging pathogens.

     Many challenges remain in the pursuit of safe drinking water for all.
Resources are needed to increase the usefulness of the new molecular
technologies in the pipeline. Advances in new molecular technologies should be
encouraged and monitored, as they offer the best hope for improved and rapid
detection of microbial contaminants in water.




                                       7
Published on behalf of the World Health Organization and the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development by IWA Publishing, Alliance House,
12 Caxton Street, London SW1H 0QS, UK
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7654 5500; Fax: +44 (0) 20 7654 5555; Email: publications@iwap.co.uk
www.iwapublishing.com

First published 2003
© OECD, WHO 2003

Printed by TJ International (Ltd), Padstow, Cornwall, UK

Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted
under the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1998), no part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, or,
in the case of photographic reproduction, in accordance with the terms of licences issued by the Copyright
Licensing Agency in the UK, or in accordance with the terms of licenses issued by the appropriate
reproduction rights organization outside the UK. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the terms stated
here should be sent to IWA Publishing at the address printed above.

The publisher makes no representation, express or implied, with regard to the accuracy of the information
contained in this book and cannot accept any legal responsibility or liability for errors or omissions that may be
made.

Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reflect the views or policies of the International Water Association, The Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development, or the World Health Organization. IWA, OECD, WHO and the
editors will not accept responsibility for any loss or damage suffered by any person acting or
refraining from acting upon any material contained in this publication.
   In addition, the mention of specific manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are
endorsed or recommended in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors
and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress

ISBN 1 84339 036 1 (IWA Publishing)
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS



Foreword ............................................................................................................. 3

Chapter 1. Safe Drinking Water: An Ongoing Challenge ................................ 11

Chapter 2. Introducing Parameters For The Assessment of
              Drinking Water Quality .............................................................. 47

Chapter 3. Assessment of Risk .......................................................................... 79

Chapter 4. Catchment Characterisation and
             Source Water Quality ............................................................... 111

Chapter 5. Treatment Efficiency..................................................................... 159

Chapter 6. Monitoring the Quality of Drinking Water during
            Storage and Distribution .......................................................... 179

Chapter 7. Surveillance and Investigation of Contamination
             Incidents and Waterborne Outbreaks....................................... 205

Chapter 8. Analytical Methods for Microbiological
             Water Quality Testing............................................................... 237

List of Abbreviations........................................................................................ 293




                                                           9
                                   Chapter 1

        SAFE DRINKING WATER: AN ONGOING CHALLENGE



             G.J. Medema, P. Payment, A. Dufour, W. Robertson,
               M. Waite, P. Hunter, R. Kirby and Y. Andersson




1.1      Introduction

1.1.1    Outbreaks of waterborne disease

      The microbiological quality of drinking water is a concern to consumers,
water suppliers, regulators and public health authorities alike. The potential of
drinking water to transport microbial pathogens to great numbers of people,
causing subsequent illness, is well documented in countries at all levels of
economic development. The outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in 1993 in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in the United States provides a good example. It was
estimated that about 400 000 individuals suffered from gastrointestinal
symptoms due, in a large proportion of cases, to Cryptosporidium, a protozoan
parasite (MacKenzie et al., 1994), although subsequent reports suggest that this
may be a significant overestimation (Hunter and Syed, 2001). More recent
outbreaks have involved E. coli O157:H7, the most serious of which occurred in
Walkerton, Ontario Canada in the spring of 2000 and resulted in six deaths and
over 2 300 cases (Bruce-Grey-Owen Sound Health Unit, 2000). The number of
outbreaks that has been reported throughout the world demonstrates that
transmission of pathogens by drinking water remains a significant cause of
illness. However, estimates of illness based solely on detected outbreaks is
likely to underestimate the problem. A significant proportion of waterborne
illness is likely to go undetected by the communicable disease surveillance and
reporting systems. The symptoms of gastrointestinal illness (nausea, diarrhoea,
vomiting, abdominal pain) are usually mild and generally only last a few days
to a week, and only a small percentage of those affected will see a doctor.


                                       11
Among these, only a minor proportion will have their stools microscopically
examined and the examination usually starts with bacterial food pathogens. The
number of reported outbreaks differs substantially among countries (Stenström,
1994) even from comparable ones, like the Scandinavian countries (Norway,
Sweden, Denmark, Finland). In many cases, this is likely to reflect the
effectiveness of the reporting systems rather than a true difference in the
number (or size) of outbreaks.

      Most sporadic cases of waterborne intestinal illness will not be detected or,
if detected, may not be recognised as water-related. In industrialised countries,
drinking water that meets current water quality standards may still harbour low
concentrations of pathogenic microorganisms. These will cause occasional
illness throughout the community served. It is very difficult to relate these
sporadic cases to drinking water, as they are buried within the endemic level of
disease circulating in the population through other routes of transmission
(person-to-person, food and animal contact). There are, however, data from
epidemiological studies and seroprevalence studies that indicate that endemic
transmission of disease through drinking water does occur (Payment et al.,
1991, 1997; Isaac-Renton et al., 1996).


1.1.2    The disease burden is high

      Several researchers have attempted to estimate the total burden of
waterborne disease world-wide. Huttly (1990) reported a total number of
1.4 billion annual episodes of diarrhoea in children under five years of age, with
an estimated 4.9 million children dying as a result (although these were due to
all causes of diarrhoea and not just water-related cases). While Prüss et
al.,(2002) estimated that water, sanitation and hygiene was responsible for 4.0%
of all deaths and 5.7% of the total disease burden occurring worldwide
(accounting for diarrhoeal diseases, schistosomiasis, trachoma, ascariasis,
trichuriasis and hookworm disease). Clearly, in countries where a large part of
the population does not have access to safe drinking water, a substantial number
of these infections will be waterborne, indeed, Hunter (1997) estimated that
waterborne disease might account for one-third of the intestinal infections
world-wide.

     Waterborne disease is not restricted to developing countries. Morris and
Levine (1995) attempted to estimate the annual waterborne disease burden in
the United States of America and indicated that 560 000 people may suffer from
a moderate to severe waterborne infection and that 7.1 million suffer from a
mild to moderate waterborne infection each year. All waterborne infections may
lead to an estimated 1 200 deaths a year. Even if these rough figures are


                                        12
overestimated, both the health and economic burden are considerable even for
an industrialised society (Payment, 1997).

      The diseases most frequently associated with water are enteric infections
(such as infectious diarrhoea) that are also often associated with food (Mead et
al., 1999). In many cases, the disease is relatively mild and self-limiting.
However, a proportion of the infected population will suffer more severe
outcomes, especially when the health care system is lacking. Several waterborne
pathogens, such as Vibrio cholerae, hepatitis E virus and Escherichia coli
O157:H7, have high mortality rates (Hunter, 1997). In recent cholera outbreaks,
for example, the fatality rate was generally 1-3%, but could be as high as 8-
22%. Hepatitis E virus infections may lead to fulminant fatal hepatitis in 1-2%
of cases, with pregnant women being especially at risk of more severe disease.
Waterborne infections with E. coli O157:H7 are associated with haemorrhagic
colitis and haemolytic uremic syndrome, both serious illnesses, with the latter
occurring particularly in children. The fatality rate in waterborne outbreaks is
0.3-1.6% (Hunter, 1997; Bruce-Grey-Owen Sound Health Unit, 2000).

     In the 1990s, evidence that microbial infections are associated with chronic
disease started to accumulate. Several waterborne pathogens have been
associated with serious sequellae (i.e. severe illness or chronic or recurrent
disease that appears long after the initial exposure to contaminated water).
Examples of sequellae that could potentially be associated with acute
waterborne disease include:

 •   Diabetes, which has been linked to Coxsackie B4 virus (Roivainen et al.,
     2000; Horwitz et al., 1998).
 •   Myocarditis, which has been linked to echovirus (Ferreira Jr. et al., 1995;
     Shanmugam et al., 1986).
 •   Guillian-Barré syndrome associated           with    Campylobacter     spp.
     (Prendergast and Moran, 2000).
 •   Gastric cancer, which has been linked to Helicobacter sp. (Uemura et al.,
     2001).
 •   Reactive arthritis, which has been linked to Klebsiella sp. (Ebringer and
     Wilson, 2000).

     With the exception of Klebsiella, the association of these microbes with
acute waterborne disease has been well established. More remote connections
between waterborne microbes and chronic disease has not been fully
established, but is highly suspected (Hunter, 1997).



                                       13
1.1.3    New pathogens emerge

     Patterns of infection change over time and public health authorities can be
been faced with newly discovered or emerging pathogens that may be able to
overcome the many barriers of the water treatment and distribution systems.
Emerging pathogens are defined as microorganisms which are responsible for
infectious diseases and which have appeared or increased in occurrence during
the past two decades (CDR, 1998). The issue of emerging pathogens came to
the fore in the 1990s when water suppliers were shocked by the discovery of
previously, essentially, unknown microorganisms, which were responsible for a
series of waterborne outbreaks of illness. This is likely to continue into the
future as such emergence or re-emergence has been linked to intensive
agriculture, increased growth and migration of human populations and climate
change (US Department of Health and Human Services, 1998; WHO, 1998).
Examples of enteric waterborne emerging pathogens include caliciviruses,
E. coli O157:H7, Helicobacter sp., Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) and
the protozoa Cryptosporidium sp., Cyclospora sp. and Toxoplasma sp. This
problem requires constant vigilance in terms of what may pose a ‘new threat’
and also constant development with regard to methodologies and techniques for
the detection of such threats. As noted by LeChevallier et al. (1999a),
“knowledge is the first line of defense toward providing safe drinking water.”


1.2      A history of making water safer

     The recognition, in the 1800s that bacteria were agents of disease, along
with the development of bacteriology as a science made it possible to use
bacteria as tools to evaluate water quality and treatment. Essentially, non-
pathogenic, easily detectable microorganisms were used to ‘indicate’ that
contamination had taken place and, as such, there was a risk to public health.
The need to be able to assess water quality, the fact that the majority of
pathogens in drinking water are faecally derived and the ‘moving’ target
presented by pathogens resulted in the idea to measure general levels of faecal
contamination and the birth of the ‘indicator’ concept.

     The presence of heterotrophic bacteria, measured by colony count
following growth on a gelatine medium, has been used since the late 19th
century to monitor general water quality as well as the function and efficiency
of slow sand filtration. Koch (see Box 1.1) postulated that if the effluent of a
slow sand filter contained less than 100 bacteria/ml, the water was suitable for
drinking and presented no risk of cholera or typhoid. A number of findings
paved the way for this development. The book Microorganisms in Water, for



                                      14
example, published by the Franklands in 1894 contained several important
findings, including:

  •   The number of bacteria in water is a measure of pollution, and the number
      of bacteria in seawater, groundwater and lakewater should be below
      100/ml.
  •   Slow sand filtration reduces the number of bacteria from river water by
      more than 90% to below 100/ml.

     The 100 bacteria/ml level became a standard in many European countries
where it was accepted as an attainable objective, while the USA and Canada
adopted a 500 bacteria/ml guideline. Although the level of heterotrophic
bacteria in drinking water is not related to contamination by pathogens, it is still
present in most national laws on drinking water quality as an indicator of the
overall quality of the water (van der Kooij, 1993; Anon, 1999).

               Box 1.1. Preventing disease transmission: the early years
    As early as 400 BC, it was recognised that polluted water was associated with
disease (Whitlock, 1954). The first demonstration that disease was transmitted by water
took place over 2000 years later, when the first cholera pandemics, which originated in
India, struck Europe and resulted in many victims. At the time, it was generally believed
that the disease was spread through bad odours. Preventive measures were taken
against such odours.
    John Snow, a prominent epidemiologist, studied the cholera outbreaks in England.
He found in several cases that sewage or night soil had contaminated the drinking water
in wells from which cholera cases had drawn water. No cases of cholera were found in
families whose water came from uncontaminated wells. In August and September 1854,
a cholera epidemic raged in London, with 500 deaths within a range of 250 yards. By
careful and systematic analysis, Snow observed that the only common factor was the
consumption of water from the Broad Street pump. Two pieces of evidence were telling.
Firstly, a man from Brighton came to visit his brother who was ill with cholera. The
brother had already died and the man stayed at his house for only 20 minutes, but while
he was there he consumed a brandy and water; the next day he died of cholera.
Secondly, a lady who lived in another part of London, but preferred the water from Broad
Street to her local water provided additional evidence. A carrier collected water at the
Broad Street pump and brought it to her house. She and her niece drank the water and
died of cholera within two days. The outbreak started on 31 August, it was thought that
the well was contaminated by a local cesspit that received water from a household where
a baby had developed cholera on 28 August. Snow postulated that transmission of
cholera was due to some “morbid material” in cholera faeces that could contaminate
drinking water and reproduce in the person who drank that water (Snow, 1855).




                                           15
        Box 1.1. Preventing disease transmission: the early years (continued)
    Some 30 years later, Robert Koch developed solid media for the cultivation of some
microorganisms and demonstrated that bacteria were the “morbid material” described by
Snow. He isolated the bacterium that caused cholera from faeces of infected persons
and from water and postulated that consumption of contaminated water could cause
cholera (Koch, 1893). A similar mode of transmission was described for typhoid fever by
William Budd (1873). In 1880, Eberth discovered that typhoid was produced by
Salmonella typhi and four years later Gaffky isolated and cultured the organism
(Edelman and Levine, 1986). Subsequent interest in the role of water in the transmission
of disease initially focused on these two infections.
    The demonstration of the link between faecal contamination of water and the
transmission of typhoid and cholera focused attention at the end of the 19th century on
water quality and the value of its purity. It soon became apparent from several studies
that the use of unpolluted water sources or water treatment significantly reduced the
incidence of disease and mortality, especially in terms of cholera and typhoid. A good
example of which is provided by the Hamburg cholera epidemic of 1892. The city
suffered an epidemic in which more than 17 000 people were affected and some 8 500
(13% of the total population) died. The city used water from the river Elbe for drinking
and the only purification was sedimentation in three reservoirs. The neighbouring city of
Altona used the same river water (with addition of Hamburg’s sewage) but had installed
slow sand filtration. Only a small number of people from Altona contracted cholera, and
most of them commuted to Hamburg (Koch, 1893). A year later, Mills and Reinke
reported improvement in a community’s health after the contaminated source of drinking
water had been replaced by a relatively uncontaminated one (White, 1999).


      Other studies led to the concept of the faecal indicator. In 1885, Escherich
described several microorganisms in the faeces of new-born and suckling
babies. This included a motile, rod-shaped microorganism that could cause milk
to clot, which he named Bacterium coli commune (commonly referred to as
Bacterium or Bacillus coli). He observed that within a few weeks after birth,
this bacterium became the dominant organism in the infant colon. Other
workers showed that microorganisms consistent with Escherich’s description of
Bacterium coli were invariably found in faeces. Schardinger proposed in 1892
that, since Bacterium coli was a characteristic component of the faecal flora, its
presence in water could be taken as “an indication of the presence of faecal
pollution and therefore of the potential presence of enteric pathogens”.


1.2.1     Refinement

     The notion of examining microbial indicators of faecal pollution continued
to be developed. Soon after the description of Bacterium coli, other Gram-
negative, lactose-fermenting bacteria were isolated from stools and water
(Klebsiella in 1882; Aerobacter [now Enterobacter] in 1890). Since 1901, these
bacteria have been grouped under the name coliforms. The coliforms were
defined as Gram-negative, non-spore-forming facultatively anaerobic bacilli


                                           16
that ferment lactose with production of acid and gas within 48 hours at 35ºC.
The definition was based on detection methods that allowed for simple isolation
and enumeration of coliforms. When this methodology was applied, it soon
became apparent that many genera and species that meet the coliform definition
are not, or are only rarely, related to faecal contamination (Geldreich et al.,
1962; Mack, 1977). Under certain conditions they are also able to multiply in
the aquatic environment, thus reducing their value as an indicator of faecal
contamination. Already in 1904, Eijkman adopted modifications in the detection
methodology that included a higher incubation temperature, which improved the
specificity of the indicator. Further modifications of his method have improved
the methodology for detecting these thermotolerant coliforms (also called faecal
coliforms, although this is not a proper description - see Chapter 2). Although
significantly more specific for faecal contamination, this parameter also had
similar shortcomings. It became apparent that other bacteria (mostly Klebsiella),
which meet the criteria for thermotolerant coliforms, originate from non-faecal
environments, such as paper mill or potato-industry wastewater and other high
carbohydrate wastewater (Dufour and Cabelli, 1975).

     It was eventually shown that among the thermotolerant coliforms
Escherichia coli is the preferred microbial indicator of faecal pollution (Dufour,
1977), as it is the only member of the coliform group that is invariably found in
faeces of warm-blooded animals and it outnumbers the other thermotolerant
coliforms in both human and animal excreta. Other microorganisms have been
suggested as microbial indicators of faecal pollution (see Chapter 2), such as
enterococci (previously named faecal streptococci), coliphages and suphite-
reducing clostridial spores.

     Although faecally derived coliforms, thermotolerant coliforms and/or E.
coli have several drawbacks, they have historically been very useful and they
are, undoubtedly, the most commonly used microbial parameters for testing
drinking water quality. Their use has led to significant improvement in the
safety of drinking water world-wide and they have been adopted in the World
Health Organization (WHO) drinking water quality guidelines and all national
drinking water quality standards. One of the main reasons for their success is
the ease of the assay. In contrast with the approach to chemical contaminants of
water, microbiologists soon realised the complexity that would be involved in
trying to assay water for all enteric pathogens. As the common source of these
pathogens was faecal pollution, microbiologists aimed for a universal microbial
indicator of faecal contamination.




                                       17
      The ease and low cost of the assay means that it is possible to test water
bodies frequently. Faecal contamination varies and it is likely that peak
contamination will present the highest health risk. The importance of frequent
testing has long been widely recognised:

        “It is of the utmost importance for the control of the hygienic quality of
        the water supply that the bacteriological examination of both the water
        entering the distribution system and the water in the distribution system
        itself be carried out frequently and regularly” (WHO,1976);

and

        “It is far more important to examine a (water) supply frequently by a
        simple test than occasionally by a more complicated test or series of
        tests” (Anon, 1969).


1.3       Defining the role of the indicator concept

     The traditional role of indicator parameters in drinking water was as an
index of faecal pollution and, therefore, likely health risk (see Box 1.2). The
original microbial parameters were all bacteria that, to a greater or lesser degree,
were derived from faecal contamination. Faecal-oral illness, however, is not
only caused by enteric bacteria but may result from infection with pathogenic
viruses or protozoa. The viruses and protozoa have different environmental
behaviour and survival characteristics to bacteria, which means that faecal
bacteria are not always an adequate indicator of their presence or absence. This
is especially true for disinfected drinking water, as bacteria are very sensitive to
disinfectants while viruses and parasites can be extremely resistant. Thus, the
basic premise that the concentration of indicator organisms should be related to
the extent of faecal contamination and by implication to the concentration of
pathogens and the incidence of waterborne disease can not be maintained
(Pipes, 1982). The roles of the indicator concept, however, are gradually
expanding as is the number of possible indicator parameters. There is now a
need better to define these specific roles such as in source assessment,
validation of the drinking water treatment process, operational and routine
monitoring as well as the traditional verification of the end product (see
Chapter 1.4).




                                        18
                           Box 1.2. Indicator concept and criteria
    Microbial indicators of pollution have been in use for decades. They were originally
developed as measures of faecal pollution of source waters and subsequently the same
organisms were applied to measure efficiency of treatment and post-treatment
contamination and deterioration. Mossel (1978) credited Ingram with recognising the
different roles to which so-called indicators were being applied and proposing that the
term ‘indicator’ should be used for the assessment of treatment process effectiveness,
while ‘index’ should be used for the original role of indicators, that is as a measure of
faecal pollution. The search for microbial faecal indicators was based on several criteria
that were well accepted by the scientific community, but were based on the assumption
that the same organism would serve as both index and indicator. The criteria were:
•   The indicator should be absent in unpolluted water and present when the source of
    pathogenic microorganisms of concern is present.
•   The indicator should not multiply in the environment.
•   The indicator should be present in greater numbers than the pathogenic micro-
    organisms.
•   The indicator should respond to natural environmental conditions and water
    treatment processes in a manner similar to the pathogens of concern.
•   The indicator should be easy to isolate, identify and enumerate.
    Over time, the following criteria have been added to the original list:
•   The test should be inexpensive thereby permitting numerous samples to be taken.
•   The indicator should not be a pathogenic microorganism (to minimise the health risk
    to analysts).
    The detection of pathogenic microorganisms is not normally associated with the
indicator concept, as each pathogen essentially represents only itself and its absence is
not an indication of the absence of other pathogens. The only current usage of a
pathogen that meets the indicator concept is the detection of cryptosporidial oocysts as
an indicator of treatment efficiency in the UK.
    The list of microbial parameters has grown with time and these have been applied to
a variety of environments, although in some instances their application strayed away
from the original concept (i.e. relationship to faecal pollution), with indicators being used
inappropriately.
    Throughout this book, guidance is given on the best use of the various microbial and
non-microbial parameters to fulfil the criteria for specific purposes. These purposes are
outlined below, and in many cases may require the use of more than one microbial
and/or non-microbial parameter.
•   Index (or indicator) of faecal pollution in ambient waters not receiving any treatment
    (including water abstracted for drinking water purposes).
•   Index (or indicator) of faecal pollution of groundwater.
•   Indicator of treatment removal or disinfection efficiency.
•   Indicator of recontamination of treated water within the distribution system.
•   Models for pathogenic microorganisms.




                                             19
                   Box 1.2. Indicator concept and criteria (continued)
     In 1991, Waite reviewed the evolution of water bacteriology and proposed that the
terms ‘index’ and ‘indicator’ should be adopted as originally suggested by Ingram. An
index organism is, thus, any organism whose presence points to the possible occurrence
of pathogenic similar organisms. Whereas an indicator organism is one where its
presence represents a failure of Good Manufacturing Practice affecting the final product.
The concept of index and indicator can be extended to cover non-microbial parameters.
     Since an indicator is used as a surrogate to assess the efficacy of treatment it is
preferable not to use the term in isolation, but in conjunction with what treatment is being
considered (e.g. process indicator, disinfection indicator, turbidity as an indicator of
filtration efficiency). Similarly, the term index may be qualified (e.g. an index of faecal
pollution, conductivity in ground water as an index of deterioration).


1.3.1      Current practice

     The basic idea behind the use of traditional faecal indicator parameters (i.e.
when they are absent, pathogens are absent), while not universally valid, is still
applied and useful today if the parameter is chosen correctly. The most common
uses are for monitoring drinking water at the tap and as it leaves the treatment
works. Despite the shortcomings that have been recognised for some time, in
many jurisdictions this is still done by analysing for the absence of coliforms,
with or without complementary testing for E.coli or thermotolerant coliforms.
Once the water is distributed, a positive coliform test may indicate the presence
of faecal contamination but could also be derived from a non-faecal origin.
Thus, the test that is used as the primary warning of faecal contamination gives
very little information on the presence or absence of a health risk. Confirmation
of the faecal origin is embedded in most regulations and requires testing for
thermotolerant coliforms or E. coli. WHO (1993) indicates that E. coli is the
parameter of choice for monitoring drinking water quality (with thermotolerant
coliforms as an alternative). Enterococci and sulphite-reducing clostridia are
also used as additional parameters of faecal contamination or to monitor the
integrity of the distribution or storage system. Less common is their use to
classify the source water, with the level of treatment to produce safe drinking
water being set accordingly (more details on the use of indicator parameters for
specific purposes is given in Chapter 2).

     The major problem, in terms of public health protection is that (for the
most part) monitoring the safety of drinking water is reactive, in the sense that
any event or breakdown in the system can occur many hours and sometimes
days, before it is detected by monitoring for any of the microbial parameters.
This is related to both the nature of the microbial testing, which currently
requires at least a day to produce a result, and also to the monitoring strategy,
which has traditionally focussed on water as it leaves the treatment works and
on the distribution system.


                                            20
1.3.2    New challenges

     While the use of (thermotolerant) coliforms and enterococci as indices of
faecal pollution has proved successful in preventing the spread of waterborne
cholera and typhoid, in the 1960s a new challenge to public health was
identified. It was increasingly recognised that enteric viruses, such as hepatitis
A and other enteroviruses, could also be transmitted through drinking water
(Anon, 1999). Viral contamination of water also originates from pollution with
human excreta, but the nature of viruses is very different from that of bacteria.
They are much smaller and therefore less likely to be removed during filtration
or soil passage and their resistance to disinfection is typically greater. The
occurrence of outbreaks of viral illnesses associated with drinking water
meeting the coliform standards indicated that coliforms were an inadequate
parameter to assess the virological quality of treated drinking water (Berg and
Metcalf, 1978; Petrilli et al., 1974; Melnick and Gerba, 1982). Water
microbiologists sought suitable alternative microbial parameters and found
several groups of viruses that infect bacteria, known as bacteriophages (phages),
which have a similar size and also structure characteristics to human pathogenic
viruses. These were suggested as being appropriate models for the potential
presence of viruses and for their survival and behaviour in the environment, as
well as their removal and inactivation by water treatment and disinfection
processes (Grabow et al., 1984; Havelaar et al. 1993).

      More recently, a further challenge was identified with the outbreaks of
intestinal illness due to the protozoa Giardia sp. and Cryptosporidium sp. As
with viruses, outbreaks have occurred without any indication, from the coliform
testing, that water quality was compromised (Barrell et al., 2000). It was
recognised that the failure of the coliform bacteria standard was due to the more
robust nature of the protozoa to disinfection, resulting in inactivation of the
indicator bacteria but not the viral and protozoan pathogens. Spores of the
bacterium Clostridium perfringens and sulphite-reducing clostridia, which are
also known to be robust and resistant to disinfection have been proposed as
alternative microbial parameters for such protozoa. Other indicator parameters
that have been suggested to assess treatment efficiency for the removal of
pathogens are aerobic spores (Chapter 2, USEPA, 2000).

     As mentioned earlier, a drawback to the current use of microbial
parameters, in terms of public health protection, is the reliance on end-product
monitoring. End-product monitoring cannot always safeguard health but acts to
verify (or not) the effectiveness of the treatment barriers. This can provide
important management information (see Chapter 7) and is a useful check, which
will determine any performance deficiency and also allow an assessment of any



                                       21
corrective procedures. Its main purpose, therefore, is to verify the efficiency of
treatment and disinfection and detect post-treatment contamination.

      While traditional microbial parameters have proved useful and still have an
important role to play, monitoring of different aspects of the supply chain as
well as possible health effects requires the use of different applications of
traditional microbial parameters, different parameters and different approaches.
There are two major initiatives that move to address this challenge:

 •    The development of water safety plans (see Box 1.3).
 •   The assessment of risk at all stages between catchment and consumer
     (Figure 1.1).

      Figure 1.1. “Catchment to consumer” approach to risk management of
                          the safety of drinking water



      Know your
      catchment



      Know your
                                Control the                Protect your
     source water
                                 treatment                  distribution
        quality


                                                               Safe
                                                          drinking water


     In addition, the development of rapid testing and molecular techniques for
microbial parameters and pathogen detection (Chapter 1.5) may play a
supporting role, particularly in risk assessment (Chapter 3) and outbreak
investigation. For example, molecular techniques have, in a number of cases,
allowed the identification of the source of contamination in waterborne
outbreaks (Chapter 7).




                                       22
1.4      Emergence of a new paradigm: “Due diligence”

     The concept of due diligence, which means the prevention of foreseeable
harm at reasonable cost, takes a significant step in changing the “reactive and
sanctioning” paradigm under which suppliers (including water suppliers)
operate. Demonstration of due diligence requires showing that all reasonable
measures have been taken in advance to prevent the occurrence of negative
health consequences. Thus, when a potentially adverse event is identified, a
precautionary approach should be used. One such approach, which came out of
the space programme in the 1960s, is HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point), illustrated in Figure 1.2, which has been adapted for drinking
water use and incorporated in ‘Water Safety Plans’ (Box 1.3 and Figure 1.3).

               Figure 1.2. Steps in the development of a HACCP Plan

                              (Adapted from Deere et al., 2001)

                    Assemble the HACCP Team
                              Team

                         Describe the product
                               Product

                         Identify intended use
                                   Use

                       Construct flow diagram
                             Diagram

                 On-site confirmation of low diagram               Preliminary steps


                                                                   HACCP Principles
                      List all potential hazards
                      Conduct hazard analysis
                     Determine control measures
                               Measures

               Determine critical control points (CCP)
                               Points

                 Establish critical limits for each CCP
                                  CCP

            Establish a monitoring system for each CCP
                                CCP

       Establish corrective action for deviations that may occur
                                 Occur

                  Establish verification procedures
                             Procedures

            Establish record keeping and documentation




                                                  23
                 Box 1.3. Water safety plans for drinking water supply
    The basis of ensuring water safety has five key components:
1. Water quality targets based on public health protection and disease prevention.
2. System assessment to determine whether the water supply chain (up to the point of
     consumption) as a whole can deliver water of a quality that meets the defined
     targets.
3. Monitoring the steps in the supply chain that are of particular importance in securing
     safe drinking water.
4. Management plans describing actions to be undertaken from normal conditions to
     extreme events.
5. Systematic independent surveillance that verifies that the above are operating
     properly.
    The management plans developed by water suppliers can be best termed a Water
Safety Plan (WSP). The control of microbiological and chemical quality of drinking water
requires the development of WSPs which, when implemented, provide the basis for
process control to ensure pathogen and chemical loads are acceptable. Implicit within
this process is that a tolerable disease burden has been identified at national and local
levels and that water quality targets have been established for each type of technology
used.
    The delivery of ‘safe’ water, therefore, involves actions by a variety of stakeholders,
as illustrated in Figure 1.3.
    Water quality targets should be set to improve public health. Water suppliers have a
basic responsibility to provide safe water and would be expected to undertake actions
meeting points 2–4 above. The final component would normally be fulfilled by a
regulatory body, which may in practice be the health, environment of local government
sectors. All these processes are important in the delivery of good drinking water quality
and are the subject of other texts linked to the WHO Guidelines for Drinking water
Quality.




                                            24
   Figure 1.3. Protecting public health through ensuring drinking water quality

                               (Davison et al., 2002)




        Public health                 Institutional
         policy and                  commitment to
            risk                      high quliaty                Training, good
        management                    water supply                 hygiene, risk
                                                                  communication




                                      Water safety
                                         plans
            Health-based
                                     developed and
            water quality
                                      implemented
         targets set, led by
                                        by water
          the health sector
                                        suppliers

                                                                   Design and
                                                                  construction of
                                                                  water supplies
                                                                  and integrated
                                                                  water resource
                                       Control of                  management
                                        disease
                                      derived from
                                      poor drinking
                                      water quality




      In a drinking water application, HACCP is a source-to-tap system.
Microbial safety is safeguarded through knowledge of the (variations in) quality
of the source water, control of the treatment process and the integrity of the
distribution or storage system. No single microbial (or non-microbial)
parameter is adequate to determine if all steps in this system are working
properly in all circumstances. Chapters 2, 4, 5 and 6 outline which parameters
are most appropriate at each stage. The resulting data can be integrated into risk
assessment models (quantitative or qualitative) or be used to complement
epidemiological methods, as outlined in Chapter 3.




                                        25
1.5      Direct pathogen testing

     The discovery and characterisation of a significant number of
gastrointestinal pathogens led to the development of a wide array of new
methods to detect and identify them (Anon, 1999; Hurst et al., 2001). In
addition, methods for concentrating these pathogens from natural waters were
developed in the 1970s and 1980s and applied to waters potentially
contaminated by faecal pollution. Results indicate that viruses (Payment and
Armon, 1989; Grabow et al., 2001) and parasites (LeChevallier et al., 1991)
may still be present in otherwise apparently safe drinking water. This, together
with the recognition that illness can be associated with drinking water that
meets regulatory safety standards indexed by traditional bacterial parameters
(Payment et al., 1991, 1997), raised questions about the safety of drinking water
(LeChevallier et al., 1999 a,b). The United States of America extended the
principle of “pathogen-free water” to a goal of zero level of pathogens, while
recognising that, in reality, this implied a judgement on the level of treatment
necessary to achieve minimal or tolerable risk. To determine these treatment
goals, a survey of source water was conducted using standardised methods to
obtain data on pathogen occurrence. The data revealed the difficulties
associated with such testing even for gathering data on occurrence (Chapter 4;
Rosen and Ellis, 2000; Allen et al., 2000).

     In the United Kingdom, testing for Cryptosporidium oocysts became
mandatory at some sites (established on the basis of a risk assessment). The UK
approach requires continuous sampling of a proportion of treated water as it
leaves the treatment works, in view of the fact that spot sampling for pathogens
would be liable to miss treatment deficiencies of short duration. Data from the
current monitoring programme are used to verify compliance with a treatment
standard of removal of oocysts to less than one oocyst in ten litres of treated
water (HMSO, 1999).

      In addition to what is required by regulations, a number of water suppliers
have initiated some form of direct pathogen testing (Allen et al., 2000).
Pathogen testing can be a useful tool for sanitary surveys of catchment areas, for
setting treatment goals, for laboratory or pilot-scale demonstration of the
efficacy of existing or new water treatments and for investigation of outbreaks.
In general, pathogen testing helps to sharpen practices for providing safe
drinking water, and detection of (viable) pathogens in drinking water is a strong
trigger for remedial action. Pathogen testing can be done in addition to standard
monitoring, but it is not a simple monitoring tool. The methodological
constraints require that a clear idea as to what is to be achieved by the exercise
should be formulated prior to undertaking pathogen testing (Havelaar, 1993)
and subsequent results should be interpreted with caution. Low levels of enteric


                                       26
viruses and protozoan parasitic cysts have been found in drinking water in the
absence of reported outbreaks (Gerba and Rose, 1990; Payment and Armon,
1989). This could be related to a lack of infection, mis-identification, acquired
immunity or asymptomatic infections (Allen et al., 2000; Issac-Renton et al.,
1994; Gerba and Rose, 1990; Payment et al., 1991, 1997). Experience in
Sydney (Australia) and Wyoming (USA), shed some light on the public,
political, economic and legal implications of such findings even in the absence
of any detectable health effects (Allen et al., 2000). These cases show that
unless it is known how to interpret the results and an emergency plan is in place
to react to a positive result, the reaction may be inappropriate.

    Methods for detecting pathogens in water are mostly still in the
developmental stage (Chapter 8):

 •   Their sensitivity is still poor. The methods for detecting the pathogen are
     usually very sensitive, but because of the low level of pathogens in water,
     large volumes need to be analysed and as the detection methods can only
     effectively process small volumes a pre-concentration step must be
     undertaken.
 •   Only a few of the multitude of possible pathogens are currently
     detectable. Given that water may contain hundreds of different pathogens,
     and these may vary over time, the question of which pathogens to look for
     remains. Pathogen testing methods are relatively specific and will not
     detect all pathogens present. Molecular methods, coupled with high
     throughput parallel processing and bio-informatics, hold the promise of
     detecting a wider range of microorganisms, but are not yet practicable.
     One suggestion has been to search for the most significant pathogen as an
     indicator of treatment efficiency. The United Kingdom has adopted this
     approach and tests for Cryptosporidium oocysts in treated water from
     selected water treatment works.
 •   Analysis of water samples for pathogens requires a specialised laboratory,
     highly trained personnel and appropriate bio-safety containment. In
     industrialised countries few laboratories outside the clinical setting meet
     these requirements, and in many other countries such facilities do not
     exist. Pathogen testing may require growing and manipulating pathogens,
     thus the potential risk to analysts needs to be taken in consideration.
 •   Although some pathogens can be tested rapidly, most pathogen sampling
     and detection methods still have a time-to-(verified)-result of several days.
     Pathogen testing of treated water, therefore, does not escape the problems
     identified with end-product testing using traditional bacterial parameters,
     i.e. they signal that something is wrong after the problem has occurred.


                                       27
     These methodological limitations advocate the use of great care in the
interpretation of results from pathogen testing. Any positive result may indicate
water unsafe to drink and can be used to estimate the level of risk to consumers.
Positive results should be used only in a well-managed, risk-based decision-
making process. Negative results should always be viewed with some
scepticism given the large number of possible pathogens and should not be used
as an excuse for complacency.

      Levels of pathogen testing may vary from simple occasional tests or
planned experiments to routine monitoring of source water as well as treated
water. However, if pathogen testing is included among the parameters, it is
important that this is not done at the expense of essential basic monitoring. If
pathogen testing is considered acceptable, where should it be done? Pathogen
testing for an initial sanitary survey of source water is well accepted. After
treatment at the waterworks, samples should be negative for infective
pathogens, but what volume should be tested? How many samples should be
taken to ensure that they are statistically representative? Familiarity with water
treatment indicates that what is most to be feared is transient, short-lived
failures of the system, which are difficult to detect. Given the high cost of
pathogen testing – and this will not change in the near future – is the cost of
routine pathogen testing justified? A good set of microbial and non-microbial
parameters is probably more cost-effective.

     Analysis of samples of distributed water presents a similar challenge. The
objective is to detect recontamination of the water in the distribution system.
How many samples should be taken, where should they be taken and for what
pathogens? A good indicator of recontamination or disinfectant demand is
probably more cost-effective as data can be obtained inexpensively for a large
number of samples.


1.5.1    Dose-response relationships for pathogens

     Determination of the effect of exposure to (different levels of) pathogenic
microorganisms (i.e. dose-response functions) has allowed the design of a risk-
based approach (Chapter 3), analogous to that taken against the risk of toxic
chemicals in drinking water. Because the complete absence of pathogens in
drinking water (zero risk) cannot currently be assured, this criterion has been
replaced by the definition of an acceptable or tolerable risk level (Hunter and
Fewtrell, 2001). Such a risk-based approach was developed by North American
researchers in conjunction with the US Environmental Protection Agency
(Haas, 1983; Rose and Gerba, 1991; Regli et al., 1991). In this approach, a risk
level of one infection per 10 000 persons per year is regarded as the acceptable


                                       28
maximum for pathogens in drinking water. This was based on findings that
during each reported waterborne outbreak of giardiasis, at least 0.5 % of the
population (i.e. 50 or more per 10 000 people) were infected. Because public
water supplies should provide greater protection from waterborne disease, water
treatment should ensure less than one case of microbial illness per year per
10 000 people as a reasonable goal (USEPA, 1989). Giardia was chosen as the
target organism because it is more resistant to disinfection than most other
pathogens (Regli et al., 1993). This approach has been adopted or is being
considered by a number of countries. In the Netherlands, for example,
guidelines have been issued for maximum acceptable pathogen concentrations
in drinking water, based on the 10-4 infection risk level.


1.5.2    Molecular technologies

      Currently (for the most part) microbial parameter detection involves
sampling and filtration followed by cultivation of the chosen microorganism on
selective media and then colony counting or, in some cases, the demonstration
of growth (e.g. presence-absence tests) – a process that can take 24 to 72 hours
and may not pick up a number of microorganisms. The last two decades of the
20th Century, however, saw the development of molecular biology and the
promise for rapid testing (less than eight hours). This resulted in techniques,
such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), for the rapid, sensitive and specific
detection of index/indicator microorganisms and pathogens. In the field of
health-related water microbiology, this has allowed the development of
detection methods for non-culturable viruses, such as Norwalk-like viruses.
While the conventional Cryptosporidium detection methods do not discriminate
between human-pathogenic and non-pathogenic oocysts, the specificity of PCR
and subsequent verification methods (hybridisation, sequencing) have allowed
much more specific detection of pathogenic species or genotypes within
Cryptosporidium (see Chapter 7). Rapidity is another characteristic of PCR and
related molecular technologies (see Chapter 8). Several researchers have
developed PCR techniques for the rapid detection of E. coli and coliforms,
which make detection possible within several hours (Bej et al., 1991; Fricker
and Fricker, 1994).

     One of the challenges for molecular methods is to assess the
viability/infectivity of the detected microorganisms, as currently they detect the
presence of a nucleic acid sequence, which may have originated from a dead
organism or even from DNA that has not been decomposed in the aquatic
environment. Culture techniques provide this information as only viable
microorganisms are detected. Several techniques or combinations of techniques
are now available to overcome the viability/infectivity problem. Examples are


                                       29
the use of inducible mRNA as target for RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase –
polymerase chain reaction) or use of viability/infectivity methods to ‘pre-
culture’ the target organism prior to PCR detection, such as the cell culture PCR
method for Cryptosporidium and viruses (Chapter 8; Spinner and DiGiovanni,
2001), although pre-culture increases the overall assay time.

     The taxonomy of microorganisms is now primarily based on genotyping,
rather than on phenotypic characteristics. This genetic taxonomy allows the
rapid characterisation and comparison of genotypes. This has been useful in
investigations of outbreaks to determine the similarity of isolates from patients
and suspected outbreak sources and in tracking the sources of contamination of
a watershed or drinking water (Chapter 7; Kuhn et al., 2000).

     Advances in computer, chip, laser and optical technology have provided,
and are providing, new opportunities for the detection and identification of
microorganisms. New equipment has been used primarily in the research area,
but several technologies are currently used in practice, such as flow cytometry
and cell sorting, confocal laser scanning microscopy and laser scanning. Many
methods are now being developed but, as yet, all are expensive as the
equipment capital investment is high. One interesting development is the
combination of computer chip technology and molecular microbiology, which
should allow automated testing of multiple pathogens with a single DNA chip
array (Chapter 8). The introduction of these technologies may allow rapid
automated detection of (pathogenic or index/indicator) microorganisms in the
near future.

     The challenges that remain for these new methods are:

 •   Quantification. The quantitative aspects need to be improved as current
     molecular methods are, at best, only semi-quantitative.
 •   Infectivity. The viability and infectivity of the detected microorganisms is
     still uncertain.
 •   The “concentration issue”. Detection of (especially pathogenic) micro-
     organisms in water requires assaying large volumes (0.1-100 litres or
     more), while the new technologies currently work with small volumes
     (0.00001-0.001 litres). This requires concentration methods that introduce
     recovery losses.
 •   The skills and novel infrastructure issue (both in personnel training and
     equipment). Further implementation of these technologies in practice
     ideally requires further simplification and also automation.



                                       30
 •      Cost. The cost is still high and currently not amenable to frequent daily
        testing within the budget constraints of small water suppliers.


1.6        Information needs

     The provision of safe drinking water is rarely the concern of a single body
and in addition to the water supplier is likely to involve national, regional
and/or local government, water authorities and public health authorities. In
some cases, such as catchment control, there may be international involvement.

       Traditionally, the main reason for monitoring water quality has been to
verify whether the observed water quality is suitable for an intended use (in this
case human consumption). Understanding the reasons for data collection
(i.e. the purposes of the monitoring) helps to ensure that the data collected are
appropriate for the management uses for which they are intended (Bartram and
Helmer, 1996; Makela and Meybeck, 1996). The different information needs
are described below.


1.6.1      Regulation

     Many agencies, including the WHO (WHO, 1976, 1997) identify two
complementary roles in drinking water monitoring: quality control by the
supplier and independent surveillance by the regulatory body. There is an
evident complementarity between them, but the merging of the two is
inappropriate because of the conflict of interests that would emerge.
Nevertheless, in recent years experience with increased data sharing, generation
of data by third parties and audit-based approaches has begun to accumulate and
contributes to minimising duplication of effort. Where regulation is based upon
monitoring and analysis, it does not typically mimic the requirements of the
water supplier but can be proactive and can single out problems, such as the
areas of distribution most likely to cause problems or known to be problematic.

     The regulatory agency is ultimately responsible for determining the
required level of safety of drinking water. It does so by setting water quality
standards and ensuring that water suppliers meet them. While requirements vary
widely from country to country, compliance is generally based on standards
(such as the European Community Directive 98/83/EC; Anon, 1998; WHO,
1993) that are intended to protect public health. Standards are typically
specified in terms of sampling frequency and distribution (at fixed and/or
variable points) in relation to the population supplied and/or high-risk points.
Parameters typically include simple physical and chemical tests (disinfectant


                                        31
residual, turbidity, etc.) and relatively frequent monitoring, with less frequent
microbiological testing for indicators of faecal pollution (and sometimes other
microbiological parameters) with specific follow-up requirements when
standards are not met.

      These standards clearly aim to limit the transmission of infectious disease
through drinking water but they also influence the allocation of community
resources to drinking water treatment. Drinking water is only one of the vectors
of enteric infectious diseases. To be able to optimise the allocation of available
resources to protection of drinking water, the regulator requires information on
the contribution of drinking water to the overall disease burden of the
population. At the next level of detail, policy makers require information about
the most important threats to the safety of drinking water so that they can focus
risk management options on the most relevant threats (Fewtrell and Bartram,
2001). For example, a system with a relatively high risk of post-treatment
contamination should primarily focus on reducing this risk, rather than on the
efficiency of source protection or on treatment.


1.6.2    Water supplier

     Water suppliers require information on the microbiological quality of their
source water. Information on the contamination level of source water is the
basis for the design of an adequate treatment system. Information on sources of
pollution in the catchment area of abstraction sites gives both an indication of
the level of contamination that may be expected and potential risk events (such
as heavy rainfall leading to agricultural run-off). A catchment survey will also
yield information on opportunities for catchment control. This may not be the
domain of water suppliers, but allows them to choose between installing
treatment barriers or trying to implement source protection measures. In the
design phase, a catchment survey will aid in the selection of the best site for
abstraction (Chapter 4).

     A water supplier also needs to know the efficiency of the treatment
processes in eliminating microorganisms; initially, in the design phase, to be
able to design an adequate treatment system and subsequently, in the production
phase, to ensure its adequate operation. In the latter phase, detailed information
on the elimination of microorganisms during the different operational phases
may help to optimise the efficiency of treatment processes (Chapter 5;
LeChevailler and Au, 2002).

    To determine if a treatment is adequate and drinking water is safe, a water
supplier also needs water quality targets (Box 1.3; Fewtrell and Bartram, 2001).


                                       32
In the risk-based approach, water quality targets should be derived from a
tolerable risk level. Water quality targets are usually set by national authorities,
which should decide on the tolerable risk level and derive the water quality
targets that result in compliance with this risk level. In the risk-based approach,
targets could also be a maximum concentration of a pathogen but these are
generally not intended to be a measured target.

      For process operation, water suppliers rely on process parameters such
as coagulant dose. To ensure that treatment is eliminating microorganisms
adequately every hour of the day, they need information on the relationship
between the operational parameters and the elimination of microorganisms
(Chapter 5; LeChevallier and Au, 2002). Finally, the company/agency that
distributes the water to the consumer needs information about the water-quality
changes that occur during distribution so as to be able to detect and respond to
any unacceptable deterioration of water quality (see Chapter 6 and Ainsworth,
2002).


1.6.3     Public health agencies

     In most countries, public health agencies are no longer directly responsible
for the management of water supply and distribution systems. Because of this,
very few public health specialists will expect to see routine water quality data
on a regular basis. On the other hand, most public health surveillance will be
directed at detecting cases of infection in the community. Should outbreaks be
detected that implicate the water supply, review of routine water quality
monitoring data will be part of the subsequent outbreak investigation (see
Chapter 7). Screening of the water supply for pathogens may also be undertaken
in any investigation.

     The most notable pathogen-monitoring scheme for a public water system,
as mentioned previously, was introduced in the UK for Cryptosporidium. In
England and Wales, it is now a criminal offence to supply water containing
 100 Cryptosporidium oocysts/1 000 litres and supplies deemed to be at high
risk have to be monitored continually (HMSO,1999). The standard chosen was
based on operational rather than public health grounds and relating counts to
public health risk has been difficult (Hunter, 2000).

     With an overall responsibility towards public health, interest and indeed
responsibility does not end at the quality of water leaving the water treatment
works. Indeed, most public health interest may concern occurrences after the
water supply enters the household and marginal or disadvantaged populations
where no formal supply agency exists. Small community and particularly rural


                                        33
water supplies are especially problematic and are of concern in countries at all
levels of socio-economic development. While factors such as parameter
selection may not be very different for such areas, overall approaches to
monitoring are extremely problematic and innovative approaches are required
for effective action (Bartram, 1998; Chapter 6).

     Investigation of events of public health concern may be triggered by
disease surveillance, data from water suppliers or others undertaking monitoring
or through informal means. Since the effects are delayed, such investigation
presents special problems and is an area where newer analytical methods, such
as those outlined in Chapter 1.5.2, may make a particular contribution. This
aspect is addressed further in Chapters 7 and 8.


1.7      The new approach: Total System Approach to Risk Management

     The combination of these developments is leading towards a risk-based
approach to ensure the safety of drinking water (see Box 1.3). Traditionally,
drinking water was regarded as safe when monitoring of the treated water did
not show the presence of coliforms in daily samples of drinking water. In
quantitative risk assessment, the safety of drinking water is demonstrated by
collecting quantitative information on quality of the source water, efficiency of
treatment and integrity of the distribution system. This has the benefit of
providing water suppliers and relevant agencies with insight into the level of
consumer protection and providing information on the strengths and weaknesses
of the systems installed to protect drinking water quality. End-product
monitoring remains important for long term verification of the control system.

      A long-established principle in drinking water risk management is not to
rely on a single barrier against pathogenic microorganisms, but to use a multiple
barrier approach. This implies not only multiple barriers in water treatment, but
a more encompassing approach from source to the consumer’s tap (see Figure
1.1). As suggested above, in order to design an effective risk management
strategy, information is required on:

 •    Sources of contamination in the catchment area. This would also include
      the relative contribution of these sources to the overall contamination
      level. Knowledge of the nature, location and contribution made by
      individual sources of contamination means that it is possible to predict
      peak events and to determine effective catchment control measures.
 •    Microbiological quality of the source water and its variation. The quality
      of the source water, both under average conditions and during peak


                                       34
     events, determines the required level of treatment. Information on the
     level of contamination at the abstraction point can be used to design
     appropriate treatment systems and to design operational procedures to
     deal with most eventualities.
 •   Efficiency of the water treatment process in eliminating microorganisms
     and its variation. Information is required on the effectiveness of different
     treatment processes (as unit process and in combination with other
     processes) in eliminating pathogens (Haas, 1999; USEPA, 1991).
 •    Sources and risk of post-treatment contamination.

     Such considerations are essentially the risk management components of an
even larger framework or approach, where consideration is also given to
tolerable risk, water quality targets and public health status, as illustrated in
Figure 1.4.

                     Figure 1.4. Decision-making framework

                        (Adapted from Bartram et al., 2001)




                                        35
      Although some index/indicator parameters can serve multiple purposes, no
single parameter can fill all the information needs. Later chapters give guidance
on the application of parameters for specific information needs: catchment
protection, source water quality assessment, assessment of treatment efficiency,
monitoring the quality of drinking water leaving the treatment facility and in the
distribution system. The emphasis is on their use for demonstrating the safety of
drinking water and as basis for risk management decisions.


1.8      Summary

      Drinking water that contains pathogenic microorganisms may cause illness
and, as such, it is important to have some measure (or measures) that establishes
whether it is safe to drink. For the most part there are too many different
pathogens to monitor and as the majority of pathogens are derived from faecal
material the idea of using non pathogenic bacteria as an index of faecal
pollution was developed. Initially only a few such parameters were used, but
now there are more techniques and methodologies available. It is possible to
monitor a wide range of index/indicator parameters (microbial and non-
microbial) and also pathogens and there is a move towards using a variety of
different parameters throughout the water production process and, indeed, a
catchment to consumer approach to water safety plans. New methods are
constantly being developed, ranging from increased pathogen detection to more
real-time microbial and non-microbial parameter monitoring. The development
of new and improved methodologies, along with the need for vigilance with
regard to emerging hazards, results in the need for frequent re-evaluation of the
best approaches and indicator parameters.




                                       36
                               REFERENCES



Ainsworth, R.A. (2002) Water quality changes in piped distribution systems.
     World Health Organization.

Allen, M.J., Clancy, J.L. and Rice, E.W. (2000) Pathogen monitoring – old
      baggage from the last millennium. Journal of the American Water Works
      Association 92(9), 64-76.

Anon (1969) Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects No. 71. Her
     Majesty’s Stationery Office, London.

Anon (1998) European Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the
     quality of water intended for human consumption.

Anon (1999) Waterborne Pathogens. AWWA Manual of Water Practices, M48.
     American Water Works Association, Denver, Colorado.

Barrell, R.A.E., Hunter, P.R. and Nichols, G. (2000) Microbiological standards
      for water and their relationship to health risk. Communicable Disease and
      Public Health 3(1), 8-13.

Bartram, J. and Helmer, R. (1996) Introduction. In: Water Quality Monitoring.
      A practical guide to the design and implementation of freshwater quality
      studies and monitoring programmes. Bartram, J. and Balance, R. (Eds.)
      E & FN Spon, London. pp. 1-8.

Bartram, J., Fewtrell, L. and Stenström, T-A. (2001) Harmonised assessment of
      risk and risk management for water-related infectious disease: an
      overview. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health.
      Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related infectious
      disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp.
      1-16

Bartram, J. (1998) Effective monitoring of small drinking water supplies. In:
      Providing Safe Drinking water in Small Systems. Cotruvo, J., Craun, G.



                                      37
      and Hearne, N. (Eds.) Lewis Publishers, Boca Raton, Florida. pp. 353-
      366.

Bej, A.K., Dicesare, J.L., Haff, L. and Atlas, R.M. (1991) Detection of
      Escherichia coli and Shigella spp. in water using the polymerase chain
      reaction and gene probes for uid. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 57, 1013-1017.

Berg, G.T. and Metcalf, T. (1978) Indicators of viruses in waters. In: Indicators
      of Viruses in Water and Food. Ann Arbor Science.

Bruce-Grey-Owen Sound Health Unit (2000) The investigative report on the
      Walkerton outbreak of waterborne gastroenteritis.
      http://www.publichealthbrucegrey.on.ca/private/Report/SPReport.htm

Budd, W. (1873) Typhoid fever: its nature, mode of spreading and prevention.
      Longmans, London. 193 pp.

CDR (1998) Emerging pathogens and the drinking water supply. CDR Weekly
     8(33), 292.

Davison, A., Howard, G., Stevensm M., Callan, P., Kirby, R., Deere, D. and
     Bartram, J. (2002) Water Safety Plans. WHO/SHE/WSH/02/09 World
     Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

Deere, D., Stevens, M., Davison, A., Helm, G. and Dufour, A. (2001)
      Management Strategies. In: Water Qulaity: Guidelines, Standards and
      Health. Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related
      infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing,
      London. pp. 257-288.

Dufour, A.P. (1977) Escherichia coli: the fecal coliform. In: Bacterial
     indicators/health hazards associated with water. Hoadley, A.W. and
     Dutka, B.J. (Eds.) ASTM, Philadelphia. pp. 48-58.

Dufour, A.P. and Cabelli, V.J. (1975) Membrane filter procedure for
     enumerating the component genera of the coliform group in seawater.
     Applied Microbiology 26, 826-833.

Ebringer, A. and Wilson, C. (2000) HLA molecules, bacteria and
      autoimmunity. Journal of Medical Microbiology 49(4), 305-311.




                                       38
Edelman, R. and Levine, M.M. (1986) Summary of an international workshop
     on typhoid fever. Reviews of Infectious Disease 8, 329-349.

Eijkman, C. (1904) Die Gärungsprobe bei 46°C als Hilfsmittel bei der
     Trinkwasseruntersuchung. Cbl. Bakteriol. Abth I. Orog. 37, 742-752.

Escherich, T. (1885) Die Darmbakterein des Neugeborenen und Säuglings.
      Fortschritte der Medecin 3, 515 and 547.

Ferreira Jr., A.G., Ferreira, S.M., Gomes, M.L. and Linhares, A.C. (1995)
       Enteroviruses as a possible cause of myocarditis, pericarditis and dilated
       cardiomyopathy in Belem, Brazil. Brazilian Journal of Medical and
       Biological Research 28(8), 869-874.

Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (2001) Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and
      Health. Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related
      infectious disease. IWA Publishing, London, UK.

Frankland, P. and Frankland, P. (1894) Microorganisms in Water; Their
      Significance, Identification and Removal. Longmans, Green & Co.,
      London, UK.

Fricker, E.J. and Fricker, C.R. (1994) Application of polymerase chain reaction
      to the identification of Escherichia coli and coliforms in water. Letters in
      Applied Microbiology 19(1), 44-46.

Geldreich, E.E., Huff, C.B., Bordner, R.H., Kabler, P.W. and Clark, H.F. (1962)
      The faecal coli-aerogenes flora of soils from various geographical areas.
      Journal of Applied Bacteriology 25, 87-93.

Gerba, C.P. and Rose, J.B. (1990) Viruses in source and drinking water. In:
     Drinking Water Microbiology: Progress and Recent Developments.
     McFeters, G.A. (Ed.). Springer-Verlag, New York, USA.

Grabow, W.O.K., Coubrough, P., Nupen, E.M. and Bateman, B.W. (1984)
     Evaluation of coliphages as indicators of virological quality of sewage-
     polluted water. Water SA 10(1), 7-14.

Grabow, W.O.K., Taylor, M.B. and de Villiers, J.C. (2001) New methods for
     the detection of viruses: call for review of drinking water quality
     standards. Water Science and Technology 43(12), 1-8.




                                        39
Haas, C.N. (1999) Disinfection. In: Water Quality and Treatment: A Handbook
      of Community Water Supplies. Fifth Edition. Letterman, R.D. (Ed.)
      McGraw-Hill, New York, USA. pp.14.1-14.6.

Haas, C.N. (1983) Estimation of risk due to low doses of microorganisms: a
      comparison of alternative methodologies. American Journal of
      Epidemiology 118, 573-582.

Havelaar, A.H., van Olphen, M. and Drost, Y.C. (1993) F-specific RNA
     bacteriophages are adequate model organisms for enteric viruses in fresh
     water. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 59, 2956-2962.

Havelaar, A.H. (1993) The place of microbiological monitoring in the
     production of safe drinking water. In: Safety of Water Disinfection.
     Balancing chemical and microbial risks. Craun G.F. (Ed.) ILSI press,
     Washington, DC.

HMSO (1999) The Water Supply (Water Quality) (Amendment) Regulations
    199, Statutory Instrument 1999 No. 1524. Her Majesty’s Stationery
    Office, London.

Horwitz, M.S., Bradley, L.M., Harbertson, J., Krahl, T., Lee, J. and Sarvetnick,
     N. (1998) Diabetes induced by Coxsackie virus: initiation by bystander
     damage and not molecular mimicry. Nat. Med. 4(7), 781-785.

Hunter, P.R. and Fewtrell, L. (2001) Acceptable risk. In: Water Quality:
     Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of risk and risk
     management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
     Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp.207-227.

Hunter, P.R. and Syed, Q. (2001) Community surveys of self-reported diarrhoea
     can dramatically overestimate the size of outbreaks of waterborne
     cryptosporidiosis. Water Science and Technology 43, 27-30.

Hunter, P.R. (1997) Waterborne Disease. Epidemiology and Ecology, John
     Wiley and Sons, Chichester, United Kingdom.

Hunter, P.R. (2000) Advice on the response to reports from public and
     environmental health to the detection of cryptosporidial oocysts in treated
     drinking water. Communicable Disease and Public Health 3, 24-27.




                                       40
Hurst, C.J., Knudsen, G.R., McInerney, M.J., Stetzenbach, L.D. and
      Walter, M.V. (2001) Manual of Environmental Microbiology, 2nd Edition.
      American Society for Microbiology Press, Washington, DC.

Huttly, S.R.A. (1990) The impact of inadequate sanitary conditions on health in
      developing countries. World Health Statistics Quarterly 43,118-126.

Isaac-Renton, J., Moorhead, W. and Ross, A. (1996) Longitudinal studies of
      Giardia contamination in two adjacent community drinking water
      supplies: cyst levels, parasite viability and health impact. Applied and
      Environmental Microbiology 62, 47-54.

Issac-Renton, J., Lewis, L., Ong, C. and Nulsen, M. (1994) A second
      community outbreak of waterborne giardiasis in Canada and serological
      investigation of patients. Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical
      Medicine and Hygiene 88, 395-399.

Koch, R. (1893) Ueber denaugenblicklichen stand der bakeriologischen Cholera
      diagnose. Zeitschift für Hygiene XIV, 319.

Kuhn, I., Iversen, A., Burman, L.G., Olsson-Liljequist, B., Franklin, A., Finn,
     M., Aerestrup, F., Seyfarth, A.M., Blanch, A.R., Taylor, H., Capllin, J.,
     Moreno, M.A., Dominguez, L. and Mollby, R. (2000) Epidemiology and
     ecology of enterococci, with special reference to antibiotic resistant
     strains, in animals, humans and the environment. Example of an ongoing
     project within the European research programme. Internal Journal of
     Antimicrobial Agents 14(4), 337-342.

LeChevallier, M.W. and Au, K.K. (2002) Water treatment for microbial control:
     A review document. World Health Organization.

LeChevallier, M.W., Abbaszadegan, M., Camper, A.K., Hurst, C.J.,
     Izaguirre, G., Marshall, M.M., Naumovitz, D., Payment, P., Rice, E.W.,
     Rose, J., Schaub, S., Slifko, T.R., Smith, D.B., Smith, H.V.,
     Sterling, C.R. and Stewart, M. (1999a) Committee report: Emerging
     pathogens – bacteria. Journal of the American Water Works Association
     91(9),101-109.

LeChevallier, M.W., Abbaszadegan, M., Camper, A.K., Hurst, C.J.,
     Izaguirre, G., Marshall, M.M., Naumovitz, D., Payment, P., Rice, E.W.,
     Rose, J., Schaub, S., Slifko, T.R., Smith, D.B., Smith, H.V.,
     Sterling, C.R. and Stewart, M. (1999b) Committee report: Emerging



                                       41
      pathogens - viruses, protozoa, and algal toxins. Journal of the American
      Water Works Association 91(9),110-121.

LeChevallier, M.W., Norton, W.D. and Lee, R.G. (1991) Giardia and
     Cryptosporidium spp. in filtered drinking water supplies. Applied and
     Environmental Microbiology 57(9), 2617-2621.

Mack, W.N. (1977) Total coliform bacteria. In: Bacterial Indicators/Health
     Hazards Associated with Water. Hoadley, A.W. and Dutka, B.J. (Eds.)
     ASTM, Philadelphia, pp. 59-64.

MacKenzie, W.R., Hoxie, N.J., Proctor, M.E., Gradus, M.S., Blair, K.A.,
    Peterson, D.E., Kazmierczak, J.J., Addiss, D.G., Fox, K.R., Rose, J.B.
    and Davis, J.P. (1994) A massive outbreak in Milwaukee of
    Cryptosporidium infection transmitted through the public water supply.
    New England Journal of Medicine 331(3), 161-167.

Makela, A. and Maybeck, M. (1996) Designing a monitoring programme. In:
     Water Quality Monitoring. Bartram, J. and Balance, R. (Eds.) E&FN
     Spon, London, pp. 35-59.

McFeters, G.A. (1990) Drinking Water Microbiology. Springer-Verlag,
     New York.

Mead, P.S., Slutsker, L., Dietz, V., McCraig, L.F., Bresee, J.S., Shapiro, C.,
     Griffin, P.M. and Tauxe, R.V. (1999) Food-related illness and death in
     the United States. Emerging Infectious Diseases 5(5), 607-625.

Melnick, J.L. and Gerba, C.P. (1982) Viruses in surface and drinking waters.
     Environmental International 7, 3-7.

Morris, R.D. and Levine, R. (1995) Estimating the incidence of waterborne
      infectious disease related to drinking water in the United States. In:
      Assessing and Managing Health Risks from Drinking Water
      Contamination: Approaches and Applications. Reichard, E.G.,
      Zapponie, G.A. (Eds.) IAHS Press, Wallingford, Oxfordshire,
      United Kingdom, pp. 75-88.

Mossel, D.A.A. (1978) Index and indicator organisms: a current assessment of
     their usefulness and significance. Food Technology, Australia 30, 212-
     219.




                                       42
Payment, P. (1997) Epidemiology of endemic gastrointestinal and respiratory
     diseases – incidence, fraction attributable to tap water and costs to
     society. Water Science and Technology 35, 7-10.

Payment, P. and Armon, R. (1989) Virus removal by drinking water treatment
     processes. CRC Critical Reviews in Environmental Control 19, 15-31.

Payment, P., Richardson, L., Siemiatycki, J., Dewar, R., Edwards, M. and
     Franco, E. (1991) A randomized trial to evaluate the risk of
     gastrointestinal disease due to consumption of drinking water meeting
     currently accepted microbiological standards. American Journal of Public
     Health 81, 703-708.

Payment, P., Siemiatycki, J., Richardson, L., Renaud, G., Franco, E. and
     Prévost, M. (1997) A prospective epidemiological study of
     gastrointestinal health effects due to the consumption of drinking water.
     International Journal of Environmental Health Research 7, 5-31.

Petrilli, F.L., Crovari, P., DeFlora, S. and Vannucci, A. (1974) The virological
       monitoring of water. I. Drinking water. Boll. Ist. Seiroter, Milan 53, 434-
       442.

Pipes, W.O. (1982) Indicators and water quality. In: Bacterial Indicators of
       Pollution. Pipes W.O. (Ed.). CRC Press, Boca Raton. pp. 83-96.

Prendergast, M.M. and Moran, A.P. (2000) Lipopolysaccharides in the
      development of the Guillain-Barré syndrome and Miller Fisher syndrome
      forms of acute inflammatory peripheral neuropathies. Journal of
      Endotoxin Research 6(5), 341-359.

Prüss, A., Kay, D., Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (2002) Estimating the burden of
       disease due to water, sanitation and hygiene at global level.
       Environmental Health Perspectives IN PRESS.

Regli, S., Berger, P. and Macler, B. (1993) Proposed decision tree for
       management of risks in drinking water: consideration for health and
       socioeconomic factors. In: Safety of Water Disinfection: Balancing
       Chemical and Microbial Risks. Craun G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press, Washington,
       D.C. pp. 39-80.

Regli, S., Rose, J.B., Haas, C.N. and Gerba, C.P. (1991) Modelling the risk
       from Giardia and viruses in drinking water. Journal of the American
       Water Works Association 83(11), 76-84.


                                        43
Roivainen, M., Rasilainen, S., Ylipaasto, P., Nissinen, R., Ustinov, J., Bouwens,
      L., Eizirik, D.L., Hovi, T. and Otonkoski, T. (2000) Mechanisms of
      coxsackievirus-induced damage to human pancreatic beta-cells. Journal
      of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 85(1), 432-440.

Rose, J.B. and Gerba, C. (1991) Use of risk assessment for development of
      microbial standards. Water Science and Technology 24(2), 29-34.

Rosen, J. and Ellis, B. (2000) The bottom line on the ICR Microbial data. Paper
     ST6-3 In: Proceedings of AWWA Water Quality Technology Conference
     2000. Salt Lake City, Utah.

Schardinger, F. (1892) Ueber das Vorkommen Gahrung Errengeneder
      Spaltpilze im drinkwasser und ihre Bedeutung for die Hygienishe
      Beurthelung Desselben. Wien. Klin. Wochschr. 5, 403-405.

Shanmugam, J., Raveendranath, M. and Balakrishnan, K.G. (1986) Isolation of
     ECHO virus type-22 from a child with acute myopericarditis – a case
     report. Indian Heart Journal 38(1), 79-80.

Snow, J. (1855) On the Mode of Communication of Cholera. John Churchill,
     London.

Spinner, M.L. and DiGiovanni, G.D. (2001) Detection and identification of
      mammalian reoviruses in surface water by combined cell culture and
      reverse transcription – PCR. Applied and Environmental Microbiology
      67(7), 3016-3020.

Stenström, T.A. (1994) A review of waterborne outbreaks of gastroenteritis in
      Scandinavia. In: Water and Public Health. Golding, A.M.B., Noah, N.
      and Stanwell-Smith, R. (Eds.) Smith-Gordon & Co., London. pp. 137-
      143.

Uemura, N., Okamoto, S., Yamamoto, S., Matsumura, N., Yamaguchi, S.,
    Yamakido, M., Taniyama, K., Sasaki, N. and Schlemper, R.J. (2001)
    Helicobacter pylori infection and the development of gastric cancer. New
    England Journal of Medicine 345(11), 784-789.

US Department of Health and Human Services (1998) Preventing emerging
     infectious diseases: A strategy for the 21st century. US Department of
     Health and Human Services, Atlanta, Georgia.




                                       44
USEPA (1991) Guidance Manual for Compliance with Filtration and
    Disinfection Requirements for Public Water Systems using Surface Water
    Sources. US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC.

USEPA (1989) National Primary Drinking Water Regulations: filtration,
    disinfection, turbidity, Giardia lamblia, viruses, Legionella, and
    heterotrophic bacteria; Final Rule (40 CFR Parts 141 and 142). Federal
    Register 54(124).

USEPA (2000) National Primary Drinking Water Regulations: Long term I
    enhanced surface water treatment and filter backwash rule (40 CFR Parts
    141 and 142). Federal Register Proposed Rule 65(69).

van der Kooij (1993) Importance and assessment of the biological stability of
      drinking water in the Netherlands. In: Safety of Water Disinfection:
      Balancing Chemical and Microbial Risks. Craun, G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press,
      Washington, DC. pp. 165-179.

Waite, W.M. (1991) Drinking water standards – a personal perspective. In:
      Proceedings of the UK Symposium on Health-related Water
      Microbiology. Morris R. et al. (Eds.). International Association for Water
      Pollution Research and Control, London. pp 52-65.

White, G.C. (1999) Handbook of Chlorination. John Wiley & Sons Inc. New
     York.

Whitlock, E.A. (1954) The waterborne diseases of microbiological origin. Paper
      presented at the Annual Conf. of the Nat. Assoc. of Bath Superintendents
      1954, Anderson Ltd, Stepney Green, United Kingdom.

WHO (1976) Surveillance of Drinking water Quality, World Health
    Organization, Geneva.

WHO (1993) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Volume :,
    Recommendations. Second Edition. World Health Organization, Geneva.
    Second Edition.

WHO (1997) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Volume 3: Surveillance
    and Control of Community Supplies. Second Edition. World Health
    Organization, Geneva. Second Edition

WHO (1998) Emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Fact sheet no. 97.
    (http://www.who.int/inf-fs/en/fact097.html).


                                       45
                                    Chapter 2

      INTRODUCING PARAMETERS FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF
                DRINKING WATER QUALITY



                      P. Payment, M. Waite and A. Dufour




 Note: Inspiration and some text from World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines
        (WHO, 1996; 1997) have been used for the preparation of this chapter.


2.1       Introduction

     Chapter 1 introduced the index and indicator concept and outlined a
number of microorganisms (and groups of microorganisms) that have been
adopted in the quest to determine whether or not drinking water is
microbiologically safe to drink. This chapter examines the range of both
microbial and non-microbial parameters and briefly outlines their uses and
applications. It is intended to act as an introduction to the parameters that can be
used to assess drinking water quality and further details on their use in specific
areas can be found in subsequent chapters.

      The early impetus behind the bacteriological examination of drinking
water was to determine whether water as consumed was contaminated. Much
water consumed received no treatment and such treatment as was applied was
mainly intended to improve aesthetic quality. At that time what was required
was what is now referred to as an Index organism, although the term Indicator
was generally applied. It has since been recognised that microbial parameters
can provide useful information throughout the drinking water production
process, including catchment survey, source water characterisation, treatment
efficiency and examination of the distribution system. Adopting the index and
indicator terminology as advocated by Waite (1991) and briefly outlined in
Chapter 1, index organisms can give a measure of the amount of faecal
pollution in a water source, whereas indicator parameters may be used to give


                                        47
information on the effectiveness with which specific groups of microorganisms
have been removed or inactivated by treatment processes, with their presence
after treatment indicating that pathogens may still be present. For example, the
presence of spores of sulphite-reducing clostridia or bacteriophages in treated
drinking water suggests that highly persistent microorganisms may have
survived, while colony counts of aerobic heterotrophic bacteria or direct
microscopic counts can provide information on the availability of nutrients in
the water, which may result in aesthetic problems or in the presence of
opportunistic pathogens.

      Although many waterborne pathogens can now be detected (and, indeed, a
number are outlined in this chapter) the methods for their detection are often
difficult to implement, relatively expensive, and time-consuming. Furthermore,
the original logic behind the indicator (now index) concept still holds true, in
that a range of pathogens may be shed into water from the faecal matter of
infected people and animals, and there are enteric pathogens as yet
unrecognised. As such, it is neither practicable nor recommended to examine
water for every known pathogen that might be present. Examination of finished
waters for pathogens will only permit confirmation that consumers have been
exposed to the pathogens whereas examination for non-pathogenic organisms as
an index of faecal pollution or an indicator of adequacy of treatment permits
recognition of the potential for pathogens to be present without the need for
their actual presence. This chapter describes the index/indicator parameters and
highlights those that are best suited to a range of purposes (which are explored
further in subsequent chapters), with the main thrust being towards minimising
faecal-oral disease transmission.


2.2      Microbial parameters

     This section outlines microbial parameters used to assess drinking water
quality, examining the most appropriate uses, ease of analysis and some of the
implications and responses relating to finding a positive sample. Characteristics
such as speed of measurement, technical difficulty of the assay, microbial
environmental survival and resistance to treatment are summarised at the end of
the Section in Table 2.1, while Table 2.2 summarises the applicability and
suitability of each parameter for assessing source water, treatment efficiency
and so on.

     A number of documents contain detailed information on taking samples for
analysis of microbial parameters and their storage and transportation (WHO,
1997; Anon, 1994; APHA, AWWA, WEF, 1998), however, there are several
key points that are summarised below:


                                       48
 •      Care should be taken that the samples are representative of the water
        examined. This has implications in terms of the location and construction
        of the sampling points, the frequency of sampling and also the aseptic
        technique employed by the sampler.
 •      If the sample contains disinfectant (such as chlorine, chloramine, chlorine
        dioxide or ozone) sterile sodium thiosulphate should be included in the
        sample container in order to neutralise any residual. The concentration of
        the residual disinfectant and the pH at the sampling point should be
        determined at the time of collection.
 •      In order to minimise changes in the microbial content, samples should not
        be exposed to light and should be rapidly cooled to between 4-10°C.
        WHO and UNEP recommend that if samples can not be cooled they
        should be examined within two hours of sampling (Bartram and Ballance,
        1996). Examination of cooled samples should begin as soon as possible
        after collection, ideally within six hours, with 24 hours being considered
        the absolute maximum (WHO, 1997; Bartram and Ballance, 1996).

     Further details on sampling can be found in Chapter 6.

     Internationally accepted methods of analysis for the microbial parameters
discussed in this chapter can be found in a number of sources, including Anon
(1994) and APHA, AWWA, WEF (1998). The International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) also prepares and publishes methods (see Chapter 8).

      Most of the microbial parameters discussed below are common in the
environment and can easily be introduced in the course of sampling or analysis.
It is therefore advisable to be cautious in the response to their detection in a
single sample of treated water in the absence of supporting factors such as
treatment problems, risks pointing to recontamination in distribution or lack of
residual chlorine. Their detection in the presence of supporting factors, in
associated samples, or on re-sampling, however should be taken as strong
evidence that the quality of the water in supply has been compromised.


2.2.1      The coliform group

      The coliform group is made up of bacteria with defined biochemical and
growth characteristics that are used to identify bacteria that are more or less
related to faecal contaminants. The total coliforms represent the whole group,
and are bacteria that multiply at 37ºC. The thermotolerant coliforms are bacteria
that can grow at a higher temperature (44.2ºC) and Escherichia coli is a
thermotolerant species that is specifically of faecal origin.


                                         49
      A finding of any coliform bacteria, whether thermotolerant or not, in water
leaving the treatment works requires immediate investigation and corrective
action. There is no difference in the significance of total coliforms,
thermotolerant coliforms and E. coli in water leaving a treatment works, as they
all indicate inadequate treatment, and action should not be delayed pending the
determination of which type of coliform has been detected. Upon detection in a
distribution system, investigations must be initiated immediately to discover the
source of the contamination.

     Total coliforms: Coliform organisms, better referred to as total coliforms
to avoid confusion with others in the group, are not an index of faecal pollution
or of health risk, but can provide basic information on source water quality.
Total coliforms have long been utilised as a microbial measure of drinking
water quality, largely because they are easy to detect and enumerate in water.

     They have traditionally been defined by reference to the method used for
the group’s enumeration and hence there have been many variations dependent
on the method of culture. In general, definitions have been based around the
following characteristics: Gram-negative, non-spore-forming rod-shaped
bacteria capable of growth in the presence of bile salts or other surface-active
agents with similar growth-inhibiting properties, oxidase-negative, fermenting
lactose at 35-37ºC with the production of acid, gas, and aldehyde within 24-48
hours. These definitions presume the use of cultural methods for identification
and enumeration. There has recently been a move towards a genotypic
definition based on the recognition that in order to ferment lactose, organisms
must possess β-galactosidase activity. Using this approach total coliforms are
defined as members of a genus or species within the family Enterobacteriaceae
capable of growth at 37ºC and possessing β-galactosidase.

      Traditionally, total coliforms were regarded as belonging to the genera
Escherichia, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, and Klebsiella. However, regardless of
the definition adopted, the group is heterogeneous. It includes many lactose-
fermenting bacteria, such as Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacter freundii,
which can be found in both faeces and the environment (nutrient-rich waters,
soil, decaying plant material) as well as in drinking water containing relatively
high concentrations of nutrients. It also includes members of genera such as
Budvicia and Rahnella, which are never found in mammalian faeces.

      Because total coliforms of non-faecal origin can exist in natural waters,
their presence can occasionally be tolerated in unpiped or untreated water, in the
absence of more specific index parameters. Where it can be demonstrated that
coliforms in water are not faecally derived and are, thus, of no sanitary
significance, expenditure to achieve their eradication may be considered


                                       50
unnecessary and many standards require only absence of total coliforms from
95% of samples from within distribution systems. However, if used as an
indicator of treatment efficiency, total coliform bacteria should not be
detectable in water leaving a treatment works and in such cases their detection
should provoke immediate investigation and corrective action.

     They are detectable by simple, inexpensive cultural methods that require
basic routine bacteriology laboratory facilities, but well-trained and competent
laboratory workers. They pose very little risk to the health of laboratory workers
given good standards of laboratory hygiene.

     Thermotolerant (‘faecal’) coliforms: The term ‘faecal coliforms’,
although frequently employed, is not correct: the correct terminology for these
organisms is ‘thermotolerant coliforms’. Thermotolerant coliforms are defined
as the group of total coliforms that are able to ferment lactose at 44-45°C. They
comprise the genus Escherichia and, to a lesser extent, species of Klebsiella,
Enterobacter, and Citrobacter. Of these organisms, only E. coli (covered in the
next section) is considered to be specifically of faecal origin, being always
present in the faeces of humans, other mammals, and birds in large numbers and
rarely, if ever, found in water or soil in temperate climates that has not been
subject to faecal pollution (although there is the possibility of regrowth in hot
environments, Fujioka et al., 1999).

      Thermotolerant coliforms other than E. coli may originate from organically
enriched water such as industrial effluents or from decaying plant materials and
soils. In tropical and subtropical waters, thermotolerant coliform bacteria may
occur without any obvious relation to human pollution and have been found on
vegetation in the tropical rainforest. This means that the occurrence of the
thermotolerant coliform group in subtropical or tropical waters or those
enriched with organic wastes does not necessarily suggest faecal contamination
by humans. However, their presence in treated waters should not be ignored, as
the basic assumptions that pathogens may be present and that treatment has
been inadequate still hold good.

     Thermotolerant coliforms are a less reliable index of faecal contamination
than E. coli although, under most circumstances and especially in temperate
areas, in surface water their concentrations are directly related to E. coli
concentrations. Their use for water-quality examination is therefore considered
acceptable when no other method is available. However, as methods for the
simultaneous detection of thermotolerant coliforms and of E. coli are available,
these methods should be preferred.




                                       51
     Thermotolerant coliforms are easily detectable and a variety of
internationally standardised methods and media for their detection are available
(ISO 9308-1: ISO 9308-2). These methods require basic routine bacteriology
laboratory facilities and well-trained and competent laboratory workers. They
should pose very little risk to the health of laboratory workers given good
standards of laboratory hygiene.

     Escherichia coli: Escherichia coli is a taxonomically well defined member
of the family Enterobacteriaceae, and is characterised by possession of the
enzymes β-galactosidase and β-glucuronidase. It grows at 44-45ºC on complex
media, ferments lactose and mannitol with the production of acid and gas, and
produces indole from tryptophan. However, some strains can grow at 37ºC but
not at 44-45ºC, and some do not produce gas. E. coli does not produce oxidase
or hydrolyse urea. Complete identification of the organism is too complicated
for routine use, but a number of tests have been developed for rapid and reliable
identification with an acceptable degree of accuracy. Some of these methods
have been standardised at international and national levels (e.g. ISO 9308-1;
ISO 9308-2) and accepted for routine use, others are still being developed or
evaluated.

      E. coli is abundant in human and animal faeces, and in fresh faeces it may
attain concentrations of 109 per gram. It is found in sewage, treated effluents,
and all natural waters and soils subject to recent faecal contamination, whether
from humans, wild animals, or agricultural activity. It has been suggested that
E. coli may be present or even multiply in tropical waters not subject to human
faecal pollution (Fujioka et al., 1999). However, even in the remotest regions,
faecal contamination by wild animals, including birds, can never be excluded
and this suggestion requires further investigation. Because animals can transmit
pathogens that are infective in humans, the presence of E. coli must not be
ignored, because, as with the presence of thermotolerant coliforms, the
presumption remains that the water has been faecally contaminated and that
treatment has been ineffective.

     E. coli is widely preferred as an index of faecal contamination. It is also
widely used as an indicator of treatment effectiveness although, as with the
other coliform indicators, it is more sensitive to disinfection than many
pathogens (in particular viruses and protozoa). The detection of E. coli in water
leaving a treatment works is of the same significance as any other coliform
organism, but its absence does not necessarily indicate that pathogens have been
eliminated.




                                       52
     Because E. coli is indicative of recent faecal contamination, with any
positive finding consideration should be given to whether steps need to be taken
to protect consumers. In the event of more than one related sample containing
E. coli, or the recognition of other significant features such as treatment
aberrations, the issue of advice to boil water intended for drinking may be
considered appropriate (see Chapter 7). However, in many instances it may be
acceptable to restrict the response to the taking of additional samples and
sanitary inspection in order to assist interpretation of the initial results. If the
water is a treated piped supply, a positive sample suggests that a failure or
ingress has occurred, such as a breakdown in disinfection, treatment before
disinfection has failed, or contaminated water has entered the system.
Immediate action must, therefore, be taken to discover the source of
contamination and to take appropriate steps (which will depend on the level of
contamination) to protect consumers until the problem is resolved.

     E. coli is detectable by simple, inexpensive cultural methods that require
basic routine bacteriology laboratory facilities, but require well-trained and
competent laboratory workers. It can pose a health risk for laboratory workers
as some strains of this organism are pathogenic.


2.2.2     Enterococci and faecal streptococci

     Chain forming gram-positive cocci used to be placed in the genus
Streptococcus and faecal streptococci were those streptococci generally present
in the faeces of humans and animals. All possess the Lancefield group D
antigen. A sub-group of the faecal streptococci, which is relatively tolerant of
sodium chloride and alkaline pH, have been grouped under the genus
Enterococcus. Most of the Enterococcus species are of faecal origin and can
generally be regarded as specific indices of human faecal pollution for most
practical purposes.

     Faecal streptococci are more resistant to stress and chlorination than E. coli
and the other coliform bacteria. Although both faecal streptococci and
enterococci remain in use as monitoring parameters in drinking water,
enterococci appear likely to supplant faecal streptococci as the parameter of
choice as they are clearly of faecal origin from warm blooded animals.
Enterococci, as an index of faecal pollution, can also be used to complement E.
coli in catchment assessment, in tropical climates (where E. coli is less
appropriate because of the suspicion of multiplication) and in ground water
source evaluation. Enterococci can also serve as an additional indicator of
treatment efficiency. They are highly resistant to drying and thus may be
valuable for routine control after new mains are laid or distribution systems are


                                        53
repaired, or for detecting pollution of groundwater or surface waters by surface
run-off. In the UK they have been used to assess the significance of doubtful
results from other organisms (Gleeson and Gray, 1997).

     Enterococci are detectable by simple, inexpensive cultural methods that
require basic routine bacteriology laboratory facilities, but require well-trained
and competent laboratory workers. They could pose a health risk for laboratory
workers as some strains of these bacteria are pathogenic.


2.2.3    Ratios of counts

      The ratio of counts of thermotolerant coliforms and faecal streptococci has
been proposed as a means of differentiating between contamination from human
and animal sources. Ratios of thermotolerant coliforms to faecal streptococci
greater than four have been suggested to indicate a human source whereas ratios
less than 0.7 indicate an animal source. These ratios are highly variable. They
may vary according to the number of sources, are often site specific, differ with
the effects of wastewater disinfection and the age of the contamination (due to
the different survival rates of different Enterococcus species). All of these
factors have a marked effect on the ratios. This ratio is therefore no longer
recommended as a means of differentiating sources of pollution. The same
applies to most ratios obtained for index, indicator and pathogenic
microorganisms.


2.2.4    Direct total counts and activity tests (total and viable bacteria)

     Quantification of the total numbers, viability or activity of microorganisms
can be useful in assessing the general microbial content of water, its general
cleanliness, the integrity of distribution systems and so on. However, these
methods generally have little direct sanitary significance. Most direct tests are
targeted to general microbial populations rather than faecal microorganisms.

     Direct counts of bacteria can provide basic information on the numbers of
bacteria in water during abstraction and treatment. Using vital stains, the
viability of individual organisms can be assessed. More complex techniques can
be used to provide information on serotype and genetic content. Very large
numbers of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria are present in water and only a very
small proportion can be grown on artificial media such that direct assays can be
considered more representative.




                                       54
     Microscopic tests are performed by filtration on membrane filters and
bacteria are stained with vital or non-vital stains. The tests require a very good
microscope, but are not difficult to perform and can be done at relatively low
cost. However, the limited sanitary significance of the results mean that these
tests are generally only employed as part of research studies. Automated
scanning instruments and flow cytometers can be used to determine total and
viable counts more rapidly than by manual microscopy (see Chapter 8). These
methods, however, are more expensive and complex than simple microscopic
methods.

     Assays for microbial metabolism can also be employed to assess general
microbial levels. These can use sensitive chemical measures such as the
determination of adenosine triphosphate (ATP – a high-energy phosphate
carrier found in all living organisms) and are used for assessing microbial levels
in food and pharmaceuticals. Being simple and rapid they could potentially be
used in the testing of water. However, as they assess general microbial level and
not faecal contamination they are of limited sanitary significance and, as such,
are not used in routine monitoring.


2.2.5     Heterotrophic aerobic and aerobic spore-former bacterial counts

     Colony counts of heterotrophic aerobic bacteria (often referred to as
heterotrophic plate counts – HPC) and aerobic spore-former (mainly Bacillus
spp.) bacteria can be used to assess the general bacterial content of water. They
do not represent all the bacteria present in the water, only those able to grow
and produce visible colonies on the media used and under the prescribed
conditions of temperature and time of incubation. Colony counts are generally
determined following incubation at 22°C and 37°C to assess bacteria that may
be unrelated to faecal pollution. They are of little sanitary significance, but may
be useful in the long-term assessment of the efficiency of water treatment,
specifically the processes of coagulation, filtration, and disinfection, where the
objective is to keep counts as low as possible. While actual counts are of limited
value, changes from counts normally found at particular locations may warn of
significant developments. They may also be used to assess the cleanliness and
integrity of the distribution system and the suitability of the water for use in the
manufacture of food and drink products, where high counts may lead to
spoilage.

     Cultural methods used for counting heterotrophic aerobic bacteria can be
adapted to count only spores by exposing samples to temperatures of 70–80 ºC
for ten minutes before culturing. Counts of aerobic spore-forming bacteria
before and after a treatment are useful in evaluating treatment effectiveness,


                                        55
whether removal or disinfection. They have been proposed as surrogates for the
removal of cysts of parasitic protozoa but their value in this respect is as yet
unproven.

     Heterotrophic bacterial counts are provided by simple, inexpensive cultural
methods that require basic routine bacteriology laboratory facilities and can be
performed by relatively unskilled persons. They are not an index of faecal
pollution but provide basic information on culturable bacteria and their
viability. They are not generally considered to be a health risk for laboratory
workers, although certain HPC organisms are thought to be opportunistic
pathogens.


2.2.6      Bacteriophages

     Bacteriophages (also known simply as phages) are viruses that only infect
bacteria. Some bacteriophages are comparable in size and behaviour to human
enteric viruses and they are relatively easy to detect and enumerate (see
Chapter 8). Various groups and types of bacteriophage, particularly those of
coliform bacteria (coliphages) and those of Bacteroides spp., have been
proposed as indices of faecal pollution (and possible enteric virus presence) and
as indicators of treatment efficiency for both water and wastewater-treatment
processes. Leclerc (2000) has reviewed the literature on the use of
bacteriophages and concludes that they have significant limitations as indices of
faecal pollution and enteric viruses. However, other published evidence
indicates that bacteriophages have potential value as indices of faecal
contamination and indicators of treatment effectiveness (Sobsey et al., 1995;
Grabow, 2001).

     Coliphages: Coliphages are divided here into two groups, both of which
occur in sewage and faecally polluted water, where they generally outnumber
human viruses. However, the frequency of occurrence of coliphages in human
and animal faeces varies, and sometimes they are detected in faeces at only low
frequencies. In this respect, coliphages differ from bacterial indices of faecal
contamination.

 •      Somatic coliphages. These infect host strains via cell wall (somatic)
        receptors and are frequently detected in human and animal faeces. The
        host normally used is E.coli. The bacteriophages (coliphages) detected by
        currently used E. coli hosts are relatively host-specific and most coliphage
        isolates do not infect other bacterial species, including species that may
        occur naturally in the aqueous environment. It is possible, but unlikely,
        that somatic coliphages occur unrelated to faecal pollution. However, their


                                         56
     usefulness as an index of faecal pollution and enteric viruses is limited by
     inadequate knowledge of their natural history. They may, when present in
     raw waters, be a suitable index of faecal contamination and an indicator of
     virus inactivation and removal during treatment.
 •   F-specific RNA bacteriophages (male-specific coliphages). These infect
     bacteria through the F- or sex-pili. Although they are only present in the
     faeces of a small proportion of people, they are commonly found in high
     numbers in sewage. They have been used primarily as an index of sewage
     contamination and, because of their relatively high persistence and
     similarity to viruses, as an additional indicator of treatment efficiency or
     for groundwater protection. There are two groups of F-specific
     coliphages, those containing RNA and those containing DNA and both
     groups are found in human and animal faecal wastes. The F-specific RNA
     coliphages are similar in size, shape and basic composition to many
     human enteric viruses (single-stranded RNA surrounded by a protein coat)
     such as astroviruses, caliciviruses and hepatitis A and E viruses. There are
     four major subgroups of F-specific RNA coliphages. Because there is
     some evidence that the occurrence of these groups differs between
     humans and other animals, it may be possible to distinguish human from
     animal contamination by grouping the F-specific RNA coliphages isolated
     from faecally contaminated waters (Hsu et al., 1995).

      Bacteroides phages: Bacteroides spp. outnumber the coliform group in
human faeces (Gleeson and Gray, 1997), with Bacteroides fragilis being the
most commonly found species. They are strict anaerobes and they have not been
shown to multiply in the environment. Bacteriophages of Bacteroides have been
proposed as an index of faecal pollution as they are considered to be more
resistant to natural inactivation and water treatment processes than bacterial
indicators and have a decay rate similar to that of human enteric viruses. The
draw-backs, however, are that their densities in raw waters may be low
(requiring concentration from large volumes) and the methods of detecting them
in water are currently not very reliable.

     Coliphages are detectable by simple, inexpensive and rapid methods that
can be applied in a basic routine bacteriology laboratory. Bacteroides
bacteriophages, however, require facilities for anaerobic culture and require a
greater degree of expertise and laboratory resources. Some internationally
standardised methods exist (e.g. ISO 10705-1; 10705-2; 10705-4). They are
generally not considered to be a health risk for laboratory workers, although
some of the host bacterial strains may be opportunistic pathogens.




                                      57
2.2.7    Sulphite-reducing clostridia and Clostridium perfringens

     Sulphite-reducing clostridia are obligately anaerobic, spore-forming
organisms, of which the most characteristic, Clostridium perfringens, is
normally present in faeces (although in much smaller numbers than E. coli).
Except for Clostridium perfringens they are not exclusively of faecal origin and
can be derived from other environmental sources. The spores can survive in
water for very long periods and are quite resistant to disinfection. As C.
perfringens is faecally specific, unlike the other sulphite-reducing clostridia, it
is the preferred parameter. Clostridia are not, however, recommended for the
routine monitoring of distribution systems because of their length of survival
they may be detected long after (and far from) the pollution event, leading to
possible false alarms.

      The presence of C. perfringens in groundwaters in the absence of E.coli
and enterococci points to pollution at some time in the past and suggests the
source may be liable to intermittent contamination. Being relatively resistant to
disinfection, C. perfringens spores must be removed by some form of filtration
as terminal disinfection is unlikely to inactivate them. Their presence in finished
waters, therefore, suggests deficiencies in treatment filtration processes. It has
been proposed that the detection of C. perfringens spores in finished water may
indicate the potential for protozoan cysts to have passed through the treatment
process.

     International standardised methods are available (ISO 6461-1; 6461-2) and
methods for detection of clostridia are relatively easy to perform, even though a
simple pasteurisation step is required for the enumeration of spores and strict
anaerobic conditions are needed for Clostridium perfringens. Clostridia
detection only requires a basic routine bacteriology laboratory. They are not
normally a health risk for laboratory workers but they are pathogenic and if
carelessly handled can give rise to food poisoning and wound infections.


2.2.8    Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas spp.

     Aeromonas and Pseudomonas spp. are Gram-negative, rod-shaped, oxidase
positive, non-spore-forming bacteria that are environmentally widespread, with
some being opportunistic pathogens.

     Ps. aeruginosa is commonly found in faeces, soil, water, and sewage but
cannot be used as an index of faecal contamination, since it is not invariably
present in faeces and sewage, and may also multiply in the enriched aquatic
environment and on the surface of organic materials in contact with water.


                                        58
However, its presence may be one of the factors taken into account in assessing
the general cleanliness of water distribution systems. Its presence may lead to
deterioration in bacteriological quality, and is often associated with a rise in
water temperature or low rates of flow in the distribution system, and
consequent complaints about taste, odour, and turbidity.

     Aeromonas shows no particular association with faecal pollution. Most
drinking water treatment processes reduce the numbers of Aeromonas to below
detectable levels, but treated distributed water can contain larger numbers as a
result of regrowth in mains and storage reservoirs. Regrowth of Aeromonas
depends on the organic content of the water, temperature, the residence time in
the distribution network and the presence of residual chlorine (WHO, 2001).

      Neither Pseudomonas nor Aeromonas are indices of faecal pollution, but
they may be useful in assessing regrowth in distribution systems. They are both
detectable by simple, and inexpensive cultural methods that that can be applied
in a basic routine bacteriology laboratory. They may, however, pose a health
risk for laboratory workers as some strains of these bacteria are pathogenic. Ps.
aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that mainly gives rise to superficial
infections following contact with heavily contaminated water (but does not
cause enteric infections by ingestion). Strains of Aeromonas have been
implicated in enteric infection but there is no strong evidence that the strains
found in water distribution systems are of these types and lead to enteric
infection (WHO, 2001). Aeromonas strains may also cause wound infections.


2.2.9    Presence-absence test

      Recognising that for good quality drinking waters the majority of samples
should not contain any index/indicator organisms, and the detection of any such
organism requires action, Clark (1968) developed simple presence-absence
tests. Although not strictly speaking a parameter, the presence-absence
technique (P-A) can be an economical alternative to coliform analysis. The need
to determine the actual number of coliforms within all samples has been
questioned, especially in light of the fact that studies have shown that these
organisms tend to be irregularly distributed (Pipes and Christian, 1984). The P-
A test, which is in essence the most probable number method reduced to a
single tube, simply gives an indication of whether coliform bacteria are present
or not (Clark, 1980). The test eliminates the types of errors associated with
more complex enumeration techniques and record keeping. P-A testing is an
effective screening device when assurance of zero coliform organisms is
required on a large number of samples. However, it is not an appropriate test
where contamination is common and, thus, it is not recommended for use in the


                                       59
analysis of surface water, untreated small-community supplies or larger water
supplies that may experience occasional operational and maintenance
difficulties. Only a minimal amount of analytical experience is required for the
person performing P-A testing because of the simplicity of the methods that are
available. Tests have been developed that permit the simultaneous detection of
total coliforms and E. coli. The P-A test is given as a standard procedure in
APHA, AWWA, WEF (1998) and with appropriate confirmatory procedures a
single test can detect total coliforms, Aeromonas, Clostridium, E. coli, faecal
streptococci, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus.


2.2.10   Hydrogen sulphide test

     Manja et al. (1982) developed a very simple screening test for faecal
pollution of water sources based on the detection of H2S production by bacteria.
Hydrogen sulphide (H2S) is produced by some bacteria that are associated with
faecal contamination, such as some members of Enterobacteriaceae (e.g.
Citrobacters) and some other bacteria (sulphite-reducing clostridia, such as
Clostridium perfringens). However, a variety of other bacteria not associated
with faecal contamination are also capable of producing H2S under certain
conditions. Some bacteria produce H2S by reducing sulphate and other oxidised
forms of sulphur, while other bacteria produce H2S by degradation of organic
sulphur in amino acids and other organic constituents of biomass. The current
status, advantages and limitations of H2S testing for faecal contamination of
water was recently reviewed (Sobsey and Pfaender, 2002).

       Using a culture medium with thiosulphate as a sulphur source and ferric
ammonium citrate as an ‘indicator’, certain bacteria will produce H2S. The
presence of a heavy metal, such as iron salts, in the medium inhibits some
bacteria, although Salmonella, Citrobacter and Proteus are all able to produce
H2S in such a medium. The H2S test uses a treated paper strip that is incubated
with the water sample. If bacteria capable of producing H2S under the test
conditions are present in the sample, the production of H2S turns the paper
black. The test can also indicate the severity of contamination if it is used in a
semi-quantitative manner by testing dilutions of the sample. Since its initial
development, many modifications of the original H2S test have been reported in
the literature and now a number of different H2S tests are available. Because of
the lack of standardisation of these different H2S tests, there is not a consensus
H2S test method that can be recommended for use. Furthermore, it has not been
established that H2S tests always detect H2S-producing bacteria exclusively
associated with faecal contamination. Therefore, it is possible that the test may
detect other, non-faecal H2S-producing bacteria from natural sources, leading to
a ‘false positive’ result in terms of faecal contamination.


                                       60
      Despite its limitations, the H2S strip test is a potentially useful tool for
screening water sources and drinking water for faecal pollution, especially for
small communities without access to water testing laboratories, or as a simple,
initial, warning system. Correlations between the H2S method and standard
faecal pollution microbial indices have been reported even if the test is carried
out at room temperature (i.e. without incubation). However, H2S tests are not
recommended as substitutes for more specific and better established
microbiological parameters for faecal contamination, such as E.coli.


2.2.11   Other microorganisms

     Other microorganisms (e.g. bifidobacteria, candida/yeasts, acid-fast
bacteria etc.) have been considered in the past as potential parameters of
drinking water quality. None of these has been widely accepted and they are not
recommended as parameters for routine drinking water evaluation.


2.2.12   Pathogens

      Various pathogenic microorganisms have been suggested as indices of
faecal pollution or indicators of treatment efficiency. However, this approach
does not provide the degree of public health protection afforded by the
traditional non-pathogenic index or indicator organisms as it depends upon
detecting an actual risk of infection rather than the potential of one. It is also
impossible to monitor for all known pathogens and there are also pathogenic
agents as yet unrecognised. Nevertheless, pathogen monitoring can provide
relevant additional information to that provided by the traditional microbial
parameters, particularly in a research context (e.g. in validating the significance
of indicators of treatment efficiency). Information relating to the presence of
pathogens in drinking water is also valuable in the investigation of possible
waterborne disease outbreaks (see Chapter 7). Although if monitoring is only
instituted when the outbreak has been recognised its value may be much
reduced due to the time lag between exposure and development of disease.
Transient contamination events or treatment aberrations may have resolved by
the time disease occurs and is recognised (Allen et al., 2000).

      At present, pathogen monitoring should generally be considered for
specific purposes such as research studies, watershed evaluations to target point
sources of faecal contamination, outbreak investigations, research into treatment
efficiency, and so on. Routine pathogen monitoring based on spot samples has
not provided reliable data on their occurrence in source water or treated water.
The finding of low numbers of specific pathogens in treated water has, on


                                        61
occasion, resulted in major responses, without any indication of a public health
problem. Pathogen detection in treated water should, however, always result in
further investigation/evaluation and consideration/assessment of the need for
urgent response.

     The detection and enumeration of pathogens by culture methods should
only be carried out by qualified staff, in specialised laboratories with the proper
biosafety equipment and procedures. While most pathogens are present in low
numbers in the environment, culturing results in a potential exposure to very
high numbers of microorganisms. Molecular, chemical or immunological
methods may present less risk, but concentration of large volumes of water still
exposes the laboratory worker to a level of risk that requires evaluation and
control.

      Enteric viruses: Discharges of sewage and human excreta constitute the
main source of human enteric viruses in the aquatic environment and enteric
viruses are always associated with human or animal faecal pollution. However,
failure to detect them does not indicate the absence of faecal pollution because
their occurrence in faeces is highly variable. They can survive for long periods
in the environment and are quite resistant to treatment.

     Their enumeration can be expensive and results can take several weeks to
obtain if molecular methods are not used (see Chapter 8). Furthermore, many
cannot be grown under laboratory conditions. Their detection requires a very
well-equipped laboratory and highly trained personnel. In addition, most enteric
viruses are pathogenic (to human or animals), albeit at different levels of
severity, and virus culture must only be carried out by suitably qualified staff in
specialised laboratories with the proper biosafety equipment and procedures.

      Protozoan parasites: Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts are
associated with human and animal faecal sources including amphibians, birds,
and mammals, although the species capable of infecting man are restricted to
warm-blooded hosts. However, the failure to detect cysts or oocysts does not
constitute an indication of the absence of faecal pollution, as their numbers in
faeces are highly variable. They can survive for very long periods in the
environment and are quite resistant to treatment. They are sometimes found in
treated water, usually in low numbers, and when found in filtered supplies
suggest deficient coagulation-filtration processes. Viability is difficult to assess
but even if non-viable their presence is an indicator of deficient physical
treatment and the potential for viable (oo)cysts to be present at some time.
Continuous sampling has some value in detecting short-term perturbations in
treatment. As with enteric viruses, many species are pathogenic and their
isolation and enumeration is expensive and requires a very well equipped


                                        62
  laboratory with the proper biosafety equipment and procedures, and highly
  trained personnel (see also Chapter 2.3.7).

                 Table 2.1. Microbial parameter and assay characteristics




                                                                               Risk to analyst (i.e. pathogenicity)
                                           Association with faecal material




                                                                                                                                                                           Survival in the environment



                                                                                                                                                                                                         Resistance to treatment
                                                                                                                      Speed of measurement




                                                                                                                                                    Technical difficulty
                                                  (i.e. pathogens)




                                                                                                                                             Cost
Parameter


Total coliforms                                      L          M       M        M          M                                                                                                             L
Thermotolerant coliforms                   M         M          M       M        M          M                                                                                                             L
Escherichia coli                           H         M          M       M        M          M                                                                                                             L
Faecal streptococci (enterococci)          M         M          M       M        M          M                                                                                                            ISD
Ratio between counts (any parameter)
Total bacteria (microscopic)                                    H       M        M          H                                                                                                            H
Viable bacteria (microscopic)                                   M       M        M          H                                                                                                            M
Total bacteria (automated)                                      H       H        M          H                                                                                                            H
Viable bacteria (automated)                                     H       H        M          H                                                                                                            M
Heterotrophic bacteria                               L          M       M        M          H                                                                                                            H
Aerobic spore-forming bacteria                       L          M       M        M          H                                                                                                            H
Somatic coliphages                        ISD        M          H       M        M          H                                                                                                            M
F specific RNA phages                     ISD        M          H       M        M          H                                                                                                            H
Bacteroides phages                        ISD        M          H       M        M         ISD                                                                                                           H
Sulphite-reducing clostridia                         L          M       M        M          VH                                                                                                           VH
Clostridium perfringens                    H         L          M       M        M          VH                                                                                                           VH
Pseudomonas, Aeromonas                               M          M       M        M          VH                                                                                                            L
Enteric viruses                                      H          L       H        H          H                                                                                                            H
Giardia cysts                                        H          L       H        H          H                                                                                                            H
Cryptosporidium oocysts                              H          L       H        H          VH                                                                                                           VH
  Key:
  L: low. M: medium. H: high. VH: very high. ISD: insufficient data. Blue: Not applicable.




                                                                              63
                  Table 2.2. Microbial parameter applicability and suitability




                                                                                                                                                                            Treatment efficiency (disinfection)
                                                                                                                                           Treatment efficiency (removal)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Distribution system (regrowth)
                                                                            Source water characterisation


                                                                                                            Groundwater characterisation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Distribution system (ingress)
                                              Sanitary survey (catchment)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Outbreak investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Treated water
Parameter


Total coliforms                               NR      NR     NR      NR      SA      S     SA*                                                                                                                                                                    S                                S
Thermotolerant coliforms                      SA      SA     SA      NR      SA     SA     SA*                                                                                                                                                                    S                                S
Escherichia coli                               S       S      S       S       S     SA      S*                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
Faecal streptococci (enterococci)             SA      SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
Ratio between counts (any parameter)          NR      NR     NR
Total bacteria (microscopic)                                         SA      SA             SA                                                                                                                                                                     S                               S
Viable bacteria (microscopic)                                        SA      SA             SA                                                                                                                                                                     S                               S
Heterotrophic bacteria                                                S       S     NR       S                                                                                                                                                                     S                               S
Aerobic spore-forming bacteria                                        S       S     NR                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
Somatic coliphages                            SA      SA     SA              SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
F specific RNA phages                         SA      SA     SA              SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
Bacteroides phages                            SA      SA     SA              SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
Sulphite-reducing clostridia                  NR      NR     NR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
Clostridium perfringens                       SA      SA     SA      SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
Pseudomonas, Aeromonas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
Enteric viruses                                S       S      S      NR      NR                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
Giardia cysts, Cryptosporidium oocysts         S       S     SA       S      NR                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
   Key:
   S: suitable. *In distribution systems without residual disinfection. SA: suitable alternative.
   NR: not recommended. ISD: insufficient data. Blue: not applicable.



  2.3          Non-microbial parameters

       In addition to microbial measurements there are also various
  physicochemical assays of water quality that can provide useful information
  about the quality of, and changes in the quality of, raw water and the
  effectiveness of applied treatment processes. Many of the parameters can be


                                                                            64
analysed relatively quickly and at less cost than the microbial parameters and a
number can be measured on-line and can be automated providing real-time data
that can be linked to alarms or process control equipment. Non-microbial
parameters are outlined below and summarised, at the end of the section, in
Tables 2.3 and 2.4.

      For most non-microbial assays, the benefit of their use comes from the
speed and simplicity of measurement rather than the specificity of the assay
itself. The value of the tests comes from their application as triggers, to give
early warning through the detection of changes or unusual events, which can
then be followed up more rigorously.


2.3.1    Rainfall events

     Rainfall events are one of the most important causes of degradation in
source water quality affecting surface waters and ground waters (see Chapter 4).
Rainfall drives the movement of pathogens into and through water bodies and
can move soil, resuspend sediments, cause overflow of combined and poorly
maintained sewers, degrade groundwater through infiltration and so on.
Forecasting and rainfall detection systems such as radar, hydrographic
monitoring equipment and remote sensing can now be used to provide
authorities with advanced warnings of upcoming rainfall events that might
influence water quality and treatment. Stream flows and heights can be
measured on-line or manually to warn of major hydrological events. Although
not a measure of faecal loading, rainfall events are useful in predicting
deterioration in source water quality and permit appropriate precautionary
measures to be taken to safeguard treated water quality.


2.3.2    Flow

     Measurement of flow of surface waters as well as flow during drinking
water treatment provides important information regarding the availability and
production of quality water. Low flow in surface waters may lead to biological
degradation and higher concentrations of pollutants due to reduced dilution of
discharges. During treatment, changes in flow can adversely affect coagulation
and sedimentation processes, while filtration rate and contact time with
disinfectant are key factors in the production of safe drinking water. Flow is
easily measured using continuous on-line measurements. Changes in flow rates
within distribution systems can result in suspension of sediments and
deterioration of supplies.



                                      65
2.3.3     Colour

     Colour in drinking water may be due to the presence of coloured organic
matter, e.g. humic substances, metals such as iron or manganese, or highly
coloured industrial wastes. The appearance of colour in water is caused by the
absorption of certain wavelengths of light by coloured substances (‘true’ colour)
and by the scattering of light by suspended particles, together these are termed
‘apparent’ colour. Treatment removes much of the suspended matter and,
generally speaking, drinking water should be colourless. Source waters high in
true colour can be treated to remove colour by oxidation with ozone and
adsorption onto activated carbon.

      Changes in colour from that normally seen can provide warning of possible
quality changes or maintenance issues and should be investigated. They may,
for example, reflect degradation of the source water, corrosion problems in
distribution systems, changes in performance of adsorptive treatment processes
(such as activated carbon filtration) and so on. It is simply and cheaply
measured using a spectrophotometer or simple colorimeter or using visual
comparison with known standards.


2.3.4     pH

     The pH of water affects treatment processes, especially coagulation and
disinfection with chlorine-based chemicals. Changes in the pH of source water
should be investigated as it is a relatively stable parameter over the short term
and any unusual change may reflect a major event. pH is commonly adjusted as
part of the treatment process and is continuously monitored.

     Equipment for continuous monitoring and data logging is available at
reasonable cost. Simple paper strip or colorimetric tests are also available, while
these are less precise they can provide valuable information. Test methods are
inexpensive, require average skill, and are performed routinely by many
laboratories and may easily be conducted on site.


2.3.5     Solids

     Water always contains a certain amount of particulate matter ranging from
colloidal organic or inorganic matter that never settles to silts, algae, plankton or
debris of all kinds that can settle quite rapidly. Various methods have been
devised to identify or measure these solids. In raw water storage reservoirs and
other large bodies of water, discs can be used to measure the depth of water


                                         66
through which the disc remains visible (i.e. transparency). Suspended solids can
be measured indirectly as turbidity, which depends on the scattering of light by
particles in water (see 2.3.6) or by particle size-counters (see 2.3.7).
Nephelometers, particle size analysers and physico-chemical methods provide
more precise measurements of the solids in water.

      Solids can be dissolved solids or suspended solids in water: together they
are referred to as total solids. They can be measured directly, separately or
together by physico-chemical methods using combinations of filtration and
evaporation. What is left after evaporation of the water before and after
filtration through a 2.0 µm filter are referred to respectively as ‘total solids’ and
‘total dissolved solids’. Material retained on the filter is referred to as ‘total
suspended solids’. Methods for the measurement of solids are well described
(APHA, AWWA, WEF, 1998) and involve simple procedures such as filtration,
evaporation and/or drying at specified temperatures, and weighing. Results are
reported in mg/l.

      The amount of solids in water affects both removal and disinfection
processes. The solids content of waters can vary significantly with seasons and
rainfall events. Abnormal changes in the amount or type of solids in source or
treated water should be investigated. Solids, whether total or dissolved, can
provide information on the pollution level of the water. Solids can affect taste
and appearance of drinking water. Furthermore, a significant increase in the
levels of solids could be related to contamination from a range of sources such
as freshly derived surface run-off, ingress or wastewater.

     Conductivity assays can be used to reflect total dissolved solids
concentrations and can be applied rapidly on-line, although conductivity mainly
reflects the mineral content. In relatively low salinity waters a marked change in
conductivity can provide an indication of contamination with more saline
waters, such as most types of wastewater (as wastewaters are typically more
than an order of magnitude more saline than surface freshwater).

     Many of the tests methods for solids are inexpensive, some can be
undertaken in-field or on-line, most require average skill, and others can be
performed routinely by many laboratories providing data within hours.


2.3.6     Turbidity

    Turbidity is a measure of suspended solids. It has been singled out here
because it is probably the most generally applicable and widely used non-
microbial parameter that can provide the most significant data throughout the


                                         67
water abstraction and treatment process. It is not associated specifically with
faecal material, but increases in turbidity are often accompanied with increases
in pathogen numbers, including cysts or oocysts. Turbidity is often determined
by measuring the amount of light scattered by the particulate matter in the water
using a nephelometer. Instruments for measuring turbidity are calibrated using
commercially available certified standardised suspensions of formazin defined
in Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). The lowest level measurable by
modern nephelometers is about 0.02 NTU. Nephelometers are available as on-
line continuous turbidity meters and they can provide precise data on variations
in water treatment efficiency. Data can be collected electronically and stored in
a digital format for reporting, analysis or as part of a process-control scheme.

      Waterworks using filtration should be able to achieve values of 0.5 NTU or
less. Regulations in various countries specify values from 0.1 to 5 NTU in final
treated water. Where financial resources are not available for continuous
monitoring, manual measurements at regular and frequent intervals can be
obtained using simple portable low cost instruments. Some of these are simple
comparator devices. A very cheap turbidity measurement method is based on
transparency, which can be used to measure down to 5 NTU, this is useful in
terms of small community supplies where a high level of sensitivity is not
necessary (WHO, 1997).

      The turbidity of water affects treatment processes and especially
disinfection with chlorine-based chemicals. It is important to know the turbidity
characteristics of water sources and to respond to unexplained changes in
turbidity. Turbidity of surface water sources may be heavily influenced by
rainfall events or algal growth and treatment processes should be tailored to
respond to such changes. Most groundwaters have a relatively stable turbidity
and any change reflects a major event that needs to be investigated and
corrected by tailoring the treatment to the incoming water quality. Even
relatively small changes may be important and outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis
have been associated with small changes in turbidity of relatively short duration
(Waite, 1997). Turbidity is also a good measure of the extent to which treatment
processes remove suspended matter. Turbidity of filtered water should be
monitored at each filter and data above the expected values should be
investigated. Monitoring of the combined filtrate alone from a number of filters
may not detect significant loss of performance of an individual filter. This is
particularly important in relation to the removal of cryptosporidial oocysts as
they are not inactivated by conventional disinfection, and effective filtration is
the only treatment means for their control.




                                       68
      Equipment for continuous monitoring and data logging is available at
relatively low cost. Test methods are inexpensive, require average skill, and are
performed routinely by most laboratories.


2.3.7     Particle size analysis

      Particles in water are distributed over a wide range of size. Enumeration
and identification of the nature of the larger particles is best achieved by
microscopy (see section 2.3.8). Various other instruments have been developed
to enumerate and size particles in water. These instruments measure the passage
of particles in a sensing zone where each is counted and sized according to the
electronic pulse generated. This pulse is proportional to the characteristics of the
size and shape of the particle. The apparatus generates a report on the number of
particles in each size-class selected. There are different types of instruments
available, but they are all computerised, often complex and expensive. They
also require careful calibration in order to generate data that is comparable
between different instruments. They are especially useful in determining
filtration efficiency during drinking water treatments. The surveillance of the
removal of particles in the 2-5 micrometer size range (i.e. the size of cysts
Giardia or oocysts of Cryptosporidium) is currently being evaluated as a
potential surrogate for their removal.

      Particle counting can provide a general index of removal effectiveness and
as such is a good quality control parameter for filtration. However, factors other
than size (such as electric charge on the particles) may affect removal processes.
Particle size monitors are available as on-line instruments, however as
mentioned earlier, the equipment is expensive and it requires a greater level of
skill than turbidity analysis.


2.3.8     Microscopic particulate analysis

     Microscopic particulate analysis provides detailed microscopic information
on the nature of particulates in water. Biological particles (cysts, diatoms, fungi,
zoo-plankton and phyto-plankton) and inorganic particles are described and
enumerated. It is useful to identify contaminants in groundwater, providing
information on the nature and likely origins of its contamination. Groundwater
influenced by surface water will contain a significant amount of algae and other
particles not normally found in protected groundwater. It is mainly of value as a
research and investigational tool (see Chapter 7) rather than for routine
monitoring. The analysis requires well-trained skilled personnel, is time-
consuming and is performed by few laboratories.


                                        69
2.3.9    Disinfectant residual concentration

      Chlorine is the most widely used disinfectant in water treatment. For the
majority of bacterial pathogens, and some viruses, terminal disinfection is the
critical control point of treatment and proper measurement and control of
disinfectant dose and contact time (alongside pH and turbidity) is imperative.
The measurements of disinfectant dose, residual obtained and the time of
contact are primary data that provide a minimal level of quality control of
treated water and disinfectant residual concentration during and after
disinfection is a required measurement at most water treatment works.
Wherever possible residual concentration after contact should be continuously
monitored, with suitable alarms to signal departures from the pre-set target
range and, in some cases, provision for automatic shutdown of the treatment
process may be appropriate. Instruments for continuous monitoring and data
logging are also available at reasonable cost. Simple and inexpensive
colorimetric tests using titration methods or kits are available for manual
determination by relatively low skilled personnel.


2.3.10   Organic matter

      Data on the level of organic matter in treated water provide an indication
of the potential for the regrowth of heterotrophic bacteria (including
pseudomonads and aeromonads) in reservoirs and distribution systems. Organic
matter can be measured as Total Organic Carbon (TOC), Biochemical Oxygen
Demand (BOD) or Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). BOD is primarily used
with wastewaters and polluted surface waters, and TOC is the only parameter
applicable to drinking water. Measurement of these three parameters requires
basic laboratory facilities and adequately trained personnel. TOC measurement
can now be obtained using on-line instrumentation. The data provide
information on the amount of matter present in the water. Not all organic matter
is biologically available and it may be useful to measure the amount of organic
material available to support bacteriological growth. Although BOD does this to
a degree, a number of other measurements such as assimilable organic carbon
(AOC) have been proposed. These latter methods require skilled personnel and
a well-equipped laboratory.


2.3.11   Specific chemical parameters

     Ammonia is rapidly oxidised in the environment and is typically found in
natural waters at concentrations less than 0.1 mg/l. Concentrations significantly
above this indicate gross contamination by fresh sanitary waste, where ammonia


                                       70
levels are typically very high (tens to hundreds of mg/l). Relatively simple and
rapid in-fields tests are available for ammonia that could be used as an initial
screen. Ammonia combines readily with chlorine to produce chloramines,
which are much less effective disinfectants but are more stable.

     Boron measurement has been proposed as an index of faecal pollution.
Salts of boron have been used as a water softener, and calcofluor as a whitener
in detergents, resulting in their presence in wastewater. Their use, however, is
widely being discontinued, which markedly reduces the value of these
parameters as indices of sewage/wastewater pollution.

     Excreted materials, such as faecal sterols, secretory immunoglobulin type
A, caffeine, urobilin and a number of other parameters have been suggested as
indices of faecal pollution. Their detection and measurement usually require
well-equipped laboratories with trained personnel. Research on the use of these
parameters is ongoing and, as yet, they are not recommended for routine
monitoring.

               Table 2.3. Non-microbial parameter assay characteristics

   Parameter
                                                                            monitoring or automation
                                                     Speed of measurement




                                                                              Possibility of online




                                                                                                              Technical difficulty
                                                                                                       Cost




   Rainfall events                                   H                            H                    L      L
   Flow                                              H                            H                    L      L
   Colour                                            H                            H                    L      L
   pH                                                H                            H                    L      L
   Solids (Total and dissolved)                      M                            L                    M      M
   Conductivity                                      H                            H                    L      L
   Turbidity                                         H                            H                    L      L
   Particle size analysis                            H                            H                    H      H
   Microscopic particulate analysis                  H                            L                    H      H
   Disinfectant residual                             H                            H                    L      L
   Organic matter (TOC, BOD, COD)                    M                            H                    M      M
   Ammonia                                           H                            M                    M      M
   Detergents (Boron, calcofluor)
   Faecal sterols, IgA (secretory), caffeine,
   urobilin
Key: L: low. M: medium. H: high. Blue: not applicable.



                                                71
               Table 2.4. Non-microbial parameter applicability and suitability




                                                                                                                                                                                 Treatment efficiency (disinfection)
                                                                                                                                                Treatment efficiency (removal)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Distribution system (regrowth)
                                                                                 Source water characterisation

                                                                                                                 Groundwater characterisation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Distribution system (ingress)
                                                   Sanitary survey (catchment)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Outbreak investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Treated water
Parameter


Rainfall events                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
Flow                                                   S      S                 S    S                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                S
Colour                                                                               S                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
pH                                                                              S                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
Solids (Total and dissolved)                           S      S     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
Conductivity                                           S      S     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
Turbidity                                              S      S     S      S                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
Particle size analysis                                                     S                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
Microscopic particulate analysis                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
Disinfectant residual                                                           S    S                                                                                                                                                 SA                                                               S
Organic matter (TOC, BOD, COD)                         S      S     S                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                S
Ammonia                                                S      S     S                                                                                                                                                                  ISD                                                              S
Detergents (Boron, calcofluor)                        NR NR NR
Faecal sterols, IgA (secretory), caffeine, urobilin
   Key:
   S: suitable. SA: suitable alternative. ISD: insufficient data. NR: not recommended.
   Blue: not applicable.


   2.4         Summary

        For drinking water to be wholesome it should not present a risk of
   infection, or contain unacceptable concentrations of chemicals hazardous to
   health and should be aesthetically acceptable to the consumer. The infectious
   risks associated with drinking water are primarily those posed by faecal
   pollution, and their control depends on being able to assess the risks from any
   water source and to apply suitable treatment to eliminate the identified risks.
   Rather than trying to detect the presence of pathogens, at which time the


                                                    72
consumer is being exposed to possible infection, it is practice to look for
organisms, while not pathogens themselves, that show the presence of faecal
pollution and therefore the potential for the presence of pathogens. A number of
microbial parameters have been used as ‘index’ organisms to give an indication
of the amount of faecal pollution of source waters, the pre-eminent being E.
coli. It is also important to be able to check on the effectiveness of treatment
processes at eliminating any pathogens that might have been present in the
untreated source, and ‘indicator’ organisms fulfil that role. While the perfect
indicator needs to be as resistant to treatment processes as the most resistant
potential pathogen, no single parameter is ideal. In principle, treatment should
be able to eliminate all non-sporing bacteria and enteric viruses and the less
restricted the parameter chosen the more suitable it should be. There are a
number of microbial parameters that are of some value as indices or indicators
and these are discussed. Water quality can deteriorate in distribution due to
ingress or regrowth and measures of regrowth potential are described.

     A number of non-microbial parameters are described, which can provide
useful information about quality, and changes in quality, of source waters and
the effectiveness of treatment processes.




                                      73
                REFERENCES AND FURTHER READING



Allen, M.J., Clancy, J.L. and Rice, E.W. (2000) Pathogen monitoring – old
      baggage from the last millennium. Journal of the American Water Works
      Association 92(9), 64-76.

Anon (1994) The Microbiology of Water 1994: Part 1 – Drinking water.
     Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects, No. 71. Her Majesty’s
     Stationery Office, London.

Anon (1999) Waterborne pathogens. AWWA Manual of water practices, M48.
     American Water Works Association, Denver, Colorado.

Armon, R. and Kott, Y. (1995) Distribution comparison between coliphages and
    phages of anaerobic bacteria (Bacteriodes fragilis) in water sources and
    their reliability as faecal pollution indicators in drinking water. Water
    Science and Technology 31(5-6), 215-222.

APHA, AWWA, WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
    and Wastewaters, 20th Edition. American Public Health Association,
    Washington, DC.

Bartram, J. and Ballance, R. eds. (1996)Water Quality Monitoring. A practical
      guide to the design and implementation of freshwater quality studies and
      monitoring programmes. E & FN Spon, published on behalf of World
      Health Organization and the United Nations Environment Programme

Chin, J. (2000) Control of Communicable Diseases Manual. 17th Edition.
      American Public Health Association, Washington, D.C.

Clark, J.A. (1968) A presence-absence (PA) test providing sensitive and
      inexpensive detection of coliforms, fecal coliforms and fecal streptococci
      in municipal drinking water supplies. Canadian Journal of Microbiology
      14, 13-18.




                                       74
Clark, J.A. (1980) The influence of increasing numbers of non indicator
      organisms on the membrane filtration and P-A tests. Canadian Journal of
      Microbiology 15, 827-832.

Fujioka, R., Sian-Denton, C., Borja, M., Castro, J. and Morphew, K. (1999)
      Soil: the environmental source of Escherichia coli and enterococci in
      Guam’s streams. Journal of Applied Microbiology Symposium
      Supplement 85, 83S-89S.

Gleeson, C. and Gray, N. (1997) The Coliform Index and Waterborne Disease.
      E and FN Spon, London. pp194.

Grabow, W.O.K. (2001) Bacteriophages: Update on application as models for
     viruses in water. Water SA 27(2), 251-268.

Hsu, F.-C., Shieh, Y.-S.C. and Sobsey, M.D. (1995) Genotyping male-specific
      RNA coliphages by hybridization with oligonucleotide probes. Applied
      and Environmental Microbiology 61, 3960-3966.

Hurst, C.J., Knudsen, G.R., McInerney, M.J., Stetzenbach, L.D. and Walter,
      M.V. (2001) Manual of Environmental Microbiology 2nd Edition.
      American Society for Microbiology Press, Washington, DC.

ISO 6461-1 (1986) Water quality – Detection and enumeration of the spores of
     sulphite-reducing anaerobes (clostridia) – Part 1: Method by enrichment
     in a liquid medium. International Organization for Standardization,
     Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 6461-2 (1986) Water quality – Detection and enumeration of the spores of
     sulphite-reducing anaerobes (clostridia) – Part 2: Method by membrane
     filtration. International Organization for Standardization, Geneva,
     Switzerland.

ISO 9308-1 (1990) Water Quality – Detection and enumeration of coliform
     organisms, thermotolerant coliforms and presumptive Escherichia coli –
     Part 1: Membrane filtration method. International Organization for
     Standardization, Geneva.

ISO 9308-2 (1990) Water Quality – Detection and enumeration of coliform
     organisms, thermotolerant coliforms and presumptive Escherichia coli –
     Part 2: Multiple tube (most probable number) method. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva.



                                      75
ISO 10705-1 (1995) Water quality – Detection and enumeration of
     bacteriophages – Part 1: Enumeration of F-specific RNA bacteriophages.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 10705-2 (1995) Water quality – Detection and enumeration of
     bacteriophages – Part 2: Enumeration of somatic coliphages. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 10705-4 (1995) Water quality – Detection and enumeration of
     bacteriophages – Part 4: Enumeration of bacteriophages infecting
     Bacteriodes fragilis. International Organization for Standardization,
     Geneva, Switzerland.

Leclerc, H., Edberg, S., Pierzo, V. and Delattre, J.M. (2000) Bacteriophages as
      indicators of enteric viruses and public health risk in groundwaters.
      Journal of Applied Microbiology 88(1), 5-21.

Manja, K.S., Maurya, M.S. and Rao, K.M. (1982) A simple field test for the
     detection of faecal pollution in drinking water. Bulletin of the World
     Health Organization 60, 797-801.

Murray, P.R. (1999) Manual of Clinical Microbiology. American Society for
     Microbiology Press, Washington, DC.

Pipes, W.O. and Christian, R.R. (1984) Estimating mean coliform densities of
       water distribution systems. Journal of the American Water Works
       Association 76, 60-64.

Sobsey, M.D., Battigelli, D.A., Handzel, T.R. and Schwab, K.J. (1995) Male-
     specific Coliphages as Indicators of Viral Contamination of Drinking
     Water. American Water Works Association Research Foundation,
     Denver, Co. pp. 150.

Sobsey, M.D. and Pfaender, F.K. (2002) Evaluation of the H2S Method for
     Detection of Faecal Contamination of Drinking water. WHO/SDE/WSH
     02.08. World Health Organization, Geneva.

USEPA (2001) Protocol for Developing Pathogen TMDL. 1st Edition. EPA
    841-R-00-002. US Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water,
    Washington, DC.

Waite, W.M. (1991) Drinking water standards – a personal perspective. In:
      Proceedings of the UK Symposium on Health-related Water


                                       76
      Microbiology., Morris, R. et al. (Eds.). International Association for
      Water Pollution Research and Control, London. pp. 52-65.

Waite, W.M. (1997) Assessment of Water Supply and Associated matters in
      Relation to the Incidence of Cryptosporidiosis in Torbay in August and
      September 1995. Drinking Water Inspectorate, London.

WHO (1993) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Volume 1:
    Recommendations. World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Volume 2: Health criteria
    and other supporting information. World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (1997) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Volume 3: Surveillance
    and control of community supplies. World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (2001) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Addendum:
    Microbiological agents in drinking water. World Health Organization,
    Geneva.




                                       77
                                   Chapter 3

                          ASSESSMENT OF RISK



              P.R. Hunter, P. Payment, N. Ashbolt and J. Bartram




3.1      Introduction

     This chapter is primarily about the role of analytical techniques in the
assessment of risk and specifically the value of water quality indicator
parameters in this process. Assessment of risk in relation to drinking water
supplies is undertaken for a number of reasons (Percival et al., 2000):

 •    To predict the burden of waterborne disease in the community, under
      outbreak and non-outbreak conditions. This is helpful in determining the
      impact of improvements in water supply on health and to act as a driver
      towards improvement.
 •    To help set microbial standards for drinking water supplies that will give
      tolerable levels of illness within the populations drinking that water.
 •    To identify the most cost-effective option to reduce microbial health risks
      to drinking water consumers.
 •    To help determine the optimum treatment of water to balance microbial
      risks against chemical risks from disinfection by-products.
 •    To provide a conceptual framework to help individuals and organisations
      understand the nature and risk to, and from, their water and how those
      risks can be minimised.

     The focus of this chapter is to review the value of indicator parameters of
water quality and other analyses in the context of three different approaches to
the assessment of risk, namely:


                                       79
           •       Epidemiological methods.
           •       Quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA).
           •       Qualitative risk assessment (including risk ranking).


3.2                    What is risk?

      Risk can be defined in the simplest form as ‘the possibility of loss, harm or
injury’. This definition includes two separate concepts; the probability of an
event and the severity of that event. These two concepts are illustrated in
Figure 3.1, and this model helps the prioritisation of risks for any risk-reduction
action. Clearly those risks that need most urgent action are high probability –
high severity risks (upper right quadrant). Those that need little, if any, attention
are low probability – low severity (lower left quadrant).

                              Figure 3.1. Two-dimensional classification of risk

                      Low probability of severe harm
Severity of harm




                                                               High probability of severe harm
                   (should be given intermediate priority
                                                                (needs most urgent attention)
                                 attention)
                       Low probability of mild harm              High probability of mild harm
                   (can probably be ignored or given low     (should be given intermediate priority
                             priority attention)                           attention)
                                              Probability of occurrence


     Despite the simplicity of this two-dimensional model, the processes that
allow the calculation or quantification of risk differ. Indeed, many risk-based
decisions are still subjective or semi-quantitative. Even where risk assessments
are presented in an apparently objective, numerical manner these are often
based on assumptions which are themselves subjective or semi-quantitative.
One of the major problems with all forms of assessing risk is the quality and
levels of uncertainty in much of the basic data (Macgill et al., 2001).


3.3                    Types of evidence

     Data used in the assessment of risk is obtained from experimental work on
animals or volunteers and from epidemiological investigations. These
epidemiological investigations may be conducted during an outbreak
investigation or be done as part of planned research to investigate the causes
and transmission of disease.


                                                        80
      The most abundant source of epidemiological data on waterborne disease
comes from outbreak investigations (Chapter 7), and outbreaks provide very
valuable data for the assessment of risk. Particularly, outbreaks can provide
clear evidence that a specific pathogen can be spread by the water route.
Outbreak investigations also provide good information on what failures in the
water supply and distribution chain led to the risk to health. This enables risk
management strategies to focus on those stages in the water supply chain where
failures are likely to occur. Outbreaks can also be the setting for
epidemiological studies that provide useful information on what non-water-
related factors affect risk of infection with the outbreak pathogen. However,
outbreak data have their limitations (Andersson and Bohan, 2001). For any
particular pathogen, it is rarely known what proportion of the burden of disease
is due to sporadic spread by the water route. Nor is it known whether those
factors responsible for failure leading to outbreaks are also those factors
responsible for sporadic disease. Consequently information reliant only on
outbreaks may not be applicable to the major proportion of waterborne disease.
Also, epidemiological investigations of water-related disease may be biased by
prior knowledge of cases and controls about the suspected cause of the outbreak
(Hunter, 2000).

     Targeted epidemiological studies can provide good data on the relationship
between specific water quality parameters and disease in a population. Such
studies can identify relationships between risk factors for all waterborne disease
and not only that associated with outbreaks. Separating the waterborne fraction
of gastrointestinal disease from the numerous other routes of infection is a
challenge and the results from most epidemiological studies are presented as a
level of association between drinking water and the parameter(s) under study.
These studies are often subject to criticism as there are rarely clear-cut
conclusions, and they are potentially subject to a number of biases and
confounding factors.

     Quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) is an emerging field that
has applications in specific situations and is discussed in more detail below.
QMRA uses information on the distribution and concentration of specific
pathogens in the water supply along with information on the infectivity of those
pathogens to determine risk to public health.

     Assessment of the quality of evidence is important yet rarely formally
addressed in the assessment of risk (Macgill et al., 2001). Requirements for
evidence related to demonstration of causality may be very different to that for
dose response. In practice the overall body of evidence may include a number of
studies each with strengths and weaknesses and employing often very different
methods and approaches (Blumenthal et al., 2001; Haas and Eisenberg, 2001).


                                       81
When assessing the risk of disease due to drinking water it is very important to
consider the overall body of evidence, weighing each piece of evidence as to its
quality. Given the uncertainty inherent in all epidemiological studies reliance on
a single study, even an extremely well conducted one, may be misleading.


3.4        Epidemiological approaches to risk

     Epidemiology is the study of the incidence and transmission of disease in
populations. Epidemiological investigations are central to the assessment of risk
(Blumenthal et al., 2001), both in providing estimates of risk and in providing
input data into risk assessment models. The epidemiological definitions of risk
are distinct from definitions used more generally, and are defined in Table 3.1.

                       Table 3.1. Epidemiological definitions of risk

          Risk                                       Definition
                            The number of new cases occurring within a certain sized
      Absolute risk       population during a specified time period, usually referred to as
                                                     incidence.
                           The proportion of cases of a disease due to a particular risk
   Attributable risk
                                                     factor.
                         The ratio between the incidence of disease in those members of
      Relative risk       the population exposed to a possible risk factor and those not
                                                    exposed.
                          The ratio between the probability that someone with a disease
                           has experience of the potential environmental factor and the
       Odds ratio
                           probability that a control has experience of the same factor.
                           Provides an estimate of relative risk in case control studies.


      Epidemiology relies on a limited range of methods and approaches to
define risk (discussed in more detail elsewhere, e.g. Gordis, 2000). Most
epidemiological studies can be classified as descriptive, analytical or
intervention. Descriptive epidemiological studies set out to describe the
distribution of cases of disease in time, place and person. Two types of
descriptive study that have been used in relation to waterborne disease are the
ecological study and the time series study. Analytical studies are generally of
the case control or cohort type, in which individuals or groups are compared.
Intervention studies are experimental studies that observe the impact of certain
interventions (such as provision of point-of-use filters) on the risk of illness.
The various types of study are described in Table 3.2.




                                              82
Table 3.2. Types of epidemiological study that have been used in risk assessment
                             of waterborne disease

Study type                Description                Advantages and disadvantages
                                                     Relatively inexpensive to carry out
                                                      providing that disease rates and
               Determining relationship between        data on risk factors are already
                  disease and risk factors by          available. Because data is only
 Ecological       comparing the incidence of            available for groups, it is not
   study       disease in different communities        known whether individuals with
                 with varying exposure to risk       disease are exposed to risk factor.
                            factors.                  Good for generating hypotheses,
                                                     but cannot be used as evidence of
                                                            epidemiological proof.
               Determining relationship between
                                                       A type of ecological study and
Time series    disease incidence in a population
                                                      subject to the same advantages
   study       and variation in a risk factor over
                                                            and disadvantages.
                              time.
               Determining relationship between      Relatively inexpensive to carry out.
                  disease and risk factors by          Generates data on individuals
Case-control
                  comparing the incidence of           exposed to the risk factors in
   study
               disease in exposed individuals to          comparison with healthy
                      matched controls.                           individuals.
               Comparing rate of disease in two,     Relatively expensive to carry out.
               or more, populations with different   Generates data on the risk factors
Cohort study   levels of exposure over a specific      in populations by comparing
                   period of time on randomly          groups of randomly selected
                      selected individuals.                     individuals.
               Comparing the rates of disease in
                                                           The gold standard for
                two or more groups (cohorts) of
Intervention                                          epidemiological proof, but can be
               randomly chosen individuals after
    study                                            time consuming and costly to carry
               intervening to change the level of
                                                                    out.
                           exposure.


3.5       Studies linking ill health to indicators

      While many microorganisms have been implicated as causative agents in
outbreaks of various diseases, there is little epidemiological data on the endemic
level of waterborne diseases and their aetiology. The association between many
aetiological gents with a given route of exposure and their contribution to the
total burden of disease is often uncertain. Studies that have attempted to define
the burden of waterborne disease have targeted gastrointestinal illness, as it is
the most frequent and easy to measure adverse outcome associated with
drinking water (Prüss et al., 2002). This frequent outcome enables researchers
to obtain information faster than with less common outcomes (e.g. hepatitis) or



                                           83
outcomes that are less defined and are more difficult to link with specific
exposures (e.g. malignant disease). However, use of gastrointestinal disease as
an index of water-related disease impact has a number of limitations. Depending
on how gastroenteritis is measured estimates of disease burden can vary
substantially. Since the disease may be considered ‘mild’, especially amongst
adults, relatively few people seek medical attention and even if they do they
may not have faecal samples taken for laboratory investigation. Consequently,
disease burden estimates based on national surveillance systems of laboratory
reports can substantially underestimate disease burden (Wheeler et al., 1999).
This has led to the use of self-reported gastroenteritis in several studies
(discussed below). There are, however, problems with the use of self-reported
gastroenteritis as a marker of disease, as depending on how gastroenteritis is
defined rates can vary substantially. How the data is collected can also
markedly affect estimates of disease burden. Retrospective studies, where
individuals are asked whether they have had diarrhoea in the previous month
can over-estimate illness by about three times when compared to prospective
studies where volunteers maintain a daily health diary (Wheeler et al., 1999).
This overestimate may be greater in outbreak settings (Hunter and Syed, 2001).
Furthermore, since gastrointestinal disease is relatively common and may be
transmitted by various means, it may be difficult to distinguish the waterborne
contribution from the background ‘noise’.

      The link between substandard drinking water and disease is relatively easy
to demonstrate. Such a demonstration becomes more difficult to make as the
quality of the water improves towards the current World Health Organization
(WHO) Guidelines (WHO, 1993; 1996; 1997). Indeed, the link between highly
treated drinking water meeting local regulations, as found in most industrialised
countries, and microbial illness has only been reported relatively recently. For
example, both waterborne Giardia and Cryptosporidium infection have clearly
been linked to drinking water meeting or exceeding current standards, thereby
challenging the value of the traditional microbial indicator parameters as well as
the efficacy of treatment procedures (Gostin et al., 2000).


3.5.1    Untreated drinking waters

     In developing countries there is abundant evidence that poor quality water
containing indices of faecal pollution is the source of much disease in the
population. There is, however, little data on the exact relationship between the
two.

    There is a substantial body of evidence that relates improvements in water
supply and sanitation in general and in drinking water quality in particular, to


                                       84
specific health outcomes (most frequently reductions in diarrhoeal disease).
Many of the early studies had severe methodological flaws (Blum and Feachem,
1983), but two reviews of published studies have sought to identify better-
conducted studies and assess the detected disease outcomes (Esrey et al., 1985;
1991). Most studies detected were from less-industrialized countries and a
median reduction in diarrhoeal disease of 26 – 27% was reported. However,
water quality was typically not assessed and in some cases opportunities for
recontamination may have cast doubt on the actual intervention tested. In some
more recent studies, far better characterisation of the intervention has been
achieved with actual water quality measurements made (e.g. Quick et al., 1999
[E. coli] and Semenza et al., 1998 [chlorine residual]). Nevertheless, the
absence of an estimate of exposure from most studies renders them unusable in
formalised risk assessment requiring description of population dose-response.


3.5.2    Substandard drinking water

      In France, Collin et al. (1981) prospectively studied gastrointestinal
illnesses associated with the consumption of tap water, using reports from
physicians, pharmacists and teachers. They reported five epidemics associated
with poor quality water but they did not address the endemic level of
gastrointestinal illnesses. The same group found a relationship between faecal
streptococci and acute gastrointestinal disease (Ferley et al., 1986; Zmirou
et al., 1987) in a study of 64 villages with sub-standard water. Thermotolerant
coliforms, total coliforms and total bacteria made no independent contribution
to disease. Zmirou et al. (1995) investigated the effect of chlorination alone, on
water that did not satisfy microbiological criteria otherwise. The crude
incidence of diarrhoea was 1.4 times more frequent in children from villages
where water supplies had evidence of faecal pollution, even after chlorination.
In Israel, Fattal et al. (1988) addressed the health effects of drinking water and
did not show a relationship between health effects and total or thermotolerant
(faecal) coliforms. Beaudeau et al. (1999) reported a relationship between the
chlorine disinfection level and diarrhoeal illness in the population of Le Havre
(France).


3.5.3    Drinking water meeting current regulations

     In the USA, Batik et al. (1979) attempted to use cases of hepatitis A as an
indicator of health risk, but could not establish a correlation with water quality
nor, in a later study, did they find a correlation between traditional indicator
parameters (coliforms) and the risk of waterborne outbreaks (Batik et al., 1983).



                                       85
      Craun et al. (1997) in the USA, evaluated the relationship between
coliform compliance and outbreak occurrence. They found that coliforms were
usually found in the water during an outbreak investigation but that during the
previous months, coliforms were detected in only half of the systems and
caused a violation in only a quarter of them. The violation rate was not different
between community systems that experienced an outbreak and those that did
not. In Namibia, Isaäckson and Sayed (1988) conducted a similar study and did
not observe an increased risk of gastrointestinal illness associated with the
consumption of recycled wastewater.

     In Canada, two prospective studies have suggested that a very high
proportion of gastrointestinal illnesses could still be attributable to tap water
consumption, even when water (albeit from a degraded catchment) exceeded the
current drinking water quality guidelines (Payment et al., 1991; 1997).

      Turbidity of treated drinking water has been linked to health effects in
Milwaukee (MacKenzie et al., 1994; Morris et al., 1996), in Philadelphia
(Schwartz et al., 1997; 2000) and in Le Havre (Beaudeau et al., 1999). It should
be noted, however, that these studies of turbidity and adverse health outcome
are ‘ecological’, in that they measure exposure of populations rather than of
individuals and, as such, potentially suffer from bias due to the so called
‘ecological fallacy’ (Walter, 1991). While this does not mean that these studies
are invalid, they cannot be taken as proof of an association in their own right.


3.5.4    The role of index/indictor parameters in assessing risk to health

      During the course of the 20th century, the absence of traditional
index/indicator parameters in drinking water was related to a significant
reduction in waterborne outbreaks. This reflected the use of these organisms to
indicate the presence of faecal contamination and through which valuable
information on effectiveness and failure of interventions was progressively
accumulated. More recently, occasional outbreaks and endemic disease have
been linked to waterborne disease in the absence of the traditional indicator
parameters. The causes are often failures in treatment or contamination of the
treated product, but the coliform parameters (total, thermotolerant or E. coli)
cannot provide information on the removal and inactivation of pathogens that
are several orders of magnitude more resistant to treatment. Hence, coliform
parameters remain useful for specific purposes described elsewhere in this
book, but future studies on waterborne disease should be targeted to additional
indicator parameters (for instance, those described in Chapter 2). There is,
however, no single direct measurement (including direct pathogen testing)
available to predict health outcomes in a population. Turbidity and faecal


                                       86
streptococci counts are the main indicator parameters that have been shown to
have independent association with actual levels of disease in populations.


3.6         Quantitative microbial risk assessment (qmra)

      The QMRA approach to risk differs from epidemiological approaches in
that the latter seeks to measure actual levels of disease in the population while
the former attempts to calculate risk from what is known, or can be inferred,
about the concentration of particular pathogens in the water supply and the
infectivity of those pathogens to humans. The relative values of QMRA and
epidemiology are strongly debated (Haas and Eisenberg, 2001).


3.6.1       The mathematical modelling of health risk

     Establishing the exposure setting is the first step to the mathematical
evaluation of microbial risk. The purpose is to determine the possible pathogens
present, dose(s) consumed and the characteristics of the pathogen(s) that will
define the outcome.

     The quantitative approach to microbial risk assessment is based on the
chemical risk assessment paradigm, and has been reviewed by Haas et al.
(1999). As with chemical risk assessment, this is a formalised procedure
involving four key steps (Table 3.3), each of which is briefly described below.

         Table 3.3. Steps involved in quantitative microbial risk assessment

                     (Adapted from National Research Council, 1983)

             Step                                         Aim
1.    Problem formalisation     To describe the overall environmental setting and
      and hazard identification relevant pathogens that may cause acute or chronic
                                effects to human health.
2.    Dose-response analysis   To find appropriate relationship(s) between pathogen
                               exposure and infection or illness (from epidemiological
                               studies).
3.    Exposure assessment      To determine the size and nature of the populations
                               exposed to each identified pathogen by route, amount
                               and duration of the exposure.
4.    Risk characterisation    To integrate the information from exposure and dose-
                               response, to express public health outcomes, taking into
                               account the variability and uncertainty of the estimations.




                                           87
     While the conceptual framework for both chemical and microbial risk
assessments is the same, pathogens differ from toxic chemicals in several key
ways:

 •      The variability of different strains of the one pathogen to cause disease
        (differing virulence).
 •      Virulence can evolve as the pathogen passes through various infected
        individuals.
 •      Pathogens are generally not evenly suspended in water.
 •      Pathogens can be passed from one person to many (secondary spread),
        from either healthy but infected (asymptomatic) or ill (symptomatic)
        hosts.
 •      Whether a person becomes infected or ill depends not only on the health
        of the person, but also on their pre-existing immunity and pathogen dose.


3.6.2      Hazard identification (hazard assessment)

      Pathogenic microorganisms are relatively well described in the scientific
literature and, apart from emerging waterborne pathogens (LeChevallier et al.,
1999a,b), data on their characteristics are generally available. Data needed for
the risk assessment process include the severity of the outcome, susceptibility
(long and short-term immunity), susceptible populations and secondary (person-
to-person) disease transmission. The outcomes of the exposure include non-
infection, asymptomatic infection and various levels of morbidity and mortality.
Gender, age and some forms of susceptibility may also affect the outcome.
Severe morbidity or mortality resulting from waterborne exposures are
significant in developing countries, but are relatively rare in industrialised
countries.


3.6.2.1    Outbreaks

     To properly conduct risk assessment, the hazard must be identified and
outbreaks provide important data in microbial risk assessment. The pathogen
responsible for the outbreak must be identified, the severity and contagiousness
of the infection can be described, the patterns of transmission in the population
can be studied and control measures can be evaluated. Waterborne disease
outbreak surveillance is key to this evaluation, and identification of the
aetiologic agent is dependent on the timely recognition of the outbreak, so that
appropriate clinical and environment samples can be obtained. The interests and


                                        88
expertise of investigators and the routine practices of local laboratories can also
influence whether the aetiologic agent is identified (Frost et al., 1996).
Diarrhoeal stool specimens, for example, are generally examined for bacterial
pathogens, but not for viruses. In most laboratories, testing for Cryptosporidium
is only undertaken if requested and is not included in routine stool examinations
for ova and other parasites. Hence, it is not surprising that even in the USA,
with one of the most comprehensive registers of waterborne outbreaks, between
1992-1996 the causative organism was not identified in over 40% of
investigations (Levy et al., 1998).

      The water quality data collected during and/or before the outbreak can be
useful in identifying the causes of the outbreak and in preventing their
reoccurrence. (Methods used for microbial water quality assessment are
discussed in Chapter 8 and their use in outbreak investigation is described in
Chapter 7). While background data on the level of faecal contamination, if not
sewage pollution in water is very valuable, care is needed in interpreting data on
finding or not finding pathogens. In particular, molecular epidemiology or
similar typing methods are necessary to confirm if the species identified from
water was also the agent present in the infected host (Chapter 7). There has been
considerable controversy over a number of species of opportunistic bacterial
pathogens with apparently non-pathogenic strains that may be found in drinking
water, versus different strains (and presumably non-water sources) causing
illness (Edberg et al., 1986; Havelaar et al., 1992; Kühn et al., 1997).


3.6.2.2   ‘Emerging’ pathogens

     As new pathogens are being described in the population or in the
environment, their potential for being transmitted by the water route must be
evaluated. Basic characteristics that allow a pathogen to be waterborne include:

 •    Excretion in the faeces and/or urine.
 •    An environmentally persistent stage.
 •    The ability to cause infection when inhaled or ingested.

     Emerging pathogens include those that are increasingly being recognised
as important contributors to waterborne disease as well as those that are newly
discovered. As such, they include:




                                        89
  •     Viruses: new enteroviruses, human caliciviruses (including Norwalk-like
        viruses), and hepatitis E.
  •     Parasitic protozoa: Cyclospora cayetanensis, various microsporidia and
        Toxoplasma gondii.
  •     Bacteria: Mycobacterium avium complex, Helicobacter pylori, pathogenic
        Escherichia coli and Campylobacter jejuni (LeChevallier et al., 1999a,b).
  •     Toxic cyanobacteria (Chorus and Bartram, 1999).

  •     Most faecal-oral pathogens are identified as causing acute gastrointestinal
        illnesses, with the major exceptions being hepatitis A and E viruses,
        Helicobacter pylori, Salmonella typhi and hookworm infection. However,
        it is important to note (as mentioned in Chapter 1) that some commonly
        recognised diseases (such as arthritis, type 1 diabetes mellitus, abortion,
        Guillain-Barré and Miller Fisher Syndrome) have been associated with, or
        are suspected to be caused by, infection with viral or bacterial pathogens
        excreted by humans or animals (Duim et al., 2000; Frisk et al., 1992;
        Gurgan and Diker, 1994; Havelaar et al., 2000; Maki-Ikola and Granfors,
        1992; Niklasson et al., 1998).


3.6.3      Dose-response analysis

      For QMRA, human dose-response studies are available for a few
pathogens and can be used to estimate the effects of low level exposure to these
microorganisms (Haas and Eisenberg, 2001). Two models of the infection
process have been proposed: the exponential model (Equation 1) and the beta-
Poisson model (Equation 2). These have been developed from biologically
plausible assumptions about the infection process. Models may fit available data
in a statistically acceptable sense and yet provide very different estimates for the
risk at an extrapolated low dose; a situation that has frequently caused argument
in chemical risk assessment. In QMRA, it may be possible to test the potential
appropriateness of different dose-response functions by validating with outbreak
data (Eisenberg et al., 1998).




                                         90
     Exponential model:
          Probabilityinfection = 1 – exp(-rD)                       Equation 1
    Where D = pathogen dose; r = fraction of pathogens that survives to
produce an infection.
     Beta-Poisson model:
          Probabilityinfection = 1 – (1 + (D/ID50))-α               Equation 2
      Where D = pathogen dose; α and ID50 are parameters of the beta-
distribution used to describe variability in survival.

     Given a set of dose-response data, i.e. exposure of populations to various
doses of microorganisms and measurement of response (such as infection), the
best fitting parameters of a dose-response relationship may be computed via
standard maximum likelihood techniques. The method has been used for human
viruses, parasitic protozoa and some bacterial pathogens (Haas et al., 1999).
Confidence limits to the parameters can then be estimated, and used as a basis
for low-dose extrapolation (Kang et al., 2000). It should be noted that, in
general, dose-response studies have been conducted on healthy adults and may
not reflect the response of the general population or of more susceptible
population segments.

      During an outbreak, individuals are exposed to different levels of the
pathogen(s): the volume of water ingested may be coupled with data on the
level of contamination of the water. These data can provide a dose-response
relationship confirming volunteer studies. Furthermore, information on
susceptible sub-populations (such as children and the immuno-compromised)
may also be forthcoming. For example, waterborne outbreaks of
cryptosporidiosis indicate that the general population may contract watery
diarrhoea that lasts up to several days, whereas HIV-patients may be untreatable
and die, thereby creating a much more significant health burden if the latter are
included in a risk assessment (Perz et al., 1998).

     Volunteer feeding studies have provided data on the dose-response curve
for several pathogens (Haas et al., 1999). It is, however, often difficult to obtain
data on low doses as large numbers of volunteers would be needed to define the
lower bounds of the dose-response curve. It is also difficult to extrapolate from
a single strain to give a generalised model for a pathogen. Virulence differs
from one strain to another and the outcomes are often very different (e.g. E. coli
enteropathogenic versus non-enteropathogenic strains). The debate around the
human health significance of exposure to human versus animal strains of
Cryptosporidium parvum is another example. Feeding trials with three different


                                         91
bovine strains of C. parvum have generated 50% infective doses (ID50) for
oocysts in healthy human volunteers ranging between 9 and 1 042 (Okhuysen
et al., 1999). Such a wide range is potentially problematic as the ID50 is the
parameter defining the slope of the dose-response curve in the beta-Poisson
model. A further complication is that pre-existing immunity may provide
protection from infection and illness at low oocyst doses (Chappell et al., 1999),
thereby changing the low dose-response extrapolation in a manner not
accounted for by any current model.

     Relatively few data points are used to generate the curve and the degree of
uncertainty over the position of each data point is high. Each data point is a
sample mean of the probability of illness for people exposed to a set dose of
pathogen. The confidence intervals for each sample mean will be wide. It is
unlikely that all the measured points exactly correspond with the true population
means for each dose. In such circumstances it is impossible to be certain about
what dose-response model would best fit the actual curve (as opposed to the
curve of the sample means). There is, therefore, considerable uncertainty in
which model best fits the actual dose response curve and what its parameters
should be (Coleman and Marks, 1998). The impact of these uncertainties is
most marked at low doses (i.e. at the dose that will most frequently be
experienced in real life). Therefore, the predicted number of illnesses following
low dose exposure can vary by several orders of magnitude (Holcomb et al.,
1999).

3.6.4    Exposure assessment
      The actual dose consumed by an individual is generally unknown and
difficult to estimate. Methods for the detection of some pathogens are not even
available, and most pathogens occur at very low levels in treated water
(generally below detection). The general level of some pathogens
(e.g. enteroviruses, Giardia, Cryptosporidium), however, are available for
sewage and untreated water. These raw water values can be used, along with the
proportion of surrogate removed by treatment, to indirectly estimate the level of
individual pathogens after treatment, thereby providing an estimate of the ‘dose’
in the water. The possible uses of surrogates and indicators are further discussed
below.

      For drinking waters, the volume ingested per ‘exposure’ is relatively well
defined after several studies in a number of countries (e.g. Roseberry and
Burmaster, 1992). A volume of two litres per person per day is often used to
estimate drinking water exposure, but this does not reflect the fact that only a
fraction of that volume is consumed unmodified (especially unboiled). This is
important for QMRA as microorganisms are inactivated by heat; therefore water


                                       92
consumed in hot drinks or used in the preparation of cooked food would not be
a risk factor.

     Viruses and parasites have been detected in drinking water, which was
otherwise apparently safe, without any detectable health effect being seen in the
receiving population (Bouchier, 1998). Possible reasons for this include false
positive detections, the presence of non-infective pathogens and the pathogen is
present in a concentration below that which would be expected to cause
detectable disease in the population. On the other hand, unrealistically large
volumes of drinking water would need to be sampled for example to meet the
USEPA’s level of acceptable waterborne risk (<10-4 infections per annum – see
1.5.1). Translating this for Cryptosporidium parvum would mean that 500
samples of 2 000 litres each would be needed to make a reasonably accurate
estimation of the allowed concentration (7 × 10-6 per litre) (Teunis et al., 1996).
Furthermore, depending on the detection method used, an unknown proportion
of pathogens isolated from the environment may be incapable of causing
infection. Therefore, alternative strategies are recommended to estimate
pathogen concentrations.

      The applications of coliform bacteria to index the pollution of source
water, or as an indicator of water treatment efficacy or recontamination of
treated water have provided little information on health effects in developed
regions. Nonetheless, these organisms can play an important part in estimating
pathogen numbers for a screening-level or first tier of a QMRA. For example,
direct measurement of viral, parasitic protozoa and bacterial pathogens is
possible for sewage effluents, as is the estimation of pathogen prevalence data
for the faeces of some domestic animals. Hence, predictions of pathogens in
source waters can be made if the relative proportion of human and animal faecal
load is determined by, say, the analysis of faecal sterols (Leeming et al., 1998).
For environments where sewage is the primary faecal contaminant, then
pathogen dilutions in source waters can be estimated directly by the dilution of
thermotolerant coliforms (index for bacterial pathogen contamination) and
spores of Clostridium perfringens (index for the hardier viral and protozoan
pathogens) (Medema et al., 1997).

     For physical treatment barriers, such as sand or membrane filters, and for
disinfection by chlorine, ozone or UV, surrogates for pathogen removal are also
generally accepted. Total aerobic spores or spores of C. perfringens are
reasonable surrogates for the cysts and oocysts of parasitic protozoa and
coliphages may also be appropriate for human enteric viruses (Facile et al.,
2000; Hijnen et al., 2000; Ndiongue et al., 2000; Owens et al., 2000). Note that
while coliphages make good models for human virus removal by physical
means, that may not be the case for mixed oxidants (Casteel et al., 2000).


                                        93
3.6.5     Infectious disease models and risk characterisation

     As outlined in the previous sections, attempts to provide a quantitative
assessment of human health risks associated with the ingestion of waterborne
pathogens have generally focused on static models that calculate the probability
of individual infection or disease as a result of a single exposure event. They do
not address the properties that are unique to infectious disease transmission such
as secondary transmission, immunity and population dynamics (Haas and
Eisenberg, 2001). To understand the role that water plays in the transmission of
enteric pathogens and to estimate the risk of disease due to drinking water
within a defined population it is important to study the complete disease
transmission system, as illustrated in Figure 3.2. It is also important to recognise
the additional pathways that describe the natural history of enteric pathogens:
animal-to-environment-person, person-to-environment-to-person, and person-
to-person (Eisenberg et al., 2001).

      A fundamental concept in disease transmission models is the reproduction
number, R0, which is defined as the number of infections that result from the
introduction of one index case into a population of susceptible individuals.
Therefore, R0 is a measure of the ability of a pathogen to move through a
population. An R0 >1 suggests that the pathogen is multiplying within a
community and that prevalence is increasing, whereas an R0 <1 suggests that the
disease is dying out of the population. An R0 that is on average equal to 1
suggests that the disease is endemic in the population. There are various
methods to estimate R0 for different pathogens and in different environmental
settings (Dietz, 1993). Measles, for example, is a highly infectious respiratory
transmitted disease and has been estimated to have an R0 of approximately 14.
Polio, on the other hand, a waterborne pathogen has an R0 of approximately 6.




                                        94
           Figure 3.2. Conceptual model for rotavirus infection pathways

                              (from Haas and Eisenberg, 2001)



                                                 S

                         Latency              Exposure               Incubation
                                β  SC
                                                               βSD


                        C               βPC              βPD             D

                       σCP                    Exposure                 σDP

                                                 P

                                                                 γ

S: susceptible = not infectious, not symptomatic. C: carrier = infectious, not symptomatic.
D: diseased = infectious, symptomatic. P: post Infection = not infectious, not symptomatic with
short-term or partial immunity.


    Summarising the previous sections, the individual daily dose of pathogenic
microorganisms via some particular product may be calculated as (Teunis et al.,
1996):

                             1
            Dose = C ×         × I × 10 − DR × V                                  Equation 3
                             R
     C = Concentration of pathogenic microorganisms in raw (source) materials
(or partially processed products, if data are available).
     R = Recovery of the detection method.
     I = Fraction of the detected pathogens that is capable of infection
(viability).
     DR = Removal or inactivation efficiency of the treatment process,
expressed as its Decimal Reduction factor (DR = 0 when concentrations in the
finished product are available).
     V = Daily individual consumption of the considered product.


                                                 95
     In many cases, risk evaluations start from the assumption that the dose-
response relationship is approximately linear at low doses. Therefore, at very
low doses, calculation of the risk of infection simply consists of multiplying the
dose estimate with the slope of the dose-response relationship. Estimates of
daily risk may be extrapolated to yearly risk. When P1* and Pn* are the
probabilities of infection after a single (e.g. daily) exposure and after repeated
exposures (n times a daily exposure) respectively:

           Pn* = 1 − (1 − P1* ) n ≈ n × P1*                         Equation 4

      The latter simplification is valid as long as P1* << 1 (Haas et al., 1999).
      From the above discussions it would seem that microbial data, whether
relating to indicator parameters or pathogens, have most relevance to the
exposure assessment phase of QMRA. These provide estimates of actual levels
of pathogens in water or the likelihood that water is exposed to faecal pollution.
However, caution must be exercised in assuming a direct relationship between
this level and risk to health. Despite the use of numbers and mathematical
equations, QMRA is not yet an exact science.

3.7       Qualitative risk assessment

     Qualitative methods for analysing microbial hazards and managing risks
are commonplace within the food industry. They are applied as part of a
systematic process including Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP)
(Coleman and Marks, 1999), which has recently been taken up by the water
industry (Havelaar, 1994; Barry et al., 1998; Deere and Davison,1998; Gray and
Morain, 2000; Deere et al., 2001; Dewettinck et al., 2001; Davison et al., 2002).

      Although hazard identification and exposure assessment are common
issues across qualitative and quantitative methods, dose-response models and
risk characterisation steps (Table 3.3), are usually replaced with risk rankings in
qualitative assessments. These rankings are generally derived from expert
opinion summarising:

 •     Likelihood of possible risk pathways.
 •     Severity of outcome from each pathway.
 •     Numbers of people that may be impacted.




                                          96
      Water agencies are now focusing on the whole system approach, as
illustrated in Figure 3.3, which includes an assessment of all types of physical,
chemical and microbiological risks. Possible ranking schemes are numerous,
but follow the generic structure indicated in Table 3.4, with Table 3.5
illustrating a simple risk scoring table.

              Table 3.4. Possible qualitative risk assessment approach to
                          rank or scale hazardous scenarios

           Step                                           Comment
1. Hazard scenario         Identification of hazardous scenarios, such as massive rainfall-
                           induced contamination of source water, filter breakthrough or
                           loss/breakdown of chemical disinfection system (i.e. not
                           necessarily limited to a single pathogen).
2. Likelihood              Ranking or scaling of how likely the event is (e.g. # events per
                           year).
3. Consequence             Ranking or scaling of the consequence (e.g. short-term injury or
                           ill-health through to permanent disability or death).
4. Scale of effect         Consideration of the number of people affected by the hazard
                           scenario.
5. Risk score              Different weightings may be given to (2) to (3) and multiplied to
                           give a value for each hazard scenario.
6. Rank                    Each hazard scenario is then ranked, to provide a priority list for
                           risk management.


                  Table 3.5. Simple risk scoring table for prioritising risks

                                       (Davison et al., 2002)

                                             Severity of consequences
Likelihood             Insignificant       Minor       Moderate         Major     Catastrophic
Almost certain              5               10             15             20          25
Likely                      4                8             12             16          20
Moderate                    3                6              9             12          15
Unlikely                    2                4              6              8          10
Rare                        1                2              3              4           5
The risk score for a particular hazard = likelihood × severity of consequences.


     An example of the descriptive terms that can be used to rate the likelihood
and severity for calculation of the risk score is given in Table 3.6.



                                                 97
           Figure 3.3. Generic flow diagram for sources of microbial risk in a drinking water context

                                        (Adapted from Stevens et al., 1995)




                      Reservoir/                                    Customer                      RISK
      Catchment                      Treatment      Reticulation                    Exposure
                        River                                         Tap


                                     Treatment         Open             Cross                     Infectivity/
     Urban Runoff    Algal Blooms                                                   Consumption
                                    Effectiveness     Storages      Contamination                  Viability


                                     Treatment
                                                      Pipeline                        Water
     Septic Tanks      Sediments      Process
                                                      Growths                         Uses
                                       Upset




98
       Native            Short                          Cross
       Animals         Circuiting                   Contamination



        Human                                        Maintenance
       Pollution                                    Contamination


      Upstream
       Sewage
      Treatment


      Grazing/
      Domestic
      Animals
           Table 3.6. Example descriptive terms for risk score calculation

                                 (Davison et al., 2002)

  Item                    Definition                                 Weighting
  Almost certain          Once a day                                     5
  Likely                  Once per week                                  4
  Moderate                Once per month                                 3
  Unlikely                Once per year                                  2
  Rare                    Once every five years                          1
  Catastrophic            Potentially lethal to large population         5
  Major                   Potentially lethal to small population         4
  Moderate                Potentially harmful to large population        3
  Minor                   Potentially harmful to small population        2
  Insignificant           No impact or not detectable                    1


     Compared to both epidemiological and quantitative microbial risk
assessment, this approach does not seek to determine actual levels of disease
associated with a supply. As such, criticisms cannot be made that the
conclusions are imprecise compared with reality. The other advantage that this
approach has over other methods is that out of the process itself solutions to
minimise risk will present themselves. On the other hand, reliance on ‘expert
opinion’ does not always produce the correct answer as experts’ opinions and
models of the world are often subject to bias and inaccuracies as with any other
source of data (Hunter and Fewtrell, 2001).


3.7.1      Indicators and qualitative microbial risk assessment

     Microbial and other indicator analyses will be a major source of evidence
at several stages of qualitative risk assessment. The role of such information in
conducting assessments of source water quality, treatment efficacy and integrity
of the distribution system are discussed in more details in Chapters 4–6.

     As will be seen, studies on the presence of indicator organisms frequently
provide more useful information for qualitative risk assessment than do studies
on enumeration of specific pathogens. Nevertheless, well-designed studies of
specific pathogens can also be of great value in certain situation. For example,
the detection of E. coli, faecal streptococci or sulphite-reducing Clostridia in
source water all indicate that the water is subject to contamination from human
or animal faeces. Detection and typing of Cryptosporidium in source water will


                                           99
give a better understanding of the risk to the water supply system and the
sources of contamination.

     Coliform bacteria in treated water may give an indication that water
treatment systems are not operating satisfactorily or that water is becoming
contaminated within the distribution system. However, coliform bacteria alone
are not good indicators of risk from chlorine-resistant pathogens such as
Cryptosporidium. Some indicator organisms may be naturally present in the
source water or can be deliberately seeded into the inlet to a water treatment
works and monitored at various stages in the treatment and distribution in order
to demonstrate the effectiveness of the whole system.


3.8      Summary

      Microbial and other indicator parameters play an essential role in all the
models used in the assessment of risk discussed in this chapter. However, the
exact relationship between these indicator parameters and risk to health is still
far from clear. Although studies have shown that turbidity and faecal
streptococci are independent indicators of health risk there is no clear-cut
predictive relationship. Even where information on pathogens in potable water
is available, current quantitative risk assessment models have considerable
uncertainty in their calculated risk. Perhaps the real value of such indicator
parameters is in qualitative risk assessment where they can be used for
identifying where failures may occur in the water extraction, treatment and
distribution system.




                                      100
                               REFERENCES



Andersson, Y. and Bohan, P. (2001) Disease surveillance and waterborne
     outbreaks. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health.
     Assessment of Risk and Risk management for Water-related Infectious
     Disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp.
     115-133.

Barry, S.J., Atwill, E.R., Tate, K.W., Koopman, T.S., Cullor, J. and Huff, T.
      (1998) Developing and implementing a HACCP-based programme to
      control Cryptosporidium and other waterborne pathogens in the Alameda
      Creek watershed: Case study. American Water Works Association
      Annual Conference, 21-25 June 1998, Dallas. Texas Water Resources
      Vol. B, 57-69.

Batik, O., Craun, G.F. and Pipes, W.O. (1983) Routine coliform monitoring and
       water-borne disease outbreaks. Journal of Environmental Health 45, 227-
       230.

Batik, O., Craun, G.F., Tuthil, R.W. and Kroemer, D.F. (1979) An
       epidemiologic study of the relationship between hepatitis A and water
       supply characteristics and treatment. American Journal of Public Health
       70, 167-169.

Beaudeau, P., Payment, P., Bourderont, D., Mansotte, F., Boudhabay, O.,
     Laubiès, B. and Verdière, J. (1999) A time series study of anti-diarrheal
     drug sales and tap-water quality. International Journal of Environmental
     Health Research 9(4), 293-312.

Blum, D. and Feachem, R.G. (1983) Measuring the impact of water supply and
     sanitation investments on diarrhoeal diseases: problems of methodology.
     International Journal of Epidemiology 12(3), 357-365.

Blumenthal, U.J., Fleisher, J.M., Esrey, S.A. and Peasey, A. (2001)
     Epidemiology: a tool for the assessment of risk. In: Water Quality:
     Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of risk and risk


                                     101
      management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
      Bartram, J. (Eds.). IWA Publishing, London. pp135-160.

Bouchier, I. (1998) Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies. Third Report of the
     Group of Experts to Department of the Environment, Transport and the
     Regions and Department of Health. November, 1998. Drinking Water
     Inspectorate, London.
     http://www.dwi.detr.gov.uk/pubs/bouchier/index.htm pages.

Casteel, M.J., Sobsey, M.D. and Arrowood, M.J. (2000) Inactivation of
      Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts and other microbes in water and
      wastewater by electrochemically generated mixed oxidants. Water Science
      and Technology 41(7), 127-134.

Chappell, C.L., Okhuysen, P.C., Sterling, C.R., Wang, C., Jakubowski, W. and
     DuPont, H.L. (1999) Infectivity of Cryptosporidium parvum in healthy
     adults with pre-existing anti-C. parvum serum immunoglobulin G.
     American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 60(1),157-164.

Chorus, I. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) (1999) Toxic Cyanobacteria in Water. E&FN
     Spon, London.

Coleman, M. and Marks, H. (1998) Topics in dose-response modelling. Journal
     of Food Protection 61, 1550-1559.

Coleman, M.E. and Marks, H.M. (1999) Qualitative and quantitative risk
     assessment. Food Control 10, 289-297.

Collin, J.F., Milet, J.J., Morlot, M. and Foliguet, J.M. (1981) Eau d’adduction et
      gastroentérites en Meurthe-et-Moselle. J. Franc. Hydrologie 12, 155-174.

Craun, G.F., Berger, P.S. and Calderon, R.L. (1997) Coliform bacteria and
     waterborne disease outbreaks. Journal of the American Water Works
     Association 89(3), 96-104.

Davison, A., Howard, G., Stevens, M., Callan, P., Kirby, R., Deere, D. and
     Bartram, J. (2002) Water Safety Plans. WHO/SHE/WSH/02/09 World
     Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

Deere, D., Stevens, M., Davison, A., Helm, G. and Dufour, A. (2001)
      Management Strategies. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and
      Health. Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related



                                       102
      infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing,
      London. pp. 257-288.

Deere, D.A. and Davison, A.D. (1998) Safe drinking water. Are food guidelines
      the answer? Water 25, 21-24.

Dewettinck, T., Van Houtte, E., Geenens, D., Van Hege, K. and Verstraete, W.
     (2001) HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) to
     guarantee safe water reuse and drinking water production – a case study.
     Water Science and Technology 43(12), 31-38.

Dietz, K. (1993) The estimation of the basic reproduction number for infectious
       diseases. Statistical Methods in Medical Research 2, 23-41.

Duim, B., Ang, C.W, van Belkum, A., Rigter, A., van Leeuwen, N.W.J., Endtz,
     H.P. and Wagenaar, J.A. (2000) Amplified fragment length polymorphism
     analysis of Campylobacter jejuni strains isolated from chickens and from
     patients with gastroenteritis or Guillain-Barré or Miller Fisher Syndrome.
     Applied and Environmental Microbiology 66(9), 3917-3923.

Edberg, S.L., Pisticelli, V. and Cartter, M. (1986) Phenotypic characteristics of
     coliform and non coliform bacteria from a public water supply compared
     with regional and national clinical species. Applied and Environmental
     Microbiology 52, 474-478.

Eisenberg, J.N.S., Bartram, J. and Hunter, P.R. (2001) A public health perspective
      for establishing water-related guidelines and standards. In: Water Quality:
      Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of risk and risk
      management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
      Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp. 229-256.

Eisenberg, J.N.S., Seto, E.Y.W., Colford, J., Olivieri, A.W. and Spear, R.C.
      (1998) An analysis of the Milwaukee Cryptosporidium outbreak based on a
      dynamic model of disease transmission. Epidemiology 9(3), 255-263.

Esrey, S.A., Feachem, R.G. and Hughes, J.M. (1985) Interventions for the control
      of diarrhoeal diseases among young children: improving water supplies and
      excreta disposal facilities. Bulletin of the World Health Organization 63(4),
      757-772.

Esrey, S.A., Potash, J.B., Roberts, L. and Schiff, C. (1991) Effects of improved
      water supply and sanitation on ascariasis, diarrhoea, dracunculiasis,



                                       103
      hookworm infection, schistosomiasis and trachoma. Bulletin of the World
      Health Organization 69(5), 609-621.

Facile, N., Barbeau, B., Prévost, M. and Koudjonou, B. (2000) Evaluating
       bacterial aerobic spores as a surrogate for Giardia and Cryptosporidium
       inactivation by ozone. Water Research 34(12), 3238-3246.

Fattal, B., Guttman-Bass, N., Agursky, T. and Shuval, H.I. (1988) Evaluation of
       health risk associated with drinking water quality in agricultural
       communities. Water Science and Technology 20, 409-415.

Ferley, J.P., Zmirou, D., Collin, J.F. and Charrel, M. (1986) Etude longitudinale
      des risques liés à la consommation d' eaux non conformes aux normes
      bactériologiques. Rev. Epidemiol. Sante Publique 34, 89-99.

Frisk, G., Nilsson, E., Tuvemo, T., Friman, G. and Diderholm, H. (1992) The
       possible role of coxsackie A and echo viruses in the pathogenesis of type 1
       diabetes mellitus studied by IgM analysis. Journal of Infection 24, 13-22.

Frost, F.J., Craun, G.F. and Calderon, R.L. (1996) Waterborne disease
       surveillance. Journal of the American Water Works Association 88(9), 66-
       75.

Gordis, L. (2000) Epidemiology 2nd Edition. W.B Saunders Company,
      Philadelphia.

Gostin, L.O., Lazzarini, Z., Neslund, V.S. and Osterholm, M.T. (2000) Water
      quality laws and waterborne diseases: Cryptosporidium and other emerging
      pathogens. American Journal of Public Health 90(6), 847-853.

Gray, R. and Morain, M. (2000) HACCP application to Brisbane Water. Water
      27, 41-42.

Gurgan, T. and Diker, K.S. (1994) Abortion associated with Campylobacter
     upsaliensis. Journal of Clinical Microbiology 32, 3093-3094.

Haas, C. and Eisenberg, J, N.S. (2001) Risk assessment. In: Water Quality:
      Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of risk and risk
      management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
      Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp. 161-183.

Haas, C.N., Rose, J.B. and Gerba, C.P. (1999) Quantitative Microbial Risk
      Assessment. John Wiley, New York.


                                       104
Havelaar, A.H. (1994) Application of HACCP to drinking water supply. Food
     Control 5, 145-152.

Havelaar, A.H., de Wit, M.A.S. and van Koningsveld, R. (2000) Healthburden in
      the Netherlands (1990-1995) due to infections with thermophilic
      Campylobacter species. Report no. 284550 004. RIVM (National Institute
      of Public Health and the Environment), Bilthoven.

Havelaar, A.H., Schets, F.M., van Silfhout, A., Jansen, W.H., Wieten, G. and van
      der Kooij, D. (1992) Typing of Aeromonas strains from patients with
      diarrhoea and from drinking water. Journal of Applied Bacteriology 72(5),
      435-444.

Hijnen, W.A.M., Willemsen-Zwaagstra, J., Hiemstra, P., Medema, G.J. and van
      der Kooij, D. (2000) Removal of sulphite-reducing clostridia spores by
      full-scale water treatment processes as a surrogate for protozoan (oo)cysts
      removal. Water Science and Technology 41(7), 165-171.

Holcomb, D.L., Smith, M.A., Ware, M.A., Hung, Y.-C., Brackett, R.E. and
     Doyle, M.P. (1999) Comparison of six dose-response models for use with
     food-borne pathogens. Risk Analysis 19, 1091-1100.

Hunter, P.R. (2000) Modelling the impact of prior immunity, case
      misclassification and bias on case-control studies in the investigation of
      outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis. Epidemiology and Infection 125, 713-718.

Hunter, P.R. and Fewtrell, L. (2001) Acceptable risk. In: Water Quality:
     Guidelines, Standards and Health. Assessment of risk and risk
     management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
     Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London. pp.207-227.

Hunter, P.R. and Syed, Q. (2001) Community surveys of self-reported diarrhoea
     can dramatically overestimate the size of outbreaks of waterborne
     cryptosporidiosis. Water Science and Technology 43(12), 27-30.

Isaäcson, M. and Sayed, A.R. (1988) Health aspects of the use of recycled water
      in Windhoek, SWA/Namibia, 1974-1983. Diarrhoeal diseases and the
      consumption of reclaimed water. South Africa Medical Journal 7, 596-9.

Kang, S.H., Kodell, R.L. and Chen, J.J. (2000) Incorporating model
      uncertainties along with data uncertainties in microbial risk assessment.
      Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology 32(1), 68-72.



                                       105
Kühn, I., Albert, M.J., Ansaruzzaman, M., Bhuiyan, N.A., Alabi, S.A., Islam,
      M.S., Neogi, P.K.B., Huys, G., Janssen, P., Kersters, K. and Möllby, R.
      (1997) Characterization of Aeromonas spp. isolated from humans with
      diarrhea, from healthy controls, and from surface water in Bangladesh.
      Journal of Clinical Microbiology 35(2), 369-373.

LeChevallier, M.W., Abbaszadegan, M., Camper, A.K., Hurst, C.J., Izaguirre, G.,
     Marshall, M.M., Nauovitz, D., Payment, P., Rice, E.W., Rose, J., Schaub,
     S., Slifko, T.R., Smith, D.B., Smith, H.V., Sterling, C.R. and Stewart, M.
     (1999a) Committee report: emerging pathogens - bacteria. Journal of the
     American Water Works Association 91(9), 101-109.

LeChevallier, M.W., Abbaszadegan, M., Camper, A.K., Hurst, C.J., Izaguirre, G.,
     Marshall, M.M., Nauovitz, D., Payment, P., Rice, E.W., Rose, J., Schaub,
     S., Slifko, T.R., Smith, D.B., Smith, H.V., Sterling, C.R. and Stewart, M.
     (1999b) Committee report: emerging pathogens - viruses, protozoa, and
     algal toxins. Journal of the American Water Works Association 91(9), 110-
     121.

Leeming, R., Bate, N., Hewlett, R. and Nichols, P.D. (1998) Discriminating
     faecal pollution: a case study of stormwater entering Port Philip Bay,
     Australia. Water Science and Technology 38(10), 15-22.

Levy, D.A., Bens, M.S., Craun, G.F., Calderon, R.L. and Herwaldt, B.L. (1998)
      Surveillance for waterborne-disease outbreaks -- United States, 1995-1996.
      Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 47(SS-5), 1-34.

Macgill, S., Fewtrell, L., Chudley, J. and Kay, D. (2001) Quality audit and the
     assessment of waterborne risk. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards
     and Health. Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related
     infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing,
     London. pp. 185-206.

MacKenzie, W.R., Hoxie, N.J., Proctor, M.E., Gradus, M.S., Blair, K.A.,
    Peterson, D.E., Kazmierczak, J.J., Addiss, D.G., Fox, K.R., Rose, J.B.
    and Davis, J.P. (1994) A massive outbreak in Milwaukee of
    Cryptosporidium infection transmitted through the public water supply.
    New England Journal of Medicine 331, 161-167.

Maki-Ikola, O. and Granfors, K. (1992) Salmonella-triggered reactive arthritis.
      Lancet 339, 1096-1098.




                                       106
Medema, G.J., Bahar, M. and Schets, F.M. (1997) Survival of Cryptosporidium
    parvum, Escherichia coli, faecal enterococci and Clostridium perfringens
    in river water - influence of temperature and autochthonous
    microorganisms. Water Science and Technology 35(11-12), 249-252.

Morris, R.D., Naumova, E.N., Levin, R. and Munasinghe, R.L. (1996)
      Temporal variation in drinking water turbidity and diagnosed gastro-
      enteritis in Milwaukee. American Journal of Public Health 86, 237-239.

National Research Council (1983) Risk Assessment in the Federal Government:
      Managing the Process. National Academy Press, Washington, DC.

Ndiongue, S., Desjardins, R. and Prévost, M. (2000) Relationships between total
     particle count, aerobic spore-forming bacteria and turbidity in direct
     filtration. Aqua 49(2), 75-87.

Niklasson, B., Hörnfeldt, B. and Lundman, B. (1998) Could myocarditis, insulin-
      dependent diabetes mellitus and Guillain-Barré syndrome be caused by one
      or more infectious agents carried by rodents? Emerging Infectious Diseases
      4(2), 187-193.

Okhuysen, P.C., Chappell, C.L., Crabb, J.H., Sterling, C.R. and DuPont, H.L.
     (1999) Virulence of three distinct Cryptosporidium parvum isolates for
     healthy adults. Journal of Infectious Diseases 180(4), 1275-1281.

Owens, J.H., Miltner, R.J., Rice, E.W., Johnson, C.H., Dahling, D.R., Schaefer,
     F.W. and Shukairy, H.M. (2000) Pilot-scale ozone inactivation of
     Cryptosporidium and other microorganisms in natural water. Ozone-Sci.
     Eng. 22(5), 501-517.

Payment, P., Richardson, L., Siemiatycki, J., Dewar, R., Edwardes, M. and
     Franco, E. (1991) A randomized trial to evaluate the risk of
     gastrointestinal disease due to the consumption of drinking water meeting
     currently accepted microbiological standards. American Journal of Public
     Health 81, 703-708.

Payment, P., Siemiatycki, J., Richardson, L., Renaud, G., Franco, E. and
     Prévost, M. (1997) A prospective epidemiological study of
     gastrointestinal health effects due to the consumption of drinking water.
     International Journal of Environmental Health Research 7, 5-31.

Percival, S., Walker, J. and Hunter, P.R. (2000) Microbiological Aspects of
      Biofilms in Drinking Water. CRC Press, Boca Raton.


                                      107
Perz, J.F., Ennever, F.K. and Leblancq, S.M. (1998) Cryptosporidium in tap water
       - comparison of predicted risks with observed levels of disease. American
       Journal of Epidemiology 147, 289-301.

Prüss, A., Kay, D., Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (2002) Estimating the burden of
       disease due to water, sanitation and hygiene at global level. Environmental
       Health Perspectives in press.

Quick, R.E., Venczel, L.V., Mintz, E.D., Soleto, L., Aparicio, J., Gironaz, M.,
      Hutwagner, L., Greene, K., Bopp, C., Maloney, K., Chavez, D., Sobsey, M.
      and Tauxe, R.V. (1999) Diarrhoea prevention in Bolivia through point-of-
      use water treatment and safe storage: a promising new strategy.
      Epidemiology and Infection 122, 83-90.

Roseberry, A.M. and Burmaster, D.E. (1992) Lognormal distributions for water
     intake by children and adults. Risk Analysis 12(1), 99-104.

Schwartz, J., Levin, R. and Goldstein, R. (2000) Drinking water turbidity and
     gastrointestinal illness in the elderly of Philadelphia. Journal of
     Epidemiology and Community Health 54(1), 45-51.

Schwartz, J., Levin, R. and Hodge, K. (1997) Drinking water turbidity and
     pediatric hospital use for gastrointestinal illness in Philadelphia.
     Epidemiology 8, 615-620.

Semenza, J.C., Roberts, L., Henderson, A., Bogan, J. and Rubin, C.H. (1998)
     Water distribution system and diarrhoeal disease transmission: a case
     study in Uzbekistan. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and
     Hygiene 59(6), 941-946.

Stevens, M., McConnell, S., Nadebaum, P.R., Chapman, M., Ananthakumar, S.
      and McNeil, J. (1995) Drinking water quality and treatment requirements:
      A risk-based approach. Water 22, 12-16.

Teunis, P.F.M., van der Heijden, O.G., van der Giessen, J.W.B. and Havelaar,
      A.H. (1996) The dose response relation in human volunteers for gastro-
      intestinal pathogens. Technical report 284 550 002, RIVM (National
      Institute of Public Health and the Environment), Bilthoven.

Walter, S. (1991) The ecological method in the study of environmental health.
      II. Methodologic issues and feasibility. Environmental Health
      Perspectives 94, 67-73.



                                       108
Wheeler, J.G., Sethi, D., Cowden, J.M., Wall, P.G., Rodrigues, L.C., Tompkins,
     D.S., Hudson, M.J., Roderick, P.J. on behalf of the Infectious Intestinal
     Disease Study Executive (1999) Study of infectious intestinal disease in
     England: rates in the community, presenting to general practice, and
     reporting to national surveillance. British Medical Journal 318, 1046-
     1050.

WHO (1993) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Volume 1:
    Recommendations. Second Edition. World Health Organisation, Geneva.

WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Volume 2: Health criteria
    and other supporting information. Second Edition. World Health
    Organisation, Geneva.

WHO (1997) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Volume 3: Surveillance
    and control of community supplies. Second Edition. World Health
    Organisation, Geneva.

Zmirou, D., Ferley, J.P., Collin, J.F., Charrel, M. and Berlin, J. (1987) A
     follow-up study of gastro-intestinal diseases related to bacteriologically
     substandard drinking water. American Journal of Public Health 77, 582-
     584.

Zmirou, D., Rey, S., Courtois, X., Ferley, J.P., Blatier, J.F., Chevallier, P.,
     Boudot, J., Potelon, J.L. and Mounir, R. (1995) Residual microbiological
     risk after simple chlorine treatment of drinking ground water in small
     community systems. European Journal of Public Health 5, 75-81.




                                      109
                                    Chapter 4

                CATCHMENT CHARACTERISATION AND
                     SOURCE WATER QUALITY



      G.J. Medema, S. Shaw, M. Waite, M. Snozzi, A. Morreau and W. Grabow




4.1        Introduction

4.1.1      Select the best available source

      The first, and a key, step in providing safe drinking water is the selection
of the best available source water. The most protected source waters will be the
easiest and the cheapest to transform into safe drinking water. This is a general
principle, and is one that has been known since the times of Plato (Whitlock,
1954). The Romans, for example, abandoned the river Tiber as a drinking water
source in the third century BC and built 14 aqueducts in order to bring clean
water from the surrounding hills. Principle, however, is not always translated
into practice, although such oversights can have dramatic results, with a good
example being provided by the Milwaukee Cryptosporidium outbreak
(MacKenzie et al., 1994), which occurred in the spring of 1993 and was
estimated to have caused illness in 400 000 people. The intake of Milwaukee’s
Howard Avenue drinking water treatment plant was located at a site in Lake
Michigan that directly received the discharge of the Milwaukee River. The
city’s sewage treatment plant discharged into the Milwaukee River just
upstream of the river mouth. Unsurprisingly, this made the intake of the plant
vulnerable to fresh faecal contamination, especially during storm events. A
study in the 1960’s had already shown that this lake area contained high levels
of faecal pollution (Schoenen, 2001). If this information had been used to select
a more appropriate location for the intake point, or to redirect the sewage
discharge, the contamination level during spring 1993 would very likely have




                                       111
been significantly lower and perhaps a major outbreak would have been
avoided.

      In general, groundwater is better protected than surface water.
Groundwater from deep aquifers is protected from pathogen contamination by
the covering soil layers. Rain water or other water (such as from surface water
infiltration, irrigation, sewer leakage etc.) that percolates through the soil can
harbour pathogens but these are effectively removed by attachment to soil
particles, die-off and biological processes (e.g. predation). Pathogen die-off
during the extended time of travel from the surface through the ground to the
point of abstraction in low permeability aquifers is also an important factor in
reducing microbial risk. Deep groundwater from confined or semi-confined
aquifers is therefore a preferred source for drinking water production. Shallower
groundwater sources or groundwater that can be influenced by surface water
will be more vulnerable to faecal contamination. Fine-textured soils (clay, silt)
retain pathogens better than light-textured soils (sand). Soil types with a very
coarse texture (fractured rock, sand and limestone, gravel) or cracks provide a
relatively poor barrier against microbial contamination. Here, contact between
pathogens and soil particles is less intense, leading to a lower attachment rate
and greater penetration of the pathogens into the soil (REF – groundwater text).

     Groundwater is not always available of suitable quality (because of salt,
arsenic or fluoride content for example) or in adequate quantity. Additionally,
groundwater abstraction requires drilling and pumping equipment that is not
always available or sustainable especially in developing countries. Therefore,
many communities rely on surface water as a source.


4.1.2    Catchment protection

     Catchment protection is the second step in providing safe drinking water
and where, for whatever reasons, source choice is limited it presents a key
opportunity to minimise pathogen contamination. A major hazard to drinking
water safety is presented by ‘precipitation’ events (rain, snowmelt), where large
quantities of faecal material may be washed from the catchment into the water
source, leading to the possibility of overwhelming treatment barriers and
resulting in pathogen breakthrough into the finished water.

     The importance of peak precipitation events is illustrated by a recent study
in the USA. Rose et al. (2000) examined the relationship between waterborne
disease outbreaks and precipitation in Pennsylvania and Colorado. The
groundwater outbreaks in Pennsylvania occurred mainly in the lower river
systems (Delaware, Schuylkill and Susquehanna River) where soil types are


                                       112
sandstone, carbonate rock and semi-consolidated sand, soil types that are
vulnerable to pathogen (especially virus) penetration. The surface water
outbreaks were scattered. Both groundwater and surface water outbreaks in
Colorado were mostly associated with the Upper River Platte watershed and
tributaries that are influenced by large cities (Denver). By correlating the time
of the outbreaks with the occurrence and intensity of precipitation in the month
of the outbreak or the month(s) prior to the outbreak, they associated 20 - 40%
of the waterborne outbreaks in Pennsylvania and Colorado to periods of
extreme precipitation (highest 10% of precipitation), for both surface water and
groundwater related outbreaks. A larger scale study, which examined outbreaks
and precipitation data for a 47 year period found that 51% of waterborne
outbreaks (excluding those related to recreational water, cross-connection or
back siphonage) were preceded by extreme precipitation (Curriero et al., 2001).

      Depending upon the nature of the catchment it may be possible to protect
against such events by minimising possible contamination sources by, for
example, removing grazing animals and diverting sewage overflows and
discharge points. Where this is not feasible, a strategy for dealing with such
events should be implemented. The remainder of this chapter looks at possible
sources of contamination, the transport and survival of pathogens in surface and
ground water and at the use of indicator parameters for informing management
strategies.


4.2      Sources of faecal contamination

     Humans, livestock and wild animals are all sources of faecal
contamination, with pathogens being excreted in the faeces and occasionally
urine. In general, human faecal wastes give rise to the highest risk of
waterborne disease, since the probability of human pathogens being present is
highest. Human enteric viruses (such as Norwalk-like caliciviruses, hepatitis A
and E viruses, rotaviruses and enteroviruses) in water originate predominantly
from human faecal material. Also Shigella spp., responsible for many
waterborne disease cases and a large proportion of the deaths from waterborne
disease (Traverso, 1996), is (almost) exclusively from human faecal origin.
Other pathogens, such as Campylobacter sp., Salmonella spp. and
Cryptosporidium sp., are present in both human and animal wastes. The
probability of pathogens being present in these wastes depends on the presence
of infected individuals that shed the pathogen.




                                      113
4.2.1       Sources of surface water pollution

     Surveys of pathogen occurrence in the sewage systems of urbanised areas
show that pathogen presence in sewage and sewage effluents is the rule rather
than the exception (Table 4.1). Treatment of sewage by sedimentation and
activated sludge, for example, reduces the concentration of pathogens by 1-2
logs (90-99% reduction), but effluent still contains high levels of pathogens and
indicator organisms. Even in (chlorine) disinfected sewage with low or no
thermotolerant coliforms detectable in the effluent, viruses and protozoa are still
likely to be present.

  Table 4.1. Typical concentrations of enteric pathogens and index organisms in
                       raw and treated domestic wastewater

Microorganism                              Raw sewage                 Secondary effluent
                                           (numbers/litre)            (numbers/litre)
Pathogens
Parasites
        Cryptosporidium sp.                1 000 – 10 000             10 – 1 000
        Giardia sp.                        5 000 – 50 000             50 – 500
Viruses
Enteroviruses                              10 – 100                   1 – 10
        Norwalk like viruses               10 – 1 000                 1 – 100
        Rotavirus                          10 – 100                   1 – 10
Bacteria
        Salmonella spp.                    100 – 10 000               10 – 10 000
Index parameters
                                              7      9                   6      8
Coliforms                                  10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              6      8                   5      7
Thermotolerant coliforms / E.coli          10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              6      7                   4      6
Enterococci                                10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              5      6                   4      5
Clostridium perfringens                    10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              6      7                   5      6
F-RNA phages                               10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              6      7                   5      6
Somatic coliphages                         10 - 10                    10 - 10
                                              4      5                   3      4
Bacteroides phages                         10 - 10                    10 - 10
Source: Rolland et al., 1983; Payment et al., 1986: Tartera et al., 1988, 1989; Funderburg and
Sorber, 1985; WRc, 1991; Havelaar et al., 1986, 1993; Koenraad et al., 1994; Schijven and Rijs,
2000.


    Stormwater discharges are a major cause of rapid deterioration in surface
water quality. Storm events bring an elevation of turbidity, suspended solids,
organic matter and faecal contamination into the drainage basin, caused by


                                             114
urban and agricultural run-off, discharges from stormwater sewers and
re-suspension of sediments. The microbiological quality of stormwater varies
widely and reflects human activities in the watershed. Geldreich (1990) found
that stormwater in combined sewers had more than 10-fold higher
thermotolerant coliform levels (8.9 x 106 - 4.4 x 107/l) than separate stormwater
sewers (1.0 x 105 - 3.5 x 106/l).

      Livestock are a well-known source of waterborne pathogens. Several
outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis in the USA, Canada and UK have been
associated with the contamination of water by run-off from livestock (Craun
et al., 1998). At least one representative of pathogenic genera including
Cryptosporidium, Giardia, Campylobacter, Salmonella, Yersinia and E. coli
O157 are considered to be zoonotic. They are shed by infected livestock (Table
4.2) and may contaminate water sources and, thus, may be transmitted and
infect humans.

      Table 4.2. Percentage of animals shedding selected zoonotic pathogens

                      % of animals shedding pathogens (no. of pathogens/kg wet weight)
                                                                                    Waterfow
      Pathogens       Cattle    Calves       Sheep     Pig      Poultry   Rodents
                                                                                       l
                                20 – 90                            9
Cryptosporidium sp.                          8 - 40   5 - 20                30      13 - 100
                               (106 - 107)                       (106)
                                57 – 97
Giardia sp.                                                               10 - 95    6 - 50
                               (106 - 107)
Campylobacter spp.                                                         1 - 10    1 - 10
Salmonella spp.        13                    4 - 15   7 - 22
Yersinia sp.                                          1 - 10
Pathogenic E.coli      3.5                    2.0     1.5 - 9
Source: Erlandsen, 1994; Geldreich, 1996; Casemore et al., 1997; Medema, 1999; Schijven and
Rijs, 2000.

      Wild animals are another source of faecal contamination. In general
mammals and birds (waterfowl) may shed human pathogens. Cryptosporidium
parvum has been detected in a wide variety of wild mammals such as foxes,
rabbits and a variety of rodents (squirrels, rats, mice, voles, hamsters) (Fayer
et al., 1997). Cross transmission has been demonstrated between a number of
these mammalian hosts (Fayer et al., 1990). Recent reports indicate that
waterfowl may shed viable oocysts of C. parvum after ingestion of these
oocysts (Grazcyk et al., 1996). Moreover, naturally infected Canada geese were
shown to carry and shed the zoonotic strain of C. parvum (Grazcyk
et al., 1998). Hence, birds that feed on sewage sludge or agricultural lands may
ingest C. parvum oocysts and are a potential source of water contamination and
zoonotic transmission.


                                             115
     Several waterborne outbreaks of giardiasis have been related to
contamination of water by beavers and also by muskrats, another aquatic
mammal with an even higher prevalence of Giardia sp. (Moore et al., 1969;
Dykes et al., 1980). These reports, however, have been criticised, as the
evidence provided was only circumstantial (Woo, 1984; Erlandsen, 1994).
Other pathogens that have been implicated in waterborne illness, which also
originate from wildlife are Campylobacter sp., Yersinia sp. and Salmonella spp.
The carrier incidence of Salmonella spp. in waterfowl is generally 1-5%, but
may be as high as over 20% in seagulls scavenging near sewage outfalls
(Fenlon, 1981). Campylobacter spp. has been isolated from birds and rodents
(Table 4.2).

     In well-protected surface water catchments, upland reservoirs and
mountain streams, wildlife may be the most important source of faecal
pollution. For example, several cases in the Netherlands show that these
systems are most at risk during late winter/early spring, when bird loads on the
(partly frozen) reservoirs are high. When thaw sets in, the bird faeces that have
collected on the ice enter the water, leading to a peak of contamination with
Campylobacter or Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. (Medema et al., 2000a).
In another study, Medema (1999) estimated that waterfowl contributed between
1 and 16% to the Cryptosporidium sp. concentration in reservoir water and 4 -
67% to the Giardia sp. concentration. However, as these (oo)cysts may not be
pathogenic to humans, the significance of this source is a matter of debate.


4.2.2    Sources of groundwater pollution

     Many practices with domestic wastewater and with livestock manure may
lead to contamination of groundwater, these are summarised in Figure 4.1 and
outlined in more detail below.

      Septic tanks, cesspools, latrines and other on-site systems are widely used
for wastewater storage and treatment. The water percolating from these
facilities contains viruses, bacteria and parasites and may contaminate
groundwater supplies. In the USA, septic tank systems rank highest in terms of
the volume of untreated wastewater discharged into the groundwater and they
are the most frequently reported source of groundwater contamination
(Hagedorn, 1984). Sewers in the unsaturated zone may leak sewage into the
soil, and it is likely that the extent of this problem is largely unrecognised. In
the saturated zone, sewer breaks will result in groundwater contamination.
During heavy rainfall, stormwater collection in sewers may increase the leak
rate, leading to increased contamination.



                                       116
     There are several types of land application of waste or stormwater,
including infiltration, overland flow, wetlands and subsurface injection. Several
studies have shown that viruses can be found in the groundwater up to 30m
beneath land application sites and can travel several hundreds of meters laterally
from the application point (Keswick, 1984). In one case, viruses were
demonstrated after heavy rainfall in a sampling site that was previously
considered uncontaminated (Wellings et al., 1974).

      Stormwater collected in sewers that also transport domestic wastewater can
present a major problem. Other than direct discharges to water bodies (which
clearly lead to contamination), it may also be disposed of by collection in basins
and subsequent drainage to soil. This percolation may transfer pathogens to
groundwater, as illustrated by Vaugh et al. (1978) who reported viruses in the
soil 9 m below a stormwater basin.

     Digested or composted sludges from sewage treatment plants are applied
to cropland. These sludges contain viruses, parasites and bacteria (Bitton
and Farrah 1980; Feachem et al., 1983). Although parasites and many bacterial
pathogens are inactivated during thermophilic sludge composting, some viruses
survive this treatment (Damgaard-Larsen et al., 1977). In field studies, no
viruses could be found in the leachates of sludge disposal sites (Bitton
and Farrah, 1980) and it has been suggested that the sludge/soil matrix is
effectively retaining the viruses in the sludge. When groundwater tables are
high, there may be direct contact between groundwater and sludge and this
probably leads to groundwater contamination. The potential risk of
contamination of water sources from sewage sludge disposal (along with other
routes of transmission) is well recognised and subject to World Health
Organization (WHO) guidelines (WHO, 1989; Mara and Cairncross, 1989).

      In countries with limited supplies of fresh water, wastewater is used for
crop irrigation, either by spray irrigation, overland flow or subsurface
infiltration. Wastewater irrigation is also subject to WHO guidelines (WHO,
1989). WHO guidelines for wastewater and excreta use in agriculture are
currently undergoing revision.

     Many farmers have cellars, tanks or landfills to store manure. Water
leaching from these storage sites may contaminate groundwater, especially
during periods of rainfall. Storage does reduce the concentration of bacterial
pathogens, but (oo)cysts of Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. can survive for
months in manure (Robertson et al., 1992). The application of animal manure to
agricultural lands as fertiliser is common practice throughout the world.
Application may be by droppings of animals grazing the land, by spraying a
manure slurry over the land or by ploughing or injecting manure into the top


                                       117
layers of the soil. The zoonotic microorganisms present in the manure may
leach into the groundwater.

                                        Figure 4.1. Pathogen transport in an unconfined aquifer

                                                             (From Keswick and Gerba 1980)



                         1000000
                          100000
                           10000
   concentration (n/l)




                            1000
                                                                                                                     River
                                100
                                                                                                                     Observation well 1
                                 10                                                                                  Observation well 2
                                                                                                                     Abstraction well
                                   1

                                 0,1
                                0,01
                            0,001
                                                        ia
                                          s




                                                                                                 s



                                                                                                                 s
                                                                        s



                                                                                     es



                                                                                               se



                                                                                                               se
                                        rm




                                                                      ge
                                                      id




                                                                                   ag



                                                                                             iru



                                                                                                            iru
                                                                    ha
                                                      t
                                     ifo



                                                   os




                                                                                 ph
                                                                 ip




                                                                                          ov



                                                                                                         ov
                                                 cl
                                   ol




                                                               ol



                                                                              A



                                                                                          re




                                                                                                           r
                                    c



                                                 es




                                                                                                        te
                                                                            RN
                                                             .c
                                 l.




                                                                                                     en
                                              or
                               o




                                                            m



                                                                            F-
                            ot



                                           sp



                                                          so
                           m
                           er
                         th




     The potential for pathogens from human and animal wastes that are present
in the vicinity of wells to contaminate drinking water need special attention.
The well construction itself may promote faecal contamination of the aquifer.
As the well punctures all layers in the soil above the aquifer, animal droppings
or human wastes that are deposited close to the well may travel with percolating
rain water directly into the well if the wellhead is not properly protected. Or
they may travel along the well wall or in the material surrounding the well in
the drill-hole.


4.3                              Transport and survival

     For most faecal pathogens, water is a transmission vehicle rather than a
source of pathogens. Most of the enteric pathogens that are discharged into the
environment are not able to multiply and need to survive until they are ingested
by a suitable human or animal host. This is especially true for obligate parasites,
such as the enteric viruses and protozoa like Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia


                                                                                  118
sp. but, in general, this also applies to enteric bacteria: Campylobacter spp.,
Shigella spp., Salmonella spp., enteropathogenic E. coli. There is some
evidence that E. coli can grow in pristine water in tropical rain forests (Rivera
et al., 1988), but it is not clear whether this may also be true for
enteropathogenic E. coli.


4.3.1    Survival in surface water

     The ability of pathogens to survive in surface water differs (Ref –
pathogens in surface water – in preparation). In general, survival is prolonged
when water temperature is low. Other factors that influence survival include
sunlight intensity and the presence of aquatic microorganisms that may use the
pathogens as a food source or produce exo-enzymes that cause pathogen
disintegration. Adsorption to particles facilitates survival, for example LaBelle
and Gerba (1980) found that the survival of poliovirus 1, which was adsorbed to
sediment, increased four-fold in an unpolluted zone and 96-fold in a polluted
zone. Table 4.3 outlines the disappearance rate and time for a 50% reduction in
concentration of a number of pathogens in surface water, using examples of
published data.

      Another factor that affects survival of both faecal index/indicator
parameters and pathogens in surface water is the ability of many bacteria to
enter the viable but non-culturable (VBNC) stage of growth (Colwell and
Grimes, 2000). Briefly, when stressed by a physical or chemical factor (e.g. loss
of nutrients, adverse temperature, chlorine), many of the bacteria examined thus
far respond to the stress by undergoing a series of structural and physiological
changes that result in a dormant or ‘non-culturable’ stage of growth. They tend
to become smaller, less permeable, refractory to cultivation on culture media
normally supportive of their vegetative growth, and some lose their flagella.




                                      119
Table 4.3. Disappearance rates and reduction times for selected microorganisms
                                in surface water

                                                                            Time for 50%
                                         Disappearance rate                  reduction of
         Microorganism
                                              (per day)                     concentration
                                                                                (days)
Pathogens
         Parasites
         Cryptosporidium sp.                 00057 - 0.046                      15 - 150
         Giardia sp.                          0.023 - 0.23                       3 - 30
         Viruses
         Enteroviruses                         0.01 - 0.2                        3 - 70
         Hepatitis A                           0.05 - 0.2                        3 - 14
         Rotavirus                            0.24 - 0.48                       1.2 - 2.4
         Bacteria
         Salmonella spp.                          1-7                          0.1 - 0.67
         Shigella spp.                             0.7                             1
         Vibrio cholerae                            *                               *
Index parameters
E.coli                                        0.23 - 0.46                        1.5 - 3
         Coliforms                                0.77                            0.9
Enterococci                                   0.17 - 0.77                        0.9 - 4
         F-RNA phages                         0.01 - 0.08                       29 - 230
Somatic coliphages                               0.6 - 6                         2 - 20
Clostridium perfringens                     0.0023 - 0.011                     60 - >300
*Vibrio cholerae is environmentally competent and in unfavourable environmental conditions is
thought to survive for long periods in water in a non-culturable state (Colwell and Grimes, 2000).
Source: DeReignier et al., 1989; Geldreich, 1996; Olson, 1996; Medema et al., 1997; Schijven and
Hassanisadeh 2000.



4.3.2        Transport in surface water

     Most enteric pathogens have no means of transport (such as motility) in the
aquatic environment other than being transported with the water flow. The
pathogens can, therefore, be regarded as biological particles that are transported
by advection. Many pathogens readily attach to particles in water (Gerba, 1984;
Gerba et al., 1978; Wellings et al., 1974) and these particles largely determine
the transport characteristics. Sedimentation of planktonic bacteria, viruses and
parasites is very slow and probably not significant in determining transport
behaviour, but when attached to particles, sedimentation becomes significant.


                                              120
Sediments may harbour significant numbers of faecal microorganisms. In
bottom sediments from bathing beaches, rivers and streams, van Donsel and
Geldreich (1971) found thermotolerant coliforms in concentrations that were
100-1 000 fold higher than those in the overlying waters, and viruses levels in
sediments are generally 10-fold higher in sediments than in overlying waters.
LaLiberte and Grimes (1982) demonstrated extended survival of E. coli
inoculated into sediment contained in dialysis bags and placed in a freshwater
lake. Re-suspension of sediments, therefore, may give rise to high
concentrations of faecal pathogens in water. Rainstorms give rise to
re-suspension, as do activities like dredging or shipping (dredge fishing), but the
effect of these latter activities appears to be local (Grimes, 1980, 1982).

     In temperate lakes thermal stratification may occur during summer and
winter. This reduces the exchange of water between the upper and lower layers
of lake water. In summer, the quality of the water at the bottom slowly
deteriorates due to settling. When de-stratification occurs in the autumn, the
water from upper and lower layers mix. This process causes settled particles
with coliforms to re-enter the water. In one lake, for example, Geldreich et al.
(1989) reported that the autumn destratification led to a 10-fold increase in the
coliform densities for several weeks; from a level consistently below 10/100 ml
in the summer to more than 100/100 ml.

     Rainstorms not only result in water quality deterioration through run-off,
stormwater discharges and so on, but they also increase water flows. This may
result in more rapid transport of faecal pathogens from the contamination source
to abstraction sites. Under normal flow conditions, ‘self-purification’ of water
occurs by sedimentation, dilution, sunlight inactivation, predation and
starvation. But under rapid flow conditions, self-purification becomes much less
significant. In lakes and reservoirs, thermal stratification may strongly reduce
the residence time of stormwater. An example of this is provided by Lake
Burragorang, a reservoir in Australia. This lake has a length of 40 kilometres
and, under normal flow conditions, faecal contaminants are removed through
self-purification. The counts of faecal index bacteria and Cryptosporidium sp. at
the dam-intake are low. A two-year drought reduced the water level of the
catchment reservoirs to 60% of their maximum capacity. The area experienced
heavy rains in August 1998. These rains flushed the lands and urban areas
leading to stormwater discharges. Some tertiary sewage treatment systems were
also flooded by the rapidly rising river water. This contaminated flow entered
Lake Burragorang. The lake was stratified, with warm water at the top and the
colder contaminated water sank to the bottom of the lake and the flow rapidly
reached the dam. Turbidity, temperature and Cryptosporidium sp. data at the
dam-intake showed that there was an interchange at the intake of good quality



                                       121
water from the top layers of the reservoir and poor quality water from the
bottom layers within periods of a few days (Deere et al., 2000).


4.3.3       Survival in groundwater

      Survival of microorganisms is an important feature for groundwater
systems (REF – ground water book). The mechanisms of elimination of
pathogens by soil passage are adsorption and inactivation. The inactivation rate
is influenced by many factors as illustrated in Table 4.4.

Table 4.4. Factors that influence the survival of microorganisms in soils and thus
                 affect their ability to reach groundwater systems

                       (Adapted from Gerba and Bitton, 1984)

 Factor                   Influence
 Temperature              Long survival at low temperatures, rapid die-off at high
                          temperatures. For some faecally-derived bacteria high
                          temperatures might give rise to growth.
 Moisture content         Desiccation is detrimental to most microorganisms
                          (spores excepted). An increased rate of reduction will
                          occur in drying soils. This is of most relevance in the
                          unsaturated zone.
 Sunlight                 More rapid die-off at the soil surface due to UV irradiation.
 pH                       Bacteria die-off more rapidly in acid soils (pH 3-5) than in
                          alkaline soils. The pH influences the adsorption of
                          microorganisms to the soil matrix and indirectly influences
                          survival.
 Microflora               Soil bacteria and fungi may produce exo-enzymes that
                          damage the structure of faecal microorganisms, while
                          amoebae and other microbiota may feed on them.
                          Bacterial survival is shorter in natural soils than in
                          sterilised soils, but for viruses no clear trend is observed.
 Organic carbon content   The presence of organic carbon increases survival and
                          may give rise to the regrowth of bacteria.
 Cations                  Certain cations have a thermal stabilising effect on viruses
                          and increase virus survival. Cations also enhance virus
                          adsorption to soil and this indirectly increases survival, as
                          viruses appear to survive better in the adsorbed state.



    Pathogen survival in groundwater has been determined in a number of
ways, including:


                                        122
  •     Suspending laboratory microorganisms in microcosms.
  •     Sterile groundwater in flasks in the laboratory or under ambient
        conditions.
  •     Membrane chambers in flowing groundwater.
  •     Dialysis tube in groundwater wells.

     The disappearance rates in groundwater are lower than in surface water
(see Table 4.5). Viruses survive longer than bacteria. No data on the survival of
protozoan parasites in groundwater are available yet, but it can be assumed that
these pathogens are able to survive longer than the viruses.

   Table 4.5. Example disappearance rates of enteric microorganisms in natural
                                 groundwater

         Microorganism                               Disappearance rate (per day)
  Viruses
       Hepatitis A virus                                       0.10 - 0.33
       Poliovirus 1                                            0.013 - 0.77
       Coxsackievirus                                              0.19
       Rotavirus SA11                                              0.36
       Coliphage T7                                                0.15
       Coliphage f2                                            0.39 - 1.42
       MS2                                                     0.063 - 0.75
  Bacteria
       Escherichia coli                                        0.063 - 0.36
       Faecal streptococci                                     0.03 - 0.24
       Salmonella typhimurium                                  0.13 - 0.22
       Clostridium bifermentans spores                             0.00
Sources: Matthess et al., 1988; Nasser et al., 1992; Blanc and Nasser, 1996; Schijven and
Hassanisadeh, 2000.



4.3.4      Groundwater transport

      The most important factors in the transport of microorganisms through the
subsurface are water flow (the driving force) and soil texture. Most of the
studies on groundwater transport have focussed on viruses. The transport of
viruses through soil is primarily determined by attachment (Schijven and
Hassanisadeh, 2000), while virus inactivation is considered to be
less/insignificant (Bales et al., 1995, 1997; Pieper et al., 1997; DeBorde et al.,
1998, 1999). Many factors affect the adsorption and transport of


                                          123
microorganisms through soil (Table 4.6). The major factor that affects virus
adsorption is pH (Schijven and Hassanisadeh, 2000). At higher pH, electrostatic
repulsion increases, resulting in a decreased attachment rate and an increased
detachment rate. In most aquifers, surface characteristics of the soil are
heterogeneous and also viruses with different isoelectric points may be present.
Therefore, dependent on pH and thus on the charge of the virus and soil
particles, adsorption of some of these viruses may be irreversible, whereas that
of others may be reversible. At pH 7 – 8, adsorption will be mainly reversible.

      Table 4.6. Factors affecting transport of enteric pathogens through soil

         (Adapted from Gerba and Bitton, 1984; Schijven and Hassanisadeh, 2000)

Factor                  Influence on transport
Soil texture            Fine-textured soils retain viruses, bacteria and protozoa more
                        effectively due to increased interaction and adsorption.
                        Fractured soils, however, are poor retainers of microorganisms.
Water flow              Water flow is the driving force of transport and pathogen
                        transport velocities appear to be proportional to the water flow.
                        Increased water flow may remobilize adsorbed microorganisms.
PH                      Adsorption generally increases when pH decreases, due to
                        reduced electrostatic repulsion.
                                                                    2+      2+
Cations                 The presence of multivalent cations (Ca , Mg ) increases
                        adsorption due to the formation of salt bridges between
                        negatively charged microorganisms and soil particles.
Metal hydroxides        Iron hydroxides improve the adsorption of microorganisms.
Soluble organics        These can influence transport in various ways: they may
                        compete with microorganisms for attachment sites (humic and
                        fulvic acids compete with viruses), but they may also give rise to
                        microbial activity that enhances attachment and inactivation.
Microorganism           Bacteria and parasites are more readily removed than viruses
characteristics         because of their size (1 - 20 µm versus 20 - 80 nm). Differences
                        in isoelectric points and surface composition determine the
                        adsorption rates.
Saturated versus        Under unsaturated flow conditions, water fills only the small
unsaturated flow        pores. This increases soil-microorganism contact and
                        adsorption.




                                          124
4.4      Catchment surveys and catchment protection

     As indicated earlier, catchment protection is an essential step in
safeguarding the microbial quality of drinking water. The basic concept of
catchment protection is to know the catchment hydrology/hydrogeology and
sources of pathogen contamination in the catchment in order to:

 •    Select the most appropriate site for drinking water abstraction or well
      placement.
 •    Be able to select appropriate catchment monitoring and/or protection
      measures.
 •    Predict the occurrence of peak events.

     A sanitary survey of the catchment area can identify sources of faecal
contamination (sewage treatment plants, sewer overflows, agricultural areas
with manure storage or land deposition, high waterfowl numbers etc.). It can
also identify if certain climatological (heavy rainfall), environmental (high
animal loads) or man-made conditions (agricultural practices, tourism) are
likely to give rise to peak contamination events of the source water.

      A survey of sources can be done without the use of index parameters by
mapping the catchment and the sources of faecal contamination present. This is
the basic hazard assessment step in the catchment. In a second stage, a survey
can be conducted with the well-established microbial indices of faecal pollution
(E. coli, enterococci, spores of Clostridium perfringens), non-microbial water
quality data (e.g. turbidity, temperature, pH, conductivity) and hydrologic data
(measurements of flow and precipitation). This will provide more accurate and
quantitative information about the quality of the waters in the catchment areas
and the effect of transport on the level of faecal pollution. If the methods and
resources are available, the inclusion of F-RNA bacteriophages in such a survey
is likely to improve its prediction with regard to virus hazards.

     Other, non-microbial parameters have been suggested as indicators of
contamination with domestic wastewater. These are compounds that are used in
the household such as boron (used as whitener in washing powders) and
caffeine, and other human excretory products such as secretory IgA, sterols and
urobilin. None of these, has been demonstrated to be widely applicable, but may
be useful for specific purposes.




                                      125
4.4.1      Surface water

4.4.1.1    Catchment survey

     For surface water systems, this inventory should include:

 •      Location and size of discharges of treated sewage.
 •      Location and size of discharges of untreated sewage.
 •      Location and size of sewer overflows and conditions initiating overflow.
 •      Location of sewage sludge deposits and ability of contaminants to enter
        surface water.
 •      Location, type, frequency, conditions and size/weight of manure
        application on land in agricultural areas.
 •      Location and type of manure deposits and ability of contaminants to travel
        to surface water.
 •      Presence of high numbers of wild mammals and birds on or around the
        surface water.

      For all these aspects, special attention should be given to circumstances
that may lead to peak contamination events. A simple classification relating to
the estimated significance of the pollution source is helpful and can be based on
its nature, size, the transport time and its distance from the source water.

     The catchment survey should result in:

 •      An inventory of the contamination sources.
 •      A classification of their significance.
 •      An inventory of conditions that may give rise to peak contamination
        events.

     During the survey possible risk management measures may be identified
and, after the survey is completed, it is generally possible to classify catchment
protection measures according to their (estimated) impact on the improvement
of the source water quality or prevention of peak events.

     A basic catchment survey is not sophisticated (although geographical
information system (GIS) techniques are helpful). Despite this, however, they
are not very well established within the water community. There are some
examples of catchment surveys, such as those in several German reservoir


                                          126
catchments (Feuerpfeil and Bischoff, 2001), but in general, emphasis has more
commonly been placed on treatment. This may be because treatment is totally
within the control of the water supplier, while catchment protection may involve
many different bodies and interest groups and is, therefore, more difficult to
manage. However, the recognition of Cryptosporidium sp. as an important
waterborne pathogen and its resistance to disinfection has boosted interest in
catchment protection, especially in North America. Following an incident in
Australia in 1998, where water in distribution was found to be contaminated
with Cryptosporidium (probably as a result of high levels within the catchment
following heavy rainfall - McLellan, 1998) a Catchment Authority was set up,
with their first step being to make an inventory of contamination sources (Deere
et al., 2000).


4.4.1.2   The use of microbial parameters as an index of faecal pollution

     An initial catchment survey focussing on the identification of sources can
be conducted without the use of microbial indices, however, such measurements
may help to determine the significance of any identified pollution sources and
also the behaviour and transport of faecal contamination in surface water. They
are especially helpful in assessing the occurrence of peak events and may even
be used to predict these. The principal microorganism for this purpose is E. coli,
as it is present in all faecal contamination of concern and the assay is
inexpensive, simple and widely used. Its presence in surface water indicates
recent faecal contamination and therefore a potential health hazard.
Thermotolerant coliforms can be a suitable alternative, but where these are used
attention must be given to the possible presence of waste effluents with a high
carbohydrate content, as they may harbour Klebsiella sp.

     As E. coli is not as environmentally long-lived as many pathogens (i.e.
viruses and protozoa) it is most useful in identifying recent contamination.
Additional, complementary tests examining for the more robust enterococci and
the spores of Clostridium perfringens can shed light on less recent faecal
contamination.

     Due to high thermophilic background growth on the culture media and the
potential multiplication of thermotolerant coliforms (and even E. coli) in the
environment (Rivera et al., 1988; Byappanahalli and Fujioka, 1998), the use of
some microbial parameters to assess tropical source water quality is
problematic. Clostridium perfringens spores appear to be the most appropriate
parameter for assessing faecal contamination in tropical climates (Fujioka,
2001).



                                       127
Case study: Using monitoring within a water safety plan to prevent
contamination

      One of the catchments within the Melbourne Water area in Australia is a
protected natural mountain area with no human settlements. The water is held in
reservoirs and is only chlorinated before distribution to the consumers.
Catchment surveys and monitoring showed that rainfall led to deterioration in
the water quality in the tributaries to the reservoir with both relatively high
turbidity and concentrations of faecally derived bacteria. To attempt to remedy
this, a standard operating procedure was set up, using flow diversion as a
control measure to prevent water of relatively poor quality entering the reservoir
(Deere et al., 2000).


4.4.1.3   The use of pathogenic microorganisms

      It is generally considered that surveys assessing pathogenic micro-
organisms give the most direct information about their sources. There are,
however, many different pathogens, they are present in relatively low
concentrations and require large sample volumes and pathogen detection
methods (if available) are generally high-tech, time-consuming and expensive.
Thus pathogen surveys rarely allow large numbers of samples to be taken. Such
surveys are, therefore, best preceded by catchment surveys, sanitary inspection
and faecal index investigation and then targeted to specific research questions,
as illustrated by the following case study.


Case study: First flush

      In the California State Water project in the USA, several lakes are used as
source waters. Two of these lakes are Castaic Lake in the Castaic Mountains
and Silverwood Lake in the San Bernardino National Forest. No agricultural,
industrial or sewage discharges were identified in the streams sampled during
sanitary surveys, but livestock and wildlife were present in the vicinity of the
creeks. For the Cryptosporidium and Giardia monitoring programme, sampling
sites were selected in the lakes and in tributaries and three sampling strategies
were used:

 •    Large volume (100 l) sampling with filters.
 •    Unattended stormwater grab samplers (5 l).
 •    4 l grab samples for storm events other than first flush.



                                       128
      The first flush during storm events contained very high numbers of
Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. (Table 4.7). These high concentrations go
unnoticed in the filter sampling that was not driven by precipitation but also the
grab samples during storm events did not detect these high numbers (Stewart et
al., 1997).

   Table 4.7. Results of the Castaic and Silverwood lake surveys with different
                               monitoring strategies

                         Cryptosporidium sp.                  Giardia sp.
Sampling                               Range                             Range
                     % positive                      % positive
strategy                             (no/100 l)                        (no/100 l)
Filter                   10            3 - 415           29             2 - 119
First flush              35         46 - 41 666          60           25 - 16 666
Grab sampling            19           3.4 - 647          19            42 - 2428


    Hence, the first flush during storm events carry the highest load of
Cryptosporidium and Giardia to the streams and should be included in
monitoring programmes or somehow accounted for. The first flush samplers
were inexpensive, but were vulnerable to theft and vandalism.


4.4.2      Groundwater

4.4.2.1    Catchment survey

      As outlined earlier, primary sources of groundwater contamination are
human and animal wastes and the infiltration of faecally contaminated surface
water (including rivers). As groundwater treatment generally does not include
major barriers against pathogens, groundwater catchment protection acts as the
principal barrier. However, it should not necessarily be assumed that
groundwater does not require filtration to remove protozoa (e.g. where the
filtration provided by the ground between a river and a well is inadequate to
remove protozoa) or disinfection to inactivate viruses.

     The catchment survey needs to collect information about the sources of
contamination in the catchment, the hydrogeology of the groundwater system
and the high risk factors such as the possibility of rapid pathogen transport
through pores/fractures or contamination of wells, drains or adits from nearby
sources.




                                       129
Geohydrological survey

     This should include investigation of the following:

 •   Catchment area (if no detailed information is available, an estimation
     based on abstraction rate and thickness and porosity of the aquifer is
     appropriate).
 •   Soil layer texture and composition; the presence, thickness and integrity
     of confining soil layers.
 •    Flow lines of water to the abstraction sites in different layers.
 •   Presence of solutions, thin unsaturated zones, surface-water aquifer
     contact.

Survey of the sources of contamination and high risk factors

     Sources of contamination could include, sites for disposal of sewage,
treated sewage or sewage sludge, sites for disposal or land application of
manure, areas with irrigation with treated or untreated domestic wastewater,
septic tanks, cesspools, latrines, waste dumps, manure storage facilities and so
on (see also REF groundwater book).

    High risk factors are those that result in the rapid transport of water to the
groundwater source, such as heavy rainfall or infiltration of river water.


Well-head, well, borehole protection and protection of shallow aquifers and
drains

     The aspect should include an assessment of sources of contamination in the
vicinity of the wells (grazing animals, septic systems, sewers and so on), the
well-head integrity and the integrity of the soil around the well (placement and
integrity of well sheets, clay layer or concrete slabs around the well). An
example inspection form from the WHO is shown in Figure 4.2 and Box 4.1
(WHO, 1997). For shallow aquifers and drains, areas of surface-aquifer contact
or small unsaturated zones (especially during rainfall) should be examined, as
should the integrity of ventilation shafts and manholes, and also the procedures
for opening and entering manholes.




                                        130
Box 4.1. Example survey form for tubewell with hand-pump

                      (WHO, 1997)




                          131
Figure 4.2. Diagram to accompany example inspection form (Box 4.1) for tubewell
                              with hand-pump

                                            (WHO, 1997)




MSD: minimum safe distance determined locally.
1-10 refer to the survey form (Section II) – Box 4.1.

     In some countries, inventories of sources of groundwater contamination
(both for microbial and chemical contaminants) are better established than in
surface water systems. In these countries, groundwater protection regulation has
been issued that relies on the division of the catchment area into zones of
different vulnerability to contamination. The zones are defined by (average)
transit time of the water from the land surface to the source water. Activities
that may lead to groundwater contamination are restricted in these protection
zones.




                                                 132
Case study: Recommendations from the UK Group of Experts

      An outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in North London (UK) was subsequently
traced to a groundwater supply that was vulnerable to infiltration of surface
water containing Cryptosporidium sp. (DWI, 1998). This and several other
incidents with groundwater supplies triggered the UK Group of Experts to
recommend that groundwater systems should be evaluated for potential
contamination risk (Bouchier, 1998). The groundwater protection practice at
the time was based (as in many countries) on land surface zoning according to
travel times of the water from the land surface to the groundwater sources and
the restriction of contaminating activities in the most vulnerable zones.
Bouchier (1998) evaluated these practices for their protective value against
microbial pollution, especially with Cryptosporidium sp. It was concluded that
this approach formed a sound basis for assessing vulnerable groundwater
supplies, but also that there were some limitations. An important limitation is
that by-pass features, which allow rapid transport of water with contaminants to
groundwater, were not incorporated in the vulnerability assessment. By-pass
flow may occur in many of the British carbonate aquifers. Similarly, surface
water-aquifer interactions that may occur in valley-bottoms (surface water
recharge) and upper catchments were not incorporated in the vulnerability
assessment. Bouchier (1998) recommended the inclusion of an additional
vulnerability class in the zoning scheme. This extreme vulnerability class would
apply to areas with the combination of contaminated surface water and rapid
access points (solution features, sinkholes, karst or pseudo karst features, mines
and aggregate extraction sites).

      The need for the inclusion of rapid access of surface water to groundwater
as an important factor in vulnerability assessment was illustrated by the fact that
eight of the nine suspected cases of groundwater contamination with
Cryptosporidium sp. in the UK were associated with adited wells, collectors,
spring galleries and former mines with adits (Morris and Foster, 2000).
Groundwater supplies in rural settings were more commonly affected than sites
in urban settings. Fissure flow, dual porosity flow and intergranular flow were
all represented in these cases. Intergranular flow appeared only to be important
in settings where the residence time in the aquifer was very short, such as in
river gravels close to a surface water course.

     The Expert Group listed the factors of a groundwater system that need to
be considered for assessing the risk of contamination with Cryptosporidium sp.
(Table 4.8) and gave guidance on techniques to determine/verify the
significance of these factors. Simple qualitative ranking may help to prioritise
the different hazards, however, Morris and Foster (2000) stress the need to
focus on the individual water supply when applying ranking, appreciating the


                                       133
unique hydro-geological, operational and contamination sources setting of each
supply system.

    Table 4.8. Factors for consideration in the risk assessment of groundwater
                                  contamination

                                     (From Bouchier, 1998)

                                                                   Possible verification
 Predisposing groundwater to Cryptosporidium sp. risk
                                                                   techniques
 Catchment factors
 High wastewater returns, including sewage effluent to             Hydrochemistry,
 river reaches, especially under baseflow conditions               microbiology, hydrometry
 Livestock rearing in inner catchment, especially if               Farm survey
 intensive
 Likely Cryptosporidium sp. - generating activities in             Economic activity survey
 catchment – e.g. abattoirs
 Urbanising catchment                                              Land registry survey
 Livestock grazed or housed near wellhead                          Site inspection
 Hydrogeological factors
 Known or suspected river aquifer connection nearby                Flow gauging, modelling,
                                                                   hydrochemistry
 Unconfined conditions with shallow water table                    Well-water level monitoring
 Karst or known rapid macro-fissure flow conditions,               Field mapping, farm survey
 especially in shallow groundwater
 Patchy drift cover associated with highly contrasting             Field mapping, shallow
 aquifer intrinsic vulnerabilities                                 drilling
 Solution features observed or inferred in catchment               Field mapping
 Shallow flow cycles to springs                                    Tracing, hydrochemistry,
                                                                   water temperature logging
 Fissure-dominant flow (as suggested by high                       Downhole fluid/flow logging,
 transmissivity or specific capacity)                              pumping test analysis
 Well/raw water source factors
 Supply source tapping shallow flow systems (e.g.                  Check site plans, tracing
 adits, springs, mine galleries)
 Adits with upbores or construction-stage ventilation              Check site plans, site
 shafts                                                            inspection
 Poor casing integrity                                             CCTV, geophysical logging
 Masonry linings above pumping water level without                 CCTV, check site plans
 additional sanitary seal
 Sewer/septic tank/slurry pit systems near wellhead or             Site inspection
 above adits
 Inadequately fenced source especially around spring               Site inspection
 boxes, catchpits, galleries
 Old, poorly documented well construction                          Site plans/BGS national well
                                                                   record archive
CCTV: Closed circuit television. BGS: British Geological Survey.



                                               134
4.4.2.2   The use of microbial indicators as an index of faecal pollution

     Groundwater is not easily accessible for monitoring faecal contamination.
Sources of faecal contamination that have been identified in the sanitary survey
can be monitored and may give quantitative information on the size of the
sources but not necessarily on their impact on groundwater quality.

      The subsurface catchment can be monitored for faecal contamination with
observation wells, if the hydro-geology has been well established. This is
especially true for karst or fractured bedrock aquifers, because the water flow is
difficult to establish. The ideal placement of observation wells is between the
sources of contamination and the abstraction wells. Detailed guidance on
sampling of groundwater and well drilling and placement can be found in
McNabb and Mallard (1984). Monitoring of the observation wells for index
parameters can give information about the efficiency of soil passage. Microbial
parameters that can give information about the presence of faecal contamination
are E. coli, bacteriophages and spores of Clostridium perfringens. The
application of these parameters in observation wells is similar to source water
monitoring for groundwater systems. Important recommendations are:

  •   Sample volumes should be as large as achievable (Fujioka and
      Yoneyama, 2001 recommend analysis of 1 000 ml samples).
  •   Sampling strategy should include regular sampling and high risk event
      sampling. In this respect, observation wells should be placed in the flow
      lines from high risk areas to source water and preferably leave sufficient
      residence time to take appropriate actions (e.g. shut-down of wells).
  •   When resources/available methods are limited, use E. coli testing. When
      resources are available include testing for enterococci, spores of
      Clostridium perfringens and F-specific RNA phages if sewage or other
      human wastes are thought to be important pollution sources.

Case study: The importance of large volumes

     To increase production capacity, Water Company Limburg (in the
Netherlands) has constructed additional wells along the banks of the River
Meuse. Hydrological calculations indicated that 10-15% of the abstracted water
is bank filtrate. The aquifer consists of coarse and fine gravel with sand and the
average residence time of the river water in the soil is 0.5–3 years. One of the
wells close to the river (150 m) extracts 50% river water and the estimated
residence time to this well is 45-65 days. Due to the nature of the Meuse (rain-
fed river), sudden sharp rises in the river level occur that can lead to infiltration


                                        135
of previously unsaturated soil layers with high velocities and short residence
times. To determine the relationship between the residence time (or distance of
soil passage through the aquifer) and the removal of pathogenic
microorganisms, large volume samples (up to 100 l) were taken from the river
and from two observation wells located between the river and the pumping well
closest to the river. The samples were analysed for the presence of
thermotolerant coliforms, spores of sulphite reducing clostridia,
Cryptosporidium sp., Giardia sp., entero- and reoviruses, somatic coliphages
and F-specific RNA phages. All were present in the River Meuse throughout the
study period. In the observation well at a distance of 8 m from the river,
thermotolerant coliforms, spores of sulphite-reducing clostridia, bacteriophages
and reoviruses were detected (Figure 4.3). No enteroviruses were found.
Cryptosporidium and Giardia were tested once and not detected. In the
observation well further from the river only thermotolerant coliforms, spores
and bacteriophages were detected. In the pumping well, thermotolerant
coliforms, spores of sulphite-reducing clostridia and somatic coliphages were
occasionally detected. The highest concentrations in the well were observed
after the water level in the River Meuse had been high and the distance and
travel time to the observation well was relatively short.

      The first metres of soil passage resulted in relatively efficient removal,
probably because this includes passage through the relatively impermeable layer
of river sediment on the bank. Strict hygiene measures were necessary to
prevent contamination of the observation wells from the soil surface. The
occasional presence of several indices of faecal pollution in the well indicated
that microorganisms (including pathogens) from the river may pass through the
soil into the well, especially during high river flows. The results were used to
design an abstraction programme in which the well(s) close to the river are shut
down in case of a sharp rise in river flow (Medema et al., 2000b).




                                      136
  Figure 4.3. Removal of microorganisms by bank filtration in a gravel-sand soil

                                                                    (Medema et al., 2000b)



                        1000000
                          100000
                           10000
  concentration (n/l)




                             1000
                                                                                                                         River
                                 100
                                                                                                                         Observation well 1
                                 10                                                                                      Observation well 2
                                                                                                                         Abstraction well
                                    1

                                 0,1
                             0,01
                            0,001
                                         s




                                                                                                     s



                                                                                                                     s
                                                         ia



                                                                          s



                                                                                       es



                                                                                                   se



                                                                                                                   se
                                         rm




                                                                        ge
                                                       id




                                                                                     ag



                                                                                                iru




                                                                                                                 ru
                                                                      ha
                                                        t
                                      ifo



                                                     os




                                                                                   ph




                                                                                                               vi
                                                                    ip




                                                                                              ov
                                                   cl
                                    ol




                                                                                                             ro
                                                                  ol



                                                                                 A



                                                                                            re
                                    c



                                                  es




                                                                                                           te
                                                                               RN
                                                              .c
                                 l.




                                                                                                         en
                                               or
                                o




                                                              m
                             ot




                                                                              F-
                                              sp



                                                            so
                             m
                          er
                        th




4.5                              Source water quality

     For source water quality assessment, the different nature of the sources
means that a clear distinction between surface water and groundwater sources is
necessary. For surface water, assessment of the microbiological quality of the
source water is essential in both the design and the operation phase of drinking
water treatment:

 •                       To design an appropriate treatment system that transforms the source
                         water into safe drinking water.
 •                       To evaluate if an existing treatment system is able to provide safe
                         drinking water.
 •                       To target the treatment to cope with variations and peak events in the
                         faecal contamination of source water.

    In most groundwater systems, faecal contamination is generally low or
even absent. If the groundwater is influenced by surface water then the
monitoring programme should also include the surface water (this can be


                                                                                     137
targeted to conditions or times when surface water influence is likely). For the
most part, monitoring is used to verify the purity of the groundwater, rather than
to determine treatment goals, however, if the groundwater is influenced by
faecal contamination, then monitoring has both functions (i.e. verification of the
efficacy of the soil passage, and assessment of the additional treatment level
required).

      The first stage of the assessment of source water quality is monitoring for
the traditional microbial indices of faecal pollution, possibly supplemented with
bacteriophages. This monitoring programme should be frequent in order to
identify short-term variations in water quality. If certain climatological, natural
conditions or human practices lead to an increase in the faecal contamination of
the source water, monitoring intensity (frequency and potentially the number of
parameters) should be increased during the period when these conditions occur.
Monitoring for pathogens is (as for catchment surveys) secondary to index
monitoring and should only be considered when there is a strong suspicion of
contamination. Although it should be noted that pathogen monitoring can
provide useful information. In source water, for example, quantitative
information on pathogen occurrence provides data that can be helpful in setting
treatment goals. In groundwater supplies it can be useful as a way to determine
the ability of pathogens to travel through the soil. However, when only low
levels of index parameters are detected, the probability of finding pathogenic
microorganisms decreases.


4.5.1     Surface water

4.5.1.1   The use of microbial parameters to set treatment goals

     Microbial parameters can be used to determine the level of faecal
contamination at a specific surface water site. The more contaminated a surface
water source, the more treatment is necessary to produce safe drinking water.
This is the basis of microbial guidelines for raw water quality, such as those in
the EC directive 75/440/EEC (Table 4.9).




                                       138
 Table 4.9. Thermotolerant coliform standards for surface water intended for the
                         abstraction of drinking water

                                   (EC, 1975)

             Thermotolerant coliform
 Category                              Treatment requirement
              concentration/100 ml
    A1                 20              Simple physical treatment and disinfection
    A2               2 000             Normal physical treatment and disinfection
    A3               20 000            Intensive physical treatment and disinfection
    A4              >20 000            Not suitable for drinking water production


      Many studies have looked at the relationship between microbial indices of
faecal pollution and pathogens in surface water. Although this has been subject
of much debate, the consensus appears to be that there is a general, coarse
relationship between the indices of faecal pollution and pathogen
concentrations. Basically, sewage contains higher concentrations of both the
index parameters and pathogens than treated sewage and this is again higher
than in surface water and after reservoir storage. So, based on the microbial
index parameter concentration, a rough estimate of pathogen concentrations can
be given (Payment et al., 2000). When it comes to predictions of the pathogen
concentration at a particular site, however, the correlation found in general (and
even at the location itself) is generally too uncertain to be able to predict the
pathogen concentration with less than one to two log-units uncertainty margin
on either side of the estimate (Havelaar, 1996).


4.5.1.2   The use of pathogens to set treatment goals

     LeChevallier and Norton (1995) sampled raw waters supplying 72 drinking
water plants in the USA for the occurrence of Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia
sp. They calculated the required treatment efficiency on the basis of the
concentration of parasites in the raw water and the maximum concentrations
allowable in drinking water (determined by the 10-4 risk of infection value used
in risk assessment studies in the USA and elsewhere – see Section 1.5.1).
Similar studies were conducted in Canada (Payment et al., 2000; Barbeau et al.,
2001) and in the Netherlands (Medema et al., 2000c), however, current
detection methods make interpretation of such monitoring data for
Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. difficult. The recovery efficiency of the
methods are low and variable and the methods do not discriminate between live
and dead (oo)cysts nor do they identify which (oo)cyst types are infective to



                                       139
humans. The conservative approach is to consider all (oo)cysts to be infective,
but this may give rise to higher investments in treatment processes than
necessary to protect public health adequately. The recent developments in
molecular detection methods may bring the required specificity within reach but
will not resolve the problems associated with recovery.

     Virus surveys have been conducted for the same purpose. The occurrence
of enteroviruses in raw water has been monitored in many countries and levels
have been found to range from 0.1-100 /l (Block et al., 1978; Nestor et al.,
1981; Payment, 1981; Lucena et al., 1982; van Olphen et. al., 1984). While
many of the enteric viruses can be cultivated and concentrated from water
samples with reasonable efficiency, some of the viruses responsible for
waterborne outbreaks cannot be cultivated (e.g. Norwalk, hepatitis E and so on).
If the objective is to estimate a general level of viral contamination, current
methods provide a fair assessment. In the case of outbreak investigation,
molecular methods can be used to supplement current methods by providing
tools to identify the aetiological agent (see Chapter 7). A combination of cell
culture and molecular methodology is being developed (see Chapter 8) which
may provide good data for source waters.


4.5.1.3   Peak events

      Precipitation events can lead to a high pathogen load in the source water.
Although this is generally true for all faecal pathogens from domestic and
agricultural sources, recent research has focussed primarily on Cryptosporidium
sp. and Giardia sp. This research can be used to illustrate the significance of
peak events and the strategies to monitor for peak events such as storms
(Gibson et al., 1998; Stewart et al., 1997). Several authors have found a
relationship between rainfall and high concentrations of Cryptosporidium sp.
and Giardia sp. (Poulton et al., 1991; Hansen and Ongerth, 1991; Atherholt
et al., 1998). The high concentrations were associated with agricultural run-off,
re-suspension of river sediments and sewer overflows.

      Rainfall also leads to increased water flows and may result in the short-
circuiting of pre-treatment reservoirs, as outlined earlier. Flooding, as a result of
exceptional rainfall events, can lead to even more extreme contamination. As
the floodwater can wash the contents of complete sewage systems, sewage
treatment works and sludge disposal stores into surface water and may lead to
power failure, mains break and even submersion of drinking water treatment
facilities.




                                        140
Case study: The importance of frequent and/or event-based monitoring

     The Delaware River flows through the States of New York, Pennsylvania
and New Jersey (USA). 1.2 million people live in the river basin. Sources of
faecal pollution include combined storm and domestic wastewater sewers,
septic systems, discharges of treated domestic wastewater, water recreation and
run-off. The Trenton Water Works collects water from this river for the
production of drinking water by flocculation, alum coagulation, sedimentation,
rapid sand filtration and chlorine disinfection. The abstracted water was
sampled monthly for Cryptosporidium sp., Giardia sp., indicator bacteria,
coliphages and other parameters (i.e. turbidity, particles, suspended solids,
temperature, river flow). Additionally, the sampling frequency was increased to
daily samples (Monday – Friday) in three consecutive weeks during the winter
and this was repeated in spring, summer and autumn. To determine the effect of
this difference in sampling strategy, the monthly samples were compared to all
data and are summarised in Table 4.10 (Atherholt et al., 1998).

Table 4.10. Comparison of sampling strategies: monthly sampling versus all data

                             (Atherholt et al., 1998)

                                Cryptosporidium sp.            Giardia sp.
                               Monthly           All    Monthly              All
Percent detection (%)             92             88       50                 40
Geometric mean (n / 100 l)        51             51       21                 24
90-percentile (n / 100 l)        134            160       20                 40
Minimum (n / 100 l)               20             20       20                 20
Maximum (n / 100 l)              140            800       40             280


      While the monthly samples did reflect the central tendency for (oo)cyst
occurrence, it underestimated both the 90-percentile and maximum occurrence
of the parasites. In addition, LeChevallier and Norton (1995) examined the
relationship between Cryptosporidium sp., Giardia sp. and the other water
quality parameters. Although no correlation was found to be consistently
present in all time series tested, correlations between protozoa concentrations
and turbidity, river flow and thermotolerant coliforms (or E. coli) were
repeatedly found. The authors developed a simple model for the prediction of
peak events based on these indicators of pollution.




                                       141
Case study: Turbidity and spores of Clostridium perfringens as indices of
pollution

      The River Meuse is a river fed primarily by rain water, which flows from
Northern France, through eastern Belgium and the Netherlands to the North
Sea. The river receives discharges of treated and untreated domestic wastewater
and flows through agricultural areas with a high density of livestock. The river
water is abstracted near Keizersveer for the production of drinking water by
reservoir storage (typically five months in a series of three reservoirs) and
coagulation/filtration with chlorination or ozonation and granular activated
carbon filtration. In 1994, the river water was sampled weekly for indicator
bacteria, Cryptosporidium sp. and other parameters such as turbidity and
temperature. The Meuse is a typical rain-fed river, with high flows and high
turbidities in winter and spring, due to rainfall and melting snow. At this time
the level of faecal pollution, as judged by the concentration of index bacteria, is
also relatively high and the water temperature is low. Monitoring showed that
several, but not all, of the peak concentrations in Cryptosporidium sp. coincided
with a peak in turbidity (Figure 4.5, week 3,4,5, week 12, week 15, week 44 and
week 50) (Medema, 1999). A turbidity peak therefore indicates the potential
presence of high Cryptosporidium sp. concentrations (a similar relationship has
been observed in the Delaware river (USA), Atherholt et al., 1998).

           Figure 4.5. Coincidence of peaks in turbidity measurements with peaks in
                           Cryptosporidium sp. counts in river water

                                                 (Medema, 1999)


                                  0,4                                         40
                                 0,35                                         35
   Cryptosporidium (n/l) --o--




                                  0,3                                         30
                                                                                   Turbidity (NTU) ___




                                 0,25                                         25
                                  0,2                                         20
                                 0,15                                         15
                                  0,1                                         10
                                 0,05                                         5
                                   0                                          0
                                        0   10   20          30   40     50
                                                      Week



                                                      142
     The concentration of Cryptosporidium sp. was positively correlated with
flow and turbidity, and with faecal indicator bacteria, especially with clostridial
spores (Table 4.11). Spores and oocysts are both very persistent in the aquatic
environment, and it may be this feature that is the basis of the correlation.

 Table 4.11. Correlation between Cryptosporidium sp. concentrations and other
                  water quality parameters in the River Meuse
                   (product-moment correlation coefficients)

                                       (Medema, 1999)

           Water quality parameter                           r-value
                                                                      ***
           Spores of sulphite reducing clostridia              0.75
                                                                      ***
           Spores of Clostridium perfringens                   0.76
                                                                      **
           Total coliforms                                     0.51
                                                                      ***
           Thermotolerant coliforms                            0.58
                                                                      ***
           Faecal streptococci                                 0.57
                                                                      **
           Temperature                                        -0.44
           Chlorophyll A                                      -0.27
                                                                      ***
           River flow                                          0.61
                                                                      ***
           Turbidity                                           0.66
                 +                                                    *
           NH4                                                 0.38
         *   significant at the 0.05 level.
         ** significant at the 0.01 level.
         *** significant at the 0.001 level.

     This case study shows that raw water turbidity can be used as an easy and
rapid (even on-line) indicator of the presence of Cryptosporidium sp. (and
probably other pathogens related to faecal contamination). The turbidity
measurements serve as a trigger to stop the intake of river water into the
reservoirs, while the reservoirs allow the continuation of drinking water
production. The study also showed that spores of Clostridium perfringens are
the best indices of the presence of Cryptosporidium sp., probably because both
spores and oocysts are robust survival stages.


4.5.2    Groundwater

     Groundwater supplies are often tested for the same parameters as surface
water supplies, including coliform and thermotolerant coliform testing for
detection of faecal contamination. As has already been discussed the presence
of thermotolerant coliforms indicates the presence of faecal contamination and
the potential presence of pathogens. Absence of thermotolerant coliforms,


                                               143
however, does not necessarily ensure that pathogens are absent. Enteric viruses,
pathogenic bacteria such as Yersinia sp. (Lassen, 1972) and protozoan parasites
have been found in groundwater (generally in large volume samples), while
tests for E. coli (generally small volume samples) were negative.

      Differences in attachment rates and survival lead to differences in the
ability of microorganisms to travel long distances through the aquifer. In
aquifers of fine-textured soil that are vulnerable to faecal contamination from
human waste, the risk of penetration of enteric viruses through the soil is higher
than for bacteria and parasitic protozoa. This is because of their small size and
low attachment rates, and means that bacteriophages are the most suitable
parameters for assessing the contamination of the abstraction well. In coarser or
fractured soils, bacteria and protozoa can travel long distances and the
persistence of protozoa such as Cryptosporidium sp. make these pathogens
critical for groundwater source quality. Spores of Clostridium perfringens have
been suggested as an index for these persistent pathogens (as outlined earlier).
Estimates based on spores of C. perfringens will be conservative, because of
their smaller size (1 µm versus 4 µm for oocysts) and their even greater
persistence in the environment (Hijnen, unpublished data). The use of spores of
sulphite-reducing clostridia as an approximation of C. perfringens spores is less
appropriate in groundwater systems as (anaerobic) soil is a natural habitat for
Clostridium spp.

      If surface water is a potential source of groundwater contamination, the
presence of freshwater algae in well water suggests that biological particles of
this size (and thus also protozoan parasites, viruses and bacteria) may pass the
soil and contaminate the abstracted water. This was demonstrated in a survey in
the USA. Moulton-Hancock et al. (2000) showed that the presence of aquatic
microbiota was a significant predictor of the presence of Cryptosporidium sp.
and Giardia sp. The microbiota included algae, rotifers, fungi, arthropods,
colourless flagellates, nematodes, amoebae and gastrotrichs. It was found to be
possible to differentiate between high, moderate and low risk groundwaters on
the basis of the quantity and composition of the microbiota present. They
suggested the use of a presence/absence test for algae as a simple tool for the
prediction of the presence of Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp.

     The sample volumes that are used for groundwater monitoring are usually
low (100 ml, despite recommendations to use larger volumes – Fujioka and
Yoneyama, 2001) and the sampling frequency is generally not high (weekly -
monthly). The application of larger volumes and/or increased frequency and
sampling of individual wells/adits increases the sensitivity of tracing faecal
contamination. The monitoring programme should not only cover regular



                                       144
sampling, but also be designed to examine high risk factors, such as rainfall or
the presence of vulnerable sites within the groundwater abstraction system.


4.5.2.1   Turbidity and temperature profile

     Non-microbial parameters can also be used for groundwater monitoring
and give information about potential risks. Turbidity peaks in groundwater may
originate from soil material, but also from the rapid ingress of surface water,
run-off or surface percolate. Temperature measurements at different depths in
boreholes can give information about the characteristics of the major inflows
and rapid changes in temperature call for further investigation, such as
examination for E. coli, C. perfringens, faecal streptococci and bacteriophages.
This is especially important in poorly confined karst and fractured bedrock
aquifers, where it is very difficult to predict flow paths. The major virtue of
turbidity and temperature measurements is that they can be used on-line and in
individual wells. If these indicate a risk event, they can be used to trigger both
further investigations and control measures (shutdown of well, redirection of
abstracted water, increased treatment).


4.5.2.2   Pathogens as self-indicators

     Several groundwater surveys for pathogens have been conducted in the
USA. Keswick and Gerba (1980) found enteric viruses in groundwater wells in
concentrations of 1.2 plaque forming units (pfu)/l. In a nation-wide study in the
USA, 150 wells from various States and aquifer types (70 consolidated,
34 bedrock, 46 unknown) were sampled and analysed for the presence of
viruses and bacteriophages (Abbaszadegan et al., 1999). Enteroviruses were
found in 8.7% of the samples with cell culture and 27% of the samples using
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Hepatitis A was found in 8.0% and rotavirus
was found in 12% of the samples (both using PCR methods). No correlation
was found between enterovirus detected by cell culture and any of the other
microbial indicators tested. These high prevalence rates indicate that virus
contamination of groundwater is a greater public health concern than was
formerly anticipated (Sobsey, 1999).

     Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. have also been used to assess the
contamination of groundwater systems. Hancock et al. (1997) found
Cryptosporidium sp. and/or Giardia sp. in 12% of 463 groundwater samples
from 199 sites in 23 American States. Infiltration galleries, adits and horizontal
wells were most frequently contaminated with these parasites, but they were
also found in springs and vertical wells. The mean concentration of Giardia sp.


                                         145
cysts in positive wells was 8.4/100 l (maximum 120/100 l). For
Cryptosporidium sp., the mean concentration was 5.1/100 l with a maximum of
45/100 l.


4.6       Summary and outlook

      This chapter has illustrated the different ways to:

 •    Localise and characterise the sources of faecal contamination in a
      catchment area; and
 •     Determine the (variability of the) microbial quality of source water
of both surface water and groundwater systems. The objective of these activities
is to collect information to substantiate and support (cost-effective) approaches
to management of the risk of waterborne disease.

     Several developments in recent years are providing new tools to help in the
localisation of contamination sources and especially in understanding the
significance of the sources. One of these developments is the integration of
hydrological modelling and microbiology to construct transport models that
describe and predict the fate of pathogens in both surface water and
groundwater catchments (Schijven and Hassanisadeh, 2000; Deere et al., 2000).
This area is still in the early stages of development, but may significantly
improve our understanding of the fate and ‘behaviour’ of pathogens and
microbial parameters in the aquatic environment. The use of these models also
forces researchers to focus more on the processes that govern transport and fate,
rather than descriptive research on occurrence. A related development is the
application of geographical information systems to localise sources and to relate
contamination to waterborne outbreaks (Rose et al., 2000) or to drinking water
contamination events.

     Microbial and non-microbial parameters provide a wide range of
possibilities for measuring water quality changes and for the detection of faecal
pollution. When these parameters have been used to their limit, pathogen
detection may provide interesting, but difficult to interpret, data (Allan et al.,
2000). Developments in molecular microbiology (see Chapters 7 and 8) have
provided methods that make it possible to detect these pathogenic
microorganisms in water even those, such as Norwalk-like viruses, that could
not previously be detected and analysed. These methods can be more specific
and allow the differentiation of pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains and also
allow genetic fingerprinting which is useful for identifying sources of
contamination.


                                        146
     Similarly, the developments in (computer) technology have improved the
automation of on-line measurements of water flow, temperature and turbidity.
This is particularly helpful for rapid response, as illustrated by the case study
from Melbourne Water, where this type of monitoring is used to divert the flow
of contaminated streams away from the reservoir during storm events.

     These new tools are refining the information available from monitoring
surveys and they are also refining and accelerating the ability to respond to
adverse conditions in a catchment or source water. It should not be forgotten,
however, that much of the information that is needed to design a catchment
protection strategy can be derived from a sanitary survey and that risk events
can be deduced from simple parameters such as rainfall, river flow and
turbidity. This information can be refined by monitoring for a set of microbial
indices of faecal pollution or specific pathogens to obtain data on their
occurrence in source water for the design of cost-effective treatment systems.




                                      147
                                REFERENCES



Abbaszadegan, M., Stewart, P. and LeChevallier, M. (1999) Occurrence of
     viruses in groundwater and groundwater disinfection rule: a nationwide
     study. Proceedings of the Water Quality and Technology Conference,
     Tampa, USA.

Allen, M.J., Clancy, J.L. and Rice, E.W. (2000) Pathogen monitoring – old
      baggage from the last millennium. Journal of the American Water Works
      Association 92(9), 64-76.

Atherholt, T.B., Le Chevallier, M.W., Norton, W.D. and Rosen, J.S. (1998)
      Effect of rainfall on Giardia and Cryptosporidium. Journal of the
      American Water Works Association 90, 66-80.

Bales, R.C., Li, S., Maguire, K.M., Yahya, M.T., Gerba, C.P. and Harvey, R.W.
      (1995) Virus and bacteria transport in a sandy aquifer, Cape Cod, MA.
      Ground Water 33, 653-661.

Bales, R.C., Li, S., Yeh, T.C.J., Lenczewski, M.E. and Gerba, C.P. (1997)
      Bacteriophage and microsphere transport in saturated porous media:
      Forced-gradient experiment at Borden, Ontario. Water Resources
      Research 33, 639-648.

Barbeau, B., Payment, P., Coallier, J., Clément, B. and Prévost, M. (2001)
     Evaluating the risk of infection from the presence of Giardia and
     Cryptosporidium in drinking water. Quantitative Microbiology 2, 37-54.

Bitton, G. and Farrah, S.R. (1980) Viral aspects of sludge application to land.
      American Society of Microbiology News 46, 622-624.

Blanc, R. and Nasser, A. (1996) Effect of effluent quality and temperature on
      the persistence of viruses in soil. Water Science and Technology 33, 237-
      242.




                                       148
Block, J.C., Joret, J.C., Morlot, M., and Foliguet, J.M. (1978) Recherche des
      enterovirus dans les eaux superficielles par adsorption elution sur
      microfibre de verre. Tech. Sci. Munic. 73, 181-185.

Bouchier, I. (1998) Cryptosporidium in water supplies. Third Report of the
     Group of Experts, Dept. of the Environment, Transport and the Regions,
     London.

Byappanahalli, M.N. and Fujioka, R.S. (1998) Evidence that tropical soil
     environment can support the growth of Escherichia coli. Water Science
     and Technology 38(12), 171-174.

Casemore, D.P., Wright, S.E. and Coop, R.L. (1997) Cryptosporidiosis –
     Human and animal epidemiology. In: Cryptosporidium and
     Cryptosporidiosis. Fayer, R. (Ed.) CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA. pp. 65-
     92.

Colwell, R.R. and Grimes, D.J. (2000) Viable but Nonculturable
     Microorganisms in the Environment. ASM Press, Washington, DC.

Craun, G.F., Hubbs, S.A., Frost, F., Calderon, R.L. and Via, S.H. (1998)
     Waterborne outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis. Journal of the American
     Water Works Association 90, 81-91.

Curriero, F.C., Patz, J.A., Rose, J.B. and Lele, S. (2001) The association
      between extreme precipitation and waterborne disease outbreaks in the
      United States, 1948-1994. American Journal of Public Health 91(8),
      1194-1199.

Damgaard-Larsen, S., Jensen, K.O., Lund, E. and Nissen, B. (1977) Water
    Research 11, 503.

DeBorde, D.C., Woessner, W.W., Kiley, Q.T. and Ball, P.N. (1999) Rapid
     transport of viruses in a floodplain aquifer. Water Research 33, 2229-
     2238.

DeBorde, D.C., Woessner, W.W., Lauerman, B. and Ball, P.N. (1998) Virus
     occurrence in a school septic system and unconfined aquifer. Ground
     Water 36, 825-834.

Deere, D., Davison, A., Stevens, M., Hellier, K., Mullenger, J. and Helm, G.
      (2000) Teaching old dogmas new tricks – the Australian approach to



                                      149
      microbiological risk mitigation. Presented at the first World Water
      Congress, IWA, Paris.

DeReignier, D.P., Cole, L., Schupp, D.G., Erlandsen, S.L. (1989) Viability of
     Giardia cysts suspended in lake, river and tap water. Applied and
     Environmental Microbiology 55, 1223-1229.

DWI (1998) Assessment of water supply and associated matters in relation to
     the incidence of cryptosporidiosis in west Herts and north London in
     February and March 1997. Drinking Water Inspectorate, London.

Dykes, A.C., Juranek, D.D., Lorenz, R.A., Sinclair, S., Jakubowski, W. and
     Davies, R.B. (1980) Municipal waterborne giardiasis: an epidemiological
     investigation. Annals of Internal Medicine 92, 165-170.

EC (1975) Directive concerning the quality required for surface water intended
     for the abstraction of drinking water in the Member States. 75/440/EEC.
     Official Journal L194, European Commission, Brussels, Belgium.

Erlandsen, S.L. (1994) Biotic transmission – is giardiasis a zoonosis?. In:
      Giardia from Molecules to Disease. Thompson, R.C.A., Reynoldson, J.A.
      and Lymbery, A.J. (Eds.) CAB Int., Wallingford, UK. pp. 83-97.

Fayer R., Speer C.A. and Dubey, J.P. (1997) The general biology of
      Cryptosporidium. In: Cryptosporidium and Cryptosporidiosis. Fayer R
      (Ed.) CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA. pp. 1-42.

Fayer, R., Speer, C.A. and Dubey, J.P. (1990) In: Cryptosporidiosis of Man and
      Animals. Dubey, J.P. Speer, C.A. and Fayer, R. (Eds.) CRC Press, Boca
      Raton, USA.

Feachem, R.G., Bradley, D.J., Garelick, H. and Mara, D.D. (1983) Sanitation
     and disease: health aspects of excreta and wastewater management. In:
     World Bank Studies in Water Supply and Sanitation 3. Wiley, Chichester,
     UK.

Fenlon, D.R. (1981) Seagulls (Larus spp.) as vectors of salmonellae: an
      investigation into the range of serotypes and numbers of salmonellae in
      gull faeces. Journal of Hygiene (London) 86(2), 195-202.

Feuerpfeil, I. and Bischoff, K. (2001) Ergebnisse von bakteriologischen und
      parasitologischen Untersuchungen an Trinkwassertalsperren in Sachsen
      und Thuringen. Proc. Statusseminar Zur Bedeutung mikrobiologischer


                                      150
      Belastungen fur die Trinkwasserversorgung aus Talsperren-Ein
      Zwischenbilanz. 14-15 Sep. 2000, Hennef, Germany, ATT-Schriftenreihe
      Band 2, Siegburg, Germany, pp.73-106.

Fujioka, R.S. (2001) Monitoring coastal marine waters for spore-forming
      bacteria of faecal and soil origin to determine point from non-point
      source pollution. Water Science and Technology 44(7), 181-188.

Fujioka, R.S. and Yoneyama, B.S. (2001) Assessing the vulnerability of
      groundwater sources to fecal contamination. Journal of the American
      Water Works Association 93(8), 62-71.

Funderburg, S.W. and Sorber, C.A. (1985) Coliphages as indicators of enteric
     viruses in activated sludge. Water Research 19, 547-555.

Geldreich, E.E., Nash, H.D., Spino, D.F. and Reasoner, D.J. (1980) Bacterial
      dynamics in a water supply reservoir: a case study. Journal of the
      American Water Works Association 72, 31-40.

Geldreich, E. E. (1970) Applying bacteriological parameters to recreational
      water quality. Journal of the American Water Works Association 62, 113-
      120.

Geldreich, E.E. (1990) Microbiological quality of source waters for water
      supply. In: Drinking Water Microbiology. McFeters, G.A. (Ed.) Springer
      Verlag, New York, USA.

Geldreich, E.E. (1996) The worldwide threat of waterborne pathogens. In:
      Water Quality in Latin America. Balancing the Microbial and Chemical
      Risks in Drinking Water Disinfection. Craun, G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press,
      Washington DC, USA, pp. 19-43.

Gerba C.P. and Bitton, G. (1984) Microbial pollutants: their survival and
     transport pattern to groundwater. In: Groundwater Pollution
     Microbiology. Bitton, G. and Gerba, C.P. (Eds.) John Wiley and Sons,
     New York, pp. 65-88.

Gerba, C. P. (1984) Applied and theoretical aspects of virus adsorption to
     surfaces. Advances in Applied Microbiology 30, 133-168.

Gerba, C. P. et al. (1978) Characterisation of sewage solid-associated viruses
     and behaviour in natural waters. Water Resources Research 12, 805-812.



                                      151
Gibson III, C.J., Stadterman, K.L., States, S. and Sykora, J. (1998) Combined
     sewer overflows: a source of Cryptosporidium and Giardia? Water
     Science and Technology 38, 67-72.

Grabow, W.O.K., Holtzhausen, C.S. and DeVilliers, J.C. (1993) Research on
     bacteriophages as indicators of water quality. Water Research
     Commission, Pretoria, South Africa. Project Report 321, 147pp.

Graczyk, T.K., Fayer, R., Trout, J.M., Lewis, E.J., Farley, C.A., Sulaiman, I.
     and Lai., A.A. (1998) Giardia sp. and infectious Cryptosporidium
     parvum oocysts in the feces of migratory Canada Geese (Branta
     canadensis). Applied and Environmental Microbiology 64, 2736-2738.

Graczyk, T.K., Cranfield, M.R., Fayer, R. and Anderson, M.S. (1996) Viability
     and infectivity of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts are retained upon
     intestinal passage through a refractory avian host. Applied and
     Environmental Microbiology 62, 3234-3237.

Grimes, D.J. (1980) Bacteriological water quality effects of hydraulically
     dredging contaminated Upper Mississippi River bottom sediment.
     Applied and Environmental Microbiology 39, 782-789.

Grimes, D.J. (1982) Bacteriological water quality effects of clamshell dredging.
     Journal of Freshwater Ecology 1, 407-419.

Hagedorn, C. (1984) Microbiological aspects of groundwater pollution due to
     septic tanks. In: Groundwater Pollution Microbiology. Bitton, G. and
     Gerba, C.P. (Eds.) John Wiley and Sons, New York, pp. 65-88.

Hancock, C.M., Rose, J.B. and Callahan, M. (1997) The prevalence of
     Cryptosporidium and Giardia in US groundwaters. Proceedings of the
     International Symposium on Waterborne Cryptosporidium, March 1997,
     Newport Beach, USA, AWWA pp. 147-152.

Hansen, J.S. and Ongerth, J.E. (1991) Effects of time and watershed
     characteristics on the concentration of Cryptosporidium oocysts in river
     water. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 57, 2790-2795.

Havelaar. A.H., Furuse, K. and Hogeboom, W.M. (1986) Bacteriophages and
     indicator bacteria in human and animal faeces. Journal of Applied
     Bacteriology 60, 255-262.




                                      152
Havelaar, A.H., van Olphen, M. and Drost, Y.C. (1993) F-specific RNA
     bacteriophages are adequate model organisms for enteric viruses in fresh
     water. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 59, 2956-2962.

Havelaar, A.H. (1996) The place of microbiological monitoring in the
     production of safe drinking water. In: Safety of Water Disinfection:
     Balancing Chemical and Microbial Risks. Craun, G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press,
     Washington DC, USA, pp.127-144.

Keswick, B.H. (1984) Sources of groundwater pollution. In: Groundwater
     Pollution Microbiology. Bitton, G. and Gerba, C.P. (Eds.) John Wiley &
     Sons, New York, pp. 39-64.

Keswick, B.H. and Gerba, C.P (1980) Viruses in groundwater. Environmental
     Science and Technology 14,1290-1297.

Koenraad, P.M.F.J., Hazeleger, W.C., van der Laan, T., Beumer, R.R. and
     Rombouts, F.M. (1994) Prevalence of Campylobacter in Dutch sewage
     purification plants. Food Microbiology 11, 65-73.

LaBelle, R.L. and Gerba, C.P.(1980) Relationships between environmental
     factors, bacterial indicators, and the occurrence of enteric viruses in
     estuarine sediments. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 39, 588-
     596.

LaLiberte, P. and Grimes, D.J. (1982) Survival of Escherichia coli in lake
     bottom sediment. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 43, 623-628.

Lassen, J. (1972) Yersinia enterocolitica in drinking water.
      Scandinavian Journal of Infectious Disease 4,125-127.

LeChevallier, M.W. and Norton, W.D. (1995) Giardia and Cryptosporidium in
     raw and finished water. Journal of the American Water Works
     Association, 87, 54-68.

Lucena, F., Finance, C., Jofre, J., Sancho, J. and Schwartzbrod, L. (1982) Viral
     pollution determination of superficial waters (river water and seawater)
     from the urban area of Barcelona (Spain). Water Research 16, 173-177.

MacKenzie, W.R., Hoxie, N.J., Proctor, M.E., Gradus, M.S., Blair, K.A.,
    Peterson, D.E., Kazmierczak, J.J., Addiss, D.G., Fox, K.R., Rose, J.B.
    and David, J.P. (1994) A massive outbreak in Milwaukee of



                                      153
      Cryptosporidium infection transmitted through the public water supply.
      New England Journal of Medicine 331(3), 161-167.

Mara, D. and Cairncross, S. (1989) Guidelines for the safe use of wastewater
      and excreta in agriculture and aquaculture. World Health Organization,
      Geneva.

Mathess, G., Pekdeger, A. and Schroeter, J. (1988) Persistence and transport of
     bacteria and viruses in groundwater - a conceptual evaluation. Journal of
     Contamination and Hydrology 2, 171-188.

McLellan, P. (1998) Sydney Water Inquiry. Fifth and final report. New South
     Wales, Premier’s Dept., Sydney, Australia.

McNabb, J.F. and Mallard, G.E. (1984) Microbiological sampling in the
    assessment of groundwater pollution. In: Groundwater Pollution
    Microbiology. Bitton, G. and Gerba, C.P. (Eds.) John Wiley & Sons, New
    York, pp. 235-260.

Medema, GJ. (1999) Thesis: Cryptosporidium and Giardia: New Challenges to
    the Water Industry. University of Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Medema, G.J., Bahar, M. and Schets, F.M. (1997) Survival of Cryptosporidium
    parvum, Escherichia coli, faecal enterococci and Clostridium perfringens
    in river water: Influence of temperature and autochthonous
    microorganisms. Water Science and Technology 35(11-12), 249-252.

Medema, G., Ketelaars, H. and Hoogenboezem, W. (2000a) Cryptosporidium
    and Giardia: vóórkomen in rioolwater, mest en oppervlaktewater met
    zwem- en drinkwaterfunctie. RIWA/RIVM/RIZA/Kiwa rapport. ISBN
    9036953324. Report in Dutch.

Medema, G.J., Juhasz-Holterman and Luijten, J. (2000b) Removal of
    microorganisms by bank filtration in a gravel sand soil. Proceedings of
    the International Riverbank Filtration Conference, November 2000,
    Dusseldorf, Germany.

Medema, G.J., Ketelaars, H.A.M., Hoogenboezem, W. and Schijven, J. (2000c)
    Cryptosporidium en Giardia: het probleem, de oorzaken en de
    beheersing. H2O 33(23), 31-34.




                                      154
Moore, G.T., Cross, W.M., McGuire, D., Molahan, C.S., Gleason, N.N., Nealy,
     G.R. and Newton, L.H. (1969) Epidemic giardiasis in a ski resort. New
     England Journal of Medicine 281, 402-407.

Morris, B.L. and Foster, S.S.D. (2000) Cryptosporidium contamination hazard
      assessment and risk management for British groundwater sources. Water
      Science and Technology 41(7), 67-78.

Moulton-Hancock, C., Rose, J.B., Vasconcelos, G.J., Harris, S.I., Klonicki, P.T.
     and Sturbaum, G.D. (2000) Giardia and Cryptosporidium occurrence in
     groundwater. Journal of the American Water Works Association 92,
     117-123.

Nasser, A.M., Tchorch, Y. and Fattal, B. (1992) Comparative survival of E.
      coli, F+bacteriophages, HAV and poliovirus 1 in wastewater and
      groundwater. Water Science and Technology 27, 401-407.

Nestor, L., Lazar, L., Sourea, D. and Ionescu, N. (1981) Investigations on viral
      pollution in the Romanian section of the Danube river during 1972-1977
      period. Zbl. Bakt. Hyg. I. Abt. Orig. B, 173, 517-527.

Olson, B. (1996) Pathogen occurrence in source waters: factors affecting
      survival and growth. In: Safety of Water Disinfection: Balancing
      Chemical and Microbial Risks. Craun, G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press, Washington
      DC, USA, pp.83-98.

Payment, P. (1981) Isolation of viruses from drinking water of the Pont-Viau
     water treatment plant. Canadian Journal of Microbiology 29, 111-119.

Payment, P., Fortin, S. and Trudel, M. (1986) Elimination of human enteric
     viruses during conventional waste water treatment by activated sludge.
     Canadian Journal of Microbiology 32, 922-925.

Payment, P., Berte, A., Prevost, M., Ménard, B. and Barbeau, B. (2000)
     Occurrence of pathogenic microorganisms in the Saint-Lawrence river
     (Canada) and comparison of health risks for populations using it as their
     source of drinking water. Canadian Journal of Microbiology 46, 565-
     576.

Pieper, A.P., Ryan, J.N., Harvey, R.W., Amy, G.L., Illangasekare, T.H. and
      Metge, D.W. (1997) Transport and recovery of bacteriophage PRD1 in a
      sand and gravel aquifer: Effect of sewage-derived organic matter.
      Environmental Science and Technology 31, 1163-1170.


                                      155
Poulton, M., Colbourn. J. and Dennis, P.J. (1991) Thames Water’s experience
      with Cryptosporidium. Water Science and Technology 24, 21-26.

Rivera, S.C., Hazen, T.C. and Toranzos, G.A. (1988) Isolation of fecal
      coliforms from pristine sites in a tropical rain forest. Applied and
      Environmental Microbiology 54(2), 513-517.

Robertson, L.J., Campbell, A.T. and Smith, H.V. (1992) Survival of
     Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts under various environmental pressures.
     Applied and Environmental Microbiology 58, 3494-3500.

Rolland, D., Hartemann, P., Joret, J.C., Hassen, A. and Foliguet, J.M. (1983)
      Evaluation of the load of enteroviruses in a biological waste water
      treatment plant. Water Science and Technology 15, 115-121.

Rose, J.B., Daeschner, S., Easterling, D.R., Curriero, F.C., Lele, S. and Patz,
      J.A. (2000) Climate and waterborne outbreaks in the US: a preliminary
      descriptive analysis. Journal of the American Water Works Association
      92(9), 77-87.

Schijven, J.F. and Hassanisadeh, S.M. (2000) Removal of viruses by soil
      passage: overview of modelling, processes and parameters. Critical
      Reviews in Environmental Science and Technology 31, 49-125.

Schijven, J.F. and Rijs, G. (2000) Rioolwater en mest als emissiebronnen voor
      Cryptosporidium en Giardia. H2O, 33(23), 25-27.

Schoenen, D. (2001) Analyse und Bewertung trinkwasserbedingter
     erkrankungen durch Parasiten. Proc. Statusseminar Zur Bedeutung
     mikrobiologischer Belastungen fur die Trinkwasserversorgung aus
     Talsperren-Ein Zwischenbilanz. 14-15 Sep. 2000, Hennef, Germany,
     ATT-Schriftenreihe Band 2, Siegburg, Germany, pp. 49-69.

Sobsey, M.D., Shields, P.A., Hauchman, F.H., Hazard, R.L. and Caton, L.W.
     (1986) Survival and transport of hepatitis A virus in soils, groundwater
     and wastewater. Water Science and Technology 18, 97-106.

Sobsey, M. (1999) Monitoring for faecal viruses in ground water Proceedings of
     the Water Quality and Technology Conference, November 1999, Tampa,
     USA, AWWA.

Stewart, M.H., Ferguson, D.M., DeLeon, R. and Taylor, W.D. (1997)
     Monitoring program to determine pathogen occurrence in relationship to


                                       156
      storm events and watershed conditions. Proceedings of the Water Quality
      and Technology Conference, November 1999, Tampa, USA, AWWA.

Tartera, C., Jofre, J. and Lucena, F. (1988) Relationship between numbers of
      enteroviruses and bacteriophages infecting Bacteriodes fragilis in
      different environmental samples. Environmental Technology Letters 9,
      407-410.

Tartera, C., Lucena, F. and Jofre, J. (1989) Human origin of Bacteriodes fragilis
      bacteriophages present in the environment. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 55, 2696-2701.

Traverso, H.P. (1996) Water and health in Latin America and the Caribbean:
      infectious waterborne diseases. In: Water Quality in Latin America.
      Balancing the Microbial and Chemical Risks in Drinking Water
      Disinfection. Craun, G.F. (Ed.) ILSI Press, Washington DC, USA, pp.
      45-54.

van Donsel, D.J. and Geldreich, E.E. (1971) Relationsips of salmonella to fecal
     coliforms in bottom sediments. Water Research 5, 1079-1087.

van Olphen, M., Kapsenberg, J.G., van der Baan, E. and Kroon, W.A. (1984)
      Removal of enteric viruses from surface water at eight waterworks in the
      Netherlands. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 47, 927-932.

Vaughn, J.M., Landry, E.F., Baranosky, L.J. Beckwith, C.A., Dahl, M.C. and
     Delihas, N.C. (1978) Applied and Environmental Microbiology, 36, 47.

Wellings, F.M., Lewis, A.L., Mountain, C.W. and Stark, L.M. (1974) Virus
      survival following wastewater spray irrigation of sandy soils. In: Virus
      Survival in Water and Wastewater Systems. Malina, J.F. and Sagik, B.P.
      (Eds.) University of Texas, Austin, United States, pp. 253-260.

Whitlock, E.A. (1954) The waterborne diseases of microbial origin.
      Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the National Association of
      Bath Superintendents. Anderson Ltd, Stepney Green, UK, p.3-19.

WHO (1989) Guidelines for the Safe Use of Wastewater and Excreta in
    Agriculture and Aquaculture. World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (1997) Guidelines for drinking water quality. Second Edition. Volume 3.
    Surveillance and control of community supplies Second Edition. World
    Health Organization, Geneva.


                                      157
WRc (1991) Surrogate viral indicators. Water Research Centre, Marlow. Report
     no. FR/D 0005, Foundation for Water Research, UK.

Woo, P.K. (1984) Evidence for animal reservoirs and transmission of Giardia
     infection between species. In: Giardia and Giardiasis. Erlandsen, S.L.
     and Meyer, E.A. (Eds.) Plenum Press, New York, USA, pp. 341.




                                    158
                                    Chapter 5

                        TREATMENT EFFICIENCY



                  G. Stanfield, M. Lechevallier and M. Snozzi




5.1      Introduction

     The primary purpose of water treatment is to provide drinking water to
consumers that is free of waterborne pathogens. Because no single treatment
process can be expected to remove all of the different types of pathogens that
can be found in water (under all conditions), multiple barriers are desirable.
Multiple barriers will also ensure additional safety in the case that a single
treatment step is not working optimally. The number of treatment processes
(technical barriers) required is influenced by the quality of the source water (see
Chapter 4). Groundwaters that are protected from surface influence are usually
of relatively good quality and so traditionally few, if any, treatment processes
are required. Lowland surface water sources are usually of much poorer quality
and more treatment processes are needed to provide an acceptable level of
safety.

     A number of treatment processes are also designed to modify the chemical
and physical properties of the water (rather than pathogen elimination). State of
the art treatment includes techniques to reduce AOC and reducing matter, so
that on the one hand the regrowth of the pathogens in the distribution system is
low and on the other hand the disinfection is more effective. This chapter,
however, does not detail such processes but concentrates solely on the reduction
of faecal-oral infection risk.

     A wide spectrum of pathogenic agents can be found in water and
monitoring for their presence on a routine basis is impracticable. Traditionally
(as outlined in Chapter 1) microbial safety of drinking water has been confirmed



                                       159
by monitoring for the absence of microorganisms of faecal origin. Bacteria such
as E. coli, faecal streptococci and Clostridia have been used for this purpose,
because they are consistently present in high numbers in the faeces of warm-
blooded animals and are relatively easy to detect in water. These bacteria and
groups of bacteria are microbial indices of faecal pollution and form the basis of
guidelines and national standards.

     It has been recognised that the microbial indicator parameters do not
necessarily behave in the same way as certain pathogens in water treatment
processes. The ability of treatment processes to remove specific pathogens has
been directly measured, with such studies typically conducted at bench or pilot
scale some of them using water spiked with pathogens (Sommer and Cabaj,
1993; Jacangelo et al., 1995; Bellamy et al., 1985; Hunt and Mariñas, 1999).
The potential removal determined in such pilot studies will, however, not
necessarily be achieved in full-scale treatment. Therefore, there is a need for
alternative parameters that correlate more closely with the behaviour of specific
pathogens both to assess the disinfection potential of full-scale treatment and to
measure process performance during treatment.

      Safe drinking water is the result of careful evaluation of source water
quality and variation (as outlined in Chapter 4) and adequate, reliable treatment
processes combined with performance monitoring to assure that treatment is
within operating parameters. The focus for the control of process operation
should be put on simple measurements, which can be done on-line. If the input
to the system and its normal performance is known, the on-line measurement
will be a perfect indication of disturbances and changes in the water quality.
This shifts the emphasis of quality control of drinking water from end product
testing (i.e. testing for failure) to the testing and control of treatment processes
(i.e. preventing failure). Current treatment processes and appropriate indicators
of performance are discussed below.

     A verification of the quality at the end of the treatment chain is necessary.
For this purpose non microbial parameters like flow, colour and disinfectant
residual (where appropriate) are suitable (see also Chapter 2, Table 2.4).
Microbial parameters for the validation of the treatment process include E. coli,
total and thermotolerant coliforms, heterotrophic bacteria and aerobic spore-
forming bacteria. However, it should be stressed that this verification should not
be mistaken as a determination of the safety of the drinking water.




                                        160
5.2        Microbial treatment efficiency

    A review of the available data on treatment efficiencies has been published
by LeChevallier and Au (2002). Disinfection can be achieved in two ways:

 •      The physical removal of the pathogens.
 •      The inactivation (death) of the pathogen.

     Apart from careful characterisation of the disinfection potential of a given
treatment process (which in many cases involves experimental determinations)
it is also important to identify simple measurements that give information
rapidly on whether the treatment process is working properly. For the latter,
physical and chemical measurements (preferably on-line measurements) are
often better than microbial determinations.

     A review of potential inactivation rates for different disinfection treatments
has been published by Sobsey (1989). More recently, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA, 1999) has compiled data on
achievable disinfection efficiencies for various processes and combinations of
treatment steps. Although the actual inactivation will be influenced by many
factors (including the ability of many of the microbial parameters to remain
viable while becoming non-culturable), the following subsections list typical
ranges reported for each treatment process. Although retention of water in
reservoirs and impoundments can bring about significant improvements in
quality as a result of inactivation, sedimentation and predation this process is
not discussed here. For more details the reader is referred to the review by
LeChevallier and Au (2002). For more precise evaluation of the reduction of
individual pathogens by a treatment process, specific experimental
determination is necessary.


5.2.1      Coagulation and sedimentation

     The most common coagulants in use throughout the world are aluminium
sulphate, ferric sulphate, ferric chloride and poly-aluminium chloride. These
coagulants are mixed into the water where they produce hydroxide precipitates
that are ‘fluffy’ and enmesh particles and microbes along with some of the
dissolved organic carbon. In some circumstances, flocs generated by aluminium
and ferric salts can be strengthened by the addition of coagulant aids such as
long chain organic polymers. The flocs formed by this process must be
removed. This can be achieved by sedimentation or, if the flocs are very light,




                                        161
fine air bubbles may be used to carry them to the surface (air flotation) where
they are skimmed off. They can also be removed by direct filtration.

     Various forms of coagulation and sedimentation are used in water
treatment and there are differences in general practices between countries,
which makes the comparison of data difficult. However, published data indicate
that this process may remove between 40% and 99% of bacteria, which
translates into 0.2 and 2 logs of removal. Removal of viruses is rather poor,
below 1 log, whereas for parasites such as Cryptosporidium removal of up to
2 logs has been reported.

    The retention of the formed flocs is very important because of the
accumulation of pathogens, since even single flocs may contain sufficient
numbers of pathogens to be of hygienic importance (Gale et al., 1997).
Continuous measurements of turbidity or particle counts are useful for
monitoring the efficiency of this process.


5.2.2     Filtration

     Various filtration processes are used in drinking water treatment. Used
with proper design and operation, filtration can act as a consistent and effective
barrier against microbial pathogens. Filtration processes that are used in potable
water treatment and the pore size of filter medium are shown in Figure 5.1,
along with the sizes of selected microbial particles. This provides an insight into
the removal mechanisms and likely efficiencies of the different filtration
processes.

      Filtration is a physical removal of organisms together with other
particulate matter. On-line measurements of turbidity or particle counts, as well
as determination of particle size distribution are excellent control parameters for
this process. If parallel filtration units are operated, it is essential that each unit
is measured separately in order to ensure the recognition of poor performance in
an individual filter unit.




                                         162
             Figure 5.1. Filter medium pore sizes and the size of microbial particles
                     (with selected microorganisms marked with numbers)

                                     (Adapted from LeChevallier and Au, 2002)


              R O                                                         B F /C F
                               N F                                    M F                                           G F
                                                U F


                                                V ir u s e s

                                                                                B a c te r ia

                                                                                                               A lg a e

                                                                                        P ro to z o a n c y s ts

                                                1     2 3            4 5 6                7           8              9


1 0   -1 0
                    1 0   -9
                                     1 0   -8
                                                       1 0     -7
                                                                          1 0     -6
                                                                                                1 0       -5
                                                                                                                         1 0 -4        1 0   -3

                                                                                                                           s iz e in m
Key:
RO: reverse osmosis. NF: nanofiltration. UF: ultrafiltration. MF: microfiltration. BF/CF: bag and
cartridge filters. GF: granular filtration including slow sand filtration (slow sand filters have lower
pore sizes than rapid-rate filters)
1. MS2 bacteriophage. 2. Rotavirus. 3. PRDI bacteriophage. 4. Mycobacterium avium complex
(represents smallest size). 5. Yersinia spp. 6. Coliform bacteria. 7. Cryptosporidium oocysts.
8. Giardia cysts. 9. Balanthidium coli cysts.



5.2.2.1             Rapid filtration

      Rapid filters are deep beds (0.6-1.0 metres) of sand, anthracite and sand or
granular activated carbon. The particle size of the medium is usually about
1 mm. They are operated at flow velocities of about 5-15 metres per hour. Rapid
filters retain most of the flocs and other particles that escape chemical
coagulation and sedimentation. The size of particles that can be removed in
deep-bed filtration can be much smaller than the pore size of the filter (Hall,


                                                                    163
1998). This is due to electrostatic adhesion causing adsorption of particles that
are in close proximity to the filter medium. Rapid filters are stopped and
backwashed according to a time cycle (usually 24 hours), when flow becomes
excessively restricted due to clogging or when the turbidity or particle counts of
the filtrate become unacceptably high.

      The microbial removal efficiency of rapid filters can be influenced by a
number of factors. Correct operation and maintenance of rapid filters is essential
otherwise performance may be lost. In poorly maintained filters, cracks have
been observed particularly near the walls, which allow unfiltered material to
pass through, decreasing the bacteriological quality of the filtrate. Changes in
the flow rate can dislodge deposits containing microorganisms causing them to
pass into the filtrate. When a filter is put back into service after backwashing,
the initial filtrate is of poor quality in terms of turbidity and bacterial numbers.
This is due to displacement of residual backwash water, and the lower
efficiency of the clean filter media, compared with a partly used (ripened) filter
(Amirtharajah and Wetstein, 1980). For this reason the initial filtrate may be run
to waste or returned to the start of the treatment processes for a period of up to
30 minutes. Alternatively a ‘slow start’ procedure may be used in which the
flow rate through the filter is restricted until the filtrate becomes of acceptable
quality. Additionally, backwash water should not be recycled within the
treatment plant.

     Published data indicate that coagulation combined with rapid filtration may
remove between 2 and 3 logs of bacteria, while reported removal of viruses
range from 1 to 3 logs and for parasites such as Cryptosporidium 2 to 3 logs.
Continuous measurements of turbidity and/or particle counts are important for
monitoring.


5.2.2.2   Slow sand filtration

      Slow sand filtration is a biological treatment process, which has to be used
without coagulation pre-treatment. Other pre-treatment, particularly rapid
filtration, may be used to remove high particle loads. Typically, a slow sand
filter has a depth of about 0.7 metres and is operated at flow rates of 0.1 to
0.3 metres/hour compared to 5-15 metres/hour in rapid filters. The sand is
mixed in size ranging from 0.15 to 0.35 mm. The pores are still quite large at
about 60 µm. Although there is some filtration in depth, as in rapid sand
filtration, the vital process is the formation of a biologically active layer (the
Schmutzdecke) in the top 20 mm. Optimum treatment performance is dependent
on a well-established Schmutzdecke. This provides an effective surface
filtration of very small particles, including bacteria, parasites and viruses.


                                        164
      Any particles that pass through the Schmutzdecke may be retained in the
remaining depth of the sand by the same mechanisms as exist in rapid filtration.
The growth of the Schmutzdecke and its retention of particles cause a loss of
permeability in the top layer of sand so that after some weeks of operation, flow
rates decline. When this occurs, the filter is taken out of service and the top 20-
30 mm removed by skimming. Slow sand filters are known for their high
efficiency in removing bacteria and parasites, but small channels can occur in
the filter if not properly operated and maintained which influence performance.
In well-maintained systems with slow sand filtration it is possible to achieve a
performance similar to a combination of coagulation and filtration. Continuous
measurements of turbidity and/or particle counts are important for monitoring.


5.2.2.3   Activated carbon filtration

     Activated carbon filters are predominantly used to remove organic
compounds. However, they may also affect counts of microbial organisms
including reduction of viruses and parasites. Due to growth in the filters,
increased heterotrophic plate counts and total coliform counts can sometimes be
observed.


5.2.2.4   Membrane filtration

     In membrane filtration water is passed through a thin film, which retains
contaminants according to their size. Membrane filtration has been playing an
increasing role in drinking water treatment, including pathogen removal. The
most commonly used membrane processes in drinking water treatment for
microbial removal are microfiltration (MF) and ultrafiltration (UF) (see
Figure 5.1). Detailed description of the fundamentals, design and operation of
these processes are available in the literature (AWWARF, 1996; Taylor and
Wiesner, 1999). Other membrane processes such as reverse osmosis (RO) and
nanofiltration (NF), which are used primarily for other purposes, also remove
pathogens.

     Membrane filtration removes microbial pathogens primarily by size
exclusion; microbes with sizes greater than the membrane pore size are
removed. Chemical coagulation prior to the membrane is not a requirement for
microbe removal. However, some degree of pre-treatment must be employed to
reduce membrane fouling. Fouling arises from accumulation of chemicals,
particles and the growth of organisms on membrane surfaces, resulting in
reduced membrane productivity. Once fouling accumulates to such a level that
the productivity of the system is unacceptable, the membranes must be


                                        165
chemically cleaned to restore productivity. Advanced pre-treatment systems
such as conventional coagulation-sedimentation-filtration or other membrane
processes may also be considered, depending on the quality of the source water.

     Published data indicate that membrane filtration may remove up to 6 logs
of bacteria, viruses or parasites. Process performance is generally monitored by
measurement of physical parameters such as pressure drops across the
membrane.

5.2.3     Chemical inactivation
      Chemical disinfection to inactivate pathogens is an important treatment
barrier. Chemicals used include chlorine, chloramine, chlorine dioxide and
ozone. Treatment effectiveness is a function of dose, contact time, temperature
and sometimes pH. Chemical disinfection can be placed at different positions in
the treatment train and more than one disinfectant can be used, however it is
important to note that organisms entrapped in particles may be shielded from
the action of the chemicals. Primary disinfection is the process by which
microorganisms are inactivated during the treatment process, while a secondary
disinfectant can be added prior to distribution to maintain the water quality
within the distribution system. Secondary disinfection provides a final barrier
against bacterial contamination and regrowth within the distribution system.
The practice of residual disinfection is, however, controversial (IWSA, 1998). It
has been suggested that if biological stability is achieved and the system is well
maintained then the disinfectant is unnecessary and may mask ingress into the
distribution system by killing the bacterial indicators (but not the more robust
pathogen microorganisms).

       The concept of disinfectant concentration and contact time is integral to the
understanding of disinfection kinetics and the practical application of the CT
concept (which is defined as the product of the residual disinfectant
concentration [C in mg/l] and the contact time [T in minutes], that residual
disinfectant is in contact with water – USEPA, 1999) is important. Allowance
must be made for the decline in concentration over time and in measuring time
it is important to take account of the hydraulic behaviour of the treatment plant
(in particular any short-circuiting). Temperature, over the range appropriate for
drinking water, affects the rate of disinfection reactions according to the
Arrhenius Law, although some deviations have been noted for certain
disinfectants at low temperatures. The pH of the disinfectant solution also
affects reaction kinetics. Table 5.1 outlines CT values for inactivation of
viruses.




                                        166
                        Table 5.1. CT values for virus inactivation

                                        (USEPA, 1999)

                                                             Inactivation
Disinfectant           Units                2-log               3-log                4-log
           1
Chlorine               mg min/l               3                   4                    6
               2
Chloramine             mg min/l              643                1 067               1 491
                   3
Chlorine dioxide       mg min/l              4.2                 12.8                25.1
Ozone                  mg min/l              0.5                 0.8                  1.0
                                  2
UV                     mW s/cm               21                   36            not available
1. Values based on a temperature of 10 °C, pH range 6 to 9, and a free chlorine residual of 0.2 to
0.5 mg/l.
2. Values based on a temperature of 10 °C and a pH of 8.
3. Values based on a temperature of 10 °C and a pH range of 6 to 9.



5.2.3.1        Chlorination

     Chlorination can take a number of forms including the use of chlorine,
chloramines and chlorine dioxide. Each chemical has different disinfecting
properties. Monochloramine (formed by the combination of chlorine with
nitrogenous compounds) has a lower disinfection activity than chlorine but is
more stable. Chlorine dioxide may be chosen because of its greater
effectiveness against parasites.

      Nearly 100 years of drinking water chlorination has demonstrated its
effectiveness in the inactivation of microbial pathogens and the benefits of
chlorination out-weigh any disadvantages, such as production of
trihalomethanes. Enteric viruses are generally more resistant to chlorine than
enteric bacteria, and viruses associated with cellular debris or organic particles
may require high levels of disinfection due to the protective nature of the
particle surface. Chlorination is considered to be highly effective for virus
inactivation if the water has a turbidity of ≤ 1.0 nephelometric turbidity units
(NTU), a free chlorine residual of 1.0 or greater for at least 30 minutes, and a
pH of < 8.0. Protozoan cysts such as those of Cryptosporidium and Giardia
lamblia, however, are highly resistant to chlorine disinfection (USEPA, 1989).
Other factors that influence microbial sensitivity to chlorine include surface
attachment, encapsulation, aggregation and low-nutrient growth.

     Chlorine is a strong disinfectant that is effective at inactivating bacteria
and viruses and, under certain circumstances, Giardia. CT values for 2 log
inactivation of vegetative bacteria may vary between 0.02 and 200 mg min/l


                                              167
(Grohmann, A; 2002) This wide range depends on a number of factors
particularly the presence of reducing matter. One purpose of water treatment,
therefore, is to eliminate such matter from water prior to chlorination. Residual
levels of reducing matter can be determined by electrochemical methods such as
oxidation-reduction-potential (ORP) measurements. The use of high dosage of
chlorine is, therefore, by itself not a guarantee of safe drinking water as the
presence of reducing matter may result in high concentrations of disinfection
by-products (DBP), such as trihalomethanes (THM), which are toxic.

     No significant reduction of Cryptosporidium is achieved with conventional
CT values. Since pH, temperature and chemical composition will influence the
disinfection potential they need to be monitored together with the CT
measurements.

     Because of the weak disinfecting power of monochloramine, it is not
recommended as a primary disinfectant and it is ineffective in the inactivation
of Cryptosporidium. Most systems using monochloramine apply a short period
of free chlorine prior to ammonia addition or use an alternative (e.g. ozone,
chlorine dioxide) primary disinfectant. Chloramines have CT values of more
than 80 mg min/l for a 2 log inactivation of bacteria; values for the same
inactivation of viruses are above 600 mg min/l and, therefore, they are only
suitable for the inactivation of bacteria.

     Chlorine dioxide is a strong oxidant as well as a powerful disinfectant and,
therefore, can be used for the control of iron, manganese and taste and odour
causing compounds as well as a primary disinfectant. It has also been used as a
secondary disinfectant in many European countries. However, chlorine dioxide
forms inorganic by-products (chlorite and chlorate ions) upon reaction with
water constituents, and a water supplier may need to provide additional
treatment depending on the level of these inorganic by-products and specific
regulatory requirements. Chlorine dioxide is roughly comparable to free
chlorine for inactivation of bacteria and viruses at neutral pH (), but it is more
effective than free chlorine at an alkaline pH of 8.5 (Hoff and Geldreich, 1981).
CT values for chlorine dioxide resulting in a 2 log inactivation of vegetative
bacteria are less than 1 mg min/l. While values around 4 mg min/l have been
reported for viruses and those for Giardia inactivation are around 15 mg min/l.
Temperature and chemical composition need to be monitored together with the
CT measurements (or calculations) and chlorine residual.

     Chlorination usually takes place at a central treatment point but,
particularly in developing countries, there is growing interest in applying it at
household level. Sachets or tablets of a chlorine compound (sometimes together
with a coagulant to remove turbidity) are sometimes used. Decentralised


                                       168
production of sodium hypochlorite is now possible from the electrolysis of a
solution of common salt and this may provide a cost-effective source of chlorine
solution. Combined coagulant-disinfectant tablets or powders or use of a
solution of sodium hypochlorite are available for household water treatment
(Sobsey, 2002).


5.2.3.2   Ozonation

     Ozone has been used for more than a century for water treatment, mostly
in Europe, but this usage is spreading to other areas. Despite this long use, the
exact mechanism of how ozone inactivates microbes is not well understood,
although it is known that ozone in aqueous solutions may react with microbes
by direct reaction with the molecular ozone, or via reaction with the radical
species formed on ozone decomposition.

      Of the vegetative bacteria, E. coli is one of the most sensitive to ozone
disinfection, while Gram-positive cocci (Staphylococcus and Streptococcus),
the Gram-positive bacilli (Bacillus) and the mycobacteria are the most resistant.
Mycobacterium avium can be effectively controlled by low doses of ozone,
whereas the organism is highly resistant to free chlorine. It has been reported
that heterotrophic plate count bacteria may be less susceptible to ozone
inactivation than other indicator organisms. Viruses are generally more resistant
to ozone than vegetative bacteria, although phages appear to be more sensitive
than human viruses. Ozone is effective against Giardia and to a lesser extent
Cryptosporidium. Because ozone does not produce a stable residual it is
frequently followed by chlorination to produce a residual disinfectant for
distribution. Due to the relatively fast decay of ozone even in pure water,
hydraulics of the ozonation reactor are very important (see below).

     Ozone will oxidise organic components present in the water, such as
natural organic matter to produce smaller organic substances. Since these are
usually more biodegradable, ozonation will increase bacterial growth after
treatment. To prevent this, post ozonation removal of the oxidation products is
necessary.

     Ozone is a very powerful disinfectant for inactivation of vegetative
bacteria. CT values below 0.5 mg min/l are reported for 2 log reduction of
bacteria. CT values between 0.5 and 1 mg min/l are required for a 2 log
inactivation of viruses. Inactivation of protozoa like Giardia is possible at
temperatures above 15°C with CT values of 0.7 mg min/l for 2 log inactivation,
while at 5°C the CT value increases to 1.3 mg min/l. For the same inactivation
of Cryptosporidium the CT values required are about ten times higher. Content


                                      169
of organic carbon will also influence the disinfection efficiency. Therefore the
measurement of CT values needs to include control of temperature and quality
of water entering the ozonation reactor.


Case study: Hydraulics of an ozonation reactor

      In Switzerland, food-related laws and regulations require health risks
assessment and the evaluation of critical treatment steps in drinking water
production. In the city of Zurich, a considerable fraction of drinking water is
produced from lake water following a multistage procedure. During a health
risk assessment the hydraulics of the ozonation reactor were evaluated by
addition of a concentrated sodium chloride solution to the water inlet of the
reactor for a period of two hours. Five sampling points along the water flow
allowed the spread of the addition through the reactor to be followed (Kaiser
et al., 2000). Modelling of the experimental data showed that the reactor was
best described by a series of four mixed reactors followed by a plug-flow
reactor with considerable back flow. The model was confirmed by the
comparison of modelled and measured ozone profiles and atrazine
concentrations.

     Modelled inactivation of microorganisms showed a remarkable difference
between a single plug-flow model and the model derived from the experimental
measurements. According to the model, the ozonation should reduce vegetative
bacteria and viruses by more than 6 logs, spores of Bacillus subtilis will be
inactivated by 1.5 logs, whereas the inactivation of Cryptosporidium is less than
1 log.


5.2.3.3   UV disinfection

      UV action results from absorption by nucleic acids (DNA and RNA),
leading to the dimerisation of pyrimidine bases, and all organisms are
susceptible to UV light. Exposure to UV results in reduced viability of the
treated cells. However, most bacteria have evolved different repair systems to
cope efficiently with UV damage to their genetic material, for example, thymine
dimers can be repaired both in the presence (‘photoreactivation’) or absence of
light (‘dark repair’) (Jagger, 1967). Thus, UV doses in a certain range will only
transiently reduce the ability of bacteria to form colonies without having a long-
term effect on their survival (Mechsner et al., 1991). Therefore, for the UV
disinfection of drinking water it is essential to treat each volume part with a
sufficient light dose to kill the bacteria. Usually a dose of 400 J/m2 (40 mW
s/cm2) is accepted as being sufficient for efficient treatment.


                                       170
     Three types of light source are used for UV disinfection, namely:

 •    Low-pressure mercury lamp.
 •    Medium-pressure mercury lamp.
 •    Pulsed lasers.

      The most popular so far is the low-pressure mercury lamp, which emits
light at the wavelength of 254.7 nm, almost exclusively. Due to the rather low
light intensity of such lamps, radiation times required for efficient disinfection
are substantially higher than those for the second type, the medium pressure
mercury lamp, which emits light of higher intensity and also of longer
wavelength. It is sometimes claimed that the medium-pressure lamps have a
better performance, because they may act in a dual way, damaging both DNA
and proteins, some of which might be involved in the DNA-repair process. On
the other hand, due to the much higher light intensity of medium-pressure
lamps, the required contact time is much shorter with a concomitant risk of
volume parts not being treated sufficiently. Recently, the use of pulsed UV
lasers has been suggested. It is claimed that the same extent of cell inactivation
can be achieved with this light source at less than one tenth of the dose of low-
pressure mercury lamps. Rubin et al. (1982) showed a dependence of
photoinactivation of yeast cells on the UV light intensity at the same dose. A
similar dependence was observed for the photoprotection. Therefore, at high
light intensity more dead cells were found at lower doses.

     Another factor interfering with this type of disinfection is the UV
transmission of the water. For treatment process evaluation the minimal UV
dose for water with different UV transmission characteristics must be known.
Biodosimetric determination of the UV dose under production conditions has
been proposed as the best method for determining efficiency (Sommer and
Cabaj, 1993). This procedure includes the addition of spores of Bacillus subtilis
to the water before treatment; from the difference between the colony counts
before and after treatment the UV dose in the reactor can be inferred from a
dose-response curve determined in the lab. Similar dose-response curves can be
determined for other organisms of interest (e.g. pathogens) and the reduction
potential of the treatment system can be evaluated.

     The transmission of the water should be monitored on-line with the help of
an UV detector. The determination of colony forming units of coliform bacteria
is not a satisfactory measure of UV inactivation because of the possibility of
repair mechanisms coming into play (Mechsner et al., 1991). If a microbial
indicator parameter is required, the reduction of spores should be measured
since they are easy to measure and at the same time quite resistant to UV light.


                                       171
     UV disinfection has been proven to be adequate for inactivating bacteria
and viruses. UV doses of 400 J/m2 will reduce vegetative bacteria by 4 to
8 logs. Virus inactivation is by 3 to 6 logs. Protozoa are more resistant to UV
disinfection, but newer studies showed that in neonatal mouse infection studies
with UV treated Cryptosporidium oocysts at a UV dose of 410 J/m2 a 4 log
reduction in infection occurred. Similar UV doses are required for a 4 log
reduction in spores of Bacillus subtilis.


UV disinfection case study

     In Austria, Germany and Switzerland certification requirements have been
established for the UV disinfection of drinking water, which typically require
biodosimetric determination of the disinfection efficiency under production
conditions (Snozzi et al., 1999). Spores of Bacillus subtilis are used for this
process since repair mechanisms are not important and can be neglected. The
water entering the UV plant is inoculated with the spores and their
concentration is determined before and after UV treatment. The UV dose can be
calculated from the reduction of viable spores and a dose-response curve
measured previously in the lab. Variation of the light intensity and the flow rate
allows the definition of the range of flow rate with turbulent mixing within the
reactor.

     The result of the experimental determination of the disinfection efficiency
can be represented in a graph (Figure 5.2) showing the maximal flow rate as a
function of the UV transmissions of the water, which will ensure a minimal
radiation dose of 400 J/m2. If operation remains within these limits, the
predetermined reduction of the number of viable pathogens can be ensured.

     This experimental determination of the UV disinfection potential of a
given reactor is very reproducible. Deviations between different determinations
several months apart were found to be less than 2% (Snozzi, 2000).

     Measurements of UV light intensity in the reactor serves as a control for
process performance (it is important that the measuring point should be
positioned such that changes in the UV transmission of the water will influence
the reading of the light meter).




                                       172
 Figure 5.2. Measured UV light intensity as a function of UV transmission of the
                                     water

                                                                                         (Adapted from Snozzi, 2000)

                                                                   6 0
              )   2



                                                                   5 0                                                                             1 0 5
              (W /m
              s ig n a l o f lig h t m e a s u r in g s y s te m




                                                                   4 0




                                                                                                                                                           /h ) o r
                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                           F lo w r a te (m
                                                                   3 0                                                                             6 5



                                                                   2 0



                                                                   1 0                                                                             2 5



                                                                         0
                                                                             1 0                3 0           5 0              7 0           9 0

                                                                                   tr a n s m    is s io n   o f w a te r (T     1 1 0   )

      The dashed area represents combinations of UV transmissions and flow
rates, which result in reliable disinfection. The solid curve represents the signal
of the light measuring device as a function of the UV transmission of the water.
UV transmission (T100) is given as percent transmission using a 100 mm light
pass.


5.2.3.4   Solar water disinfection

     Solar panels can be used to generate electricity to power the UV lamps
mentioned in the previous section but in low-income countries the sunlight
alone can be used to kill or inactivate many, if not all, of the pathogens found in
water. Solar water disinfection is a method of treating relatively small amounts
of water at the point of use. There are three ways in which solar radiation can be
used to eliminate pathogens. The first is through heating, the second through the
effect of the natural UV radiation and the third through a mixture of both
thermal and UV effects. None of these methods is yet widely used but
laboratory experiments and field programmes show that some systems have
good potential to produce potable water. Solar disinfection is included in the


                                                                                                             173
technologies reviewed by WHO for household water treatment and storage
(Sobsey, 2002).

      Thermal heating from the sun can be via solar cookers (which concentrate
the rays of the sun with reflectors) or from simply exposing black-painted
containers to the sun. In many systems temperatures can reliably reach over
55ºC killing many pathogens. With the cookers and some of the other systems
the temperature of the water can easily exceed 65ºC, a pasteurisation
temperature capable of inactivating nearly all enteric pathogens. Achievement
of specific temperatures can be monitored using simple low-cost re-usable water
pasteurisation indicators, based on the visible melting of wax in a clear plastic
tube.

     The use of heating and UV radiation to simultaneously disinfect water is
used by a number of different solar treatment systems. The widest known is the
SODIS system (Figure 5.3), which is suitable for low-income countries. The
only equipment required is locally available bottles to contain the water (which
needs to have a turbidity <30 NTU). This technique is now being field tested in
various parts of the world and increasing amounts of data are becoming
available on its effectiveness. Obviously for the UV to be effective the bottle
material needs to be transparent to the useful wavelengths of the UV rays. The
promoters of SODIS suggest the use of thin PET plastic bottles rather than PVC
ones because the former material is more chemically stable. The half of the
bottle furthest from the sun should be painted with black paint to improve the
heat gain from the absorption of thermal radiation, and the bottle can be laid on
a dark roof to further increase the potential temperature rise in the water.
Shaking a partly filled bottle to aerate the water before filling it completely has
been found to give a faster pathogen kill rate (Reed, 1997). The water requires
several hours of exposure to strong sunlight to obtain the advantageous synergy
between UV dosage and temperature rise (Wegelin et al., 1994, Sommer et al.,
1997). In cloudy weather a much longer period (such as two days or more) is
required because of the lower level of UV radiation and the reduced likelihood
of the temperature of the water ever exceeding 50ºC.




                                       174
Figure 5.3. Schematic representation of solar water disinfection and the influence
         of the water temperature on the UV-inactivation of bacterial cells

                         (Printed with permission of M. Wegelin)

                                                                             Inactivation of Faecal Coliforms
S DIS                                                                        with Half-Coloured Plastic Bottle

                                                                   100000                                               60

                                                                                                                        50




                                        Faecal Coliforms [cfU/100ml]
                                                                       10000
                                                                                                         Faecal




                                                                                                                             Water Temperature [°C]
                                                                                                         Coliforms      40
                                                                        1000
                                                                                      Water                             30
                                                                                      Temperature
                                                                         100
                                                                                                                        20

                                                                             10
                                                                                                                        10
 SANDEC 8/97




                                                                              1                                         0
                                                                                  0   20   40       60       80   100
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                      UV-A Dose [J/m ]




5.3            Summary

     This chapter reviews the different treatment barriers available to ensure the
production of safe drinking water. The choice of which barriers to implement
depends on a number of considerations including the source water quality. Non-
microbial indicator parameters that can be measured on-line are most useful for
assessing process performance and such monitoring is important within the total
system approach to risk management. Treatment steps with relevant pathogen
removal or inactivation are described together with possible indicators for the
measurement of process performance.




                                                                       175
                                 REFERENCES



AWWARF (1996) Water Treatment Membrane Processes. American Water
   Works Association, Lyonnaise des Eaux, and Water Research
   Commission of South Africa. McGraw-Hill, Inc., New York.

Amirtharajah, A. and Wetstein, D.P. (1980) Initial degradation of effluent
     quality during filtration. Journal of the American Water Works
     Association 78, 66-73.

Bellamy, W.D., Hendricks, D.W. and Logsdon, G.S. (1985) Slow sand
      filtration: influences of selected process variables. Journal of the
      American Water Works Association 77, 62-66.

Gale, P., Van-Dijk, P.A.H. and Stanfield, G. (1997) Drinking water treatment
      increases microorganism clustering: The implications for microbiological
      risk assessment. Journal of Water Supply: Research and Technology -
      Aqua 46,117-126.

Hall, T. (1998) A Guide to Water Treatment Practices. WRc publication
       No 854.

Hoff, J.C. and Geldreich, E.E. (1981) Comparison of the biocidal efficiency of
      alternative disinfectants. Journal of the American Water Works
      Association 73, 40-44.

Hunt, N.K. and Mariñas, B.J. (1999) Inactivation of Escherichia coli with
      ozone: chemical and inactivation kinetics. Water Research 33, 2633-
      2641.

IWSA (1998) Proceedings of IWSA International Conference. Drinking water
    distribution with or without disinfectant residual. Water Supply 16 (3/4).

Jacangelo, J.G., Adham, S.S. and Laîné, J.-M. (1995) Mechanism of
      Cryptosporidium, Giardia, and MS2 virus removal by MF and UF.
      Journal of the American Water Works Association 87, 107-121.



                                       176
Jagger, J.H. (1967) Introduction to Research in UV Photobiology.
      Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, NJ, United States.

Kaiser, H.P., Von Gunten, U. and Elovitz, M. (2000) Die Bewertung von
      Ozonreaktoren. Gas, Wasser, Abwasser 80, 50-61.

LeChevallier, M.W. and Au, K.K. (2002) Water treatment for microbial control:
     A review document. World Health Organization.

Mechsner, K., Fleischmann, T., Mason, C.A. and Hamer, G. (1991)
     UV disinfection: Short term inactivation and revival. Water Science and
     Technology 24, 339-342.

Reed, R.H. (1997) Solar inactivation of faecal bacteria in water: the critical role
      of oxygen. Letters in Applied Microbiology 24, 276-280.

Rubin, L.B., Burchuladze, T.G. and Fraikin, G.Y. (1982) Two-photon
     inactivation, photoreactivation and photoprotection in yeast cells
     irradiated by 266 nm-laser radiation. Photochemistry and
     Photobiology 35, 789-791.

Snozzi, M., Haas, R., Leuker, G., Kolch, A. and Bergman, R. (1999) Prüfung
     und Zertifizierung von UV-Anlagen. Gas, Wasser, Abwasser 79,
     380-385.

Snozzi, M. (2000) New concepts and methods for the evaluation of the
     microbial quality of drinking water. Mitt. Lebensm. Hyg. 91, 44-52.

Sobsey, M.D. (1989) Inactivation of health-related microorganisms in water by
     disinfection processes. Water Science and Technology 21(3),179-195.

Sobsey, M.D. (2002) Household water treatment and storage as appropriate
     technology for the developing world. World Health Organization

Sommer, R. and Cabaj, A. (1993) Evaluation of the efficiency of a UV plant for
    drinking water disinfection. Water Science and Technology 27, 357–362.

Sommer, B., Mariño, A., Solarte, Y., Salas, M.L., Dierolf, C., Valiente, C.,
    Mora, D., Rechsteiner, R., Stters, P., Wirojanagud, W., Ajarmeh, H., Al-
    Hassan, A. and Wegelin, M. (1997) SODIS – an emerging water
    treatment process. Journal of Water Supply: Research and Technology –
    Aqua 46(3), 127-137.



                                       177
Taylor, J.S. and Wiesner, M. (1999) Membranes. In: Water Quality and
      Treatment. R.D. Letterman (Ed.) McGraw Hill, Inc., New York.
      p. 11.1-11.71.

USEPA (1989) Guidance Manual for Compliance with the Filtration and
    Disinfection Requirements for Public Water Systems Using Surface
    Water Sources, US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, D.C.

USEPA (1999) Guidance Manual Alternative Disinfectants and Oxidants. EPA
    815-R-99-014. US Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, D.C.

Wegelin, M., Canonica, S., Mechsner, K., Pesaro, F. and Metzler, A. (1994)
     Solar water disinfection: Scope of the process and analysis of radiation
     experiments. Journal of Water Supply: Research and Technology - Aqua
     43(3), 154-169.

White, G.C. (1999) Handbook of Chlorination and Alternative Disinfectants.
      John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York.




                                     178
                                   Chapter 6

      MONITORING THE QUALITY OF DRINKING WATER DURING
                 STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION



            W. Robertson, G. Stanfield, G. Howard and J. Bartram




6.1       Introduction

     Following abstraction and treatment water becomes a vulnerable and
perishable product. It is vulnerable in that the integrity of systems used for the
storage and distribution of water can be damaged and contamination through
ingress can occur. It is perishable in that its microbial quality can deteriorate
due to the bacteria remaining after treatment growing on the residual nutrient in
the water. Water can therefore be regarded as having a finite life.

     The rate at which quality deteriorates can be controlled by adding a
preservative (disinfectant residual), or by the use of advanced treatment to
remove as much biodegradable organic carbon as possible from the water.
However, these measures will be to no avail, if the distribution or storage-
systems are contaminated or permit ingress. To get the maximum degree of
protection the product (water) and the packaging (tanks and pipes) must be
clean and intact.

     The importance of quality changes in distribution is based upon evidence
concerning the frequency and extent of known quality changes and their impact
upon human health. Thus, for example, a significant proportion of recognised
piped drinking water-related disease outbreaks are related to quality
deterioration in distribution (Ainsworth, 2002; Craun and Calderon, 2001).
However, most water supply world-wide is unreliable because of, for example,
intermittence and so household management is common. This may involve only
plumbed in household storage tanks or alternatives, which involve extensive



                                       179
manual handling. Because the contamination that arises is local in character it is
unlikely to give rise to detectable outbreaks of disease but significant evidence
exists that quality changes in such circumstances may be extreme and respond
to the extent of handling (Quick et al., 1999).


6.2      Piped distribution systems

      Piped distribution systems for drinking water are as important to the
quality and safety of drinking water as the treatment itself. Water entering the
distribution system must be microbiologically safe and ideally should be
biologically stable. The distribution system itself must provide a secure barrier
to post-treatment contamination as the water is transported to the user. Residual
disinfection will provide partial protection against recontamination, but may
also act to mask the presence of such contamination. On a global scale,
however, mishandling within the home is likely to be the most significant
source of fouling. This section describes the sources of contamination
progressing from treated water leaving the treatment plant, to deterioration of
water quality during storage and distribution. Non-piped systems are dealt with
in a separate section.


6.2.1    Inadequately treated water entering the distribution system

     Sporadic occurrences of source water of high turbidity that overwhelm the
treatment train, or microorganism breakthrough for example resulting from sub-
optimal filtration following filter backwashing, can introduce enteric pathogens
into the distribution system. These may be in sufficient numbers to cause
detectable cases of gastrointestinal illness in the population served (MacKenzie
et al., 1994). It should be recalled that the frequency of such events in
developed and developing countries is likely to be far greater than that implied
by the number of outbreaks presently detected (see Chapter 7). Such
occurrences are often rainfall driven and may be inter-related. For
example exceptionally high pathogen loadings may arise from surface runoff
following rainfall at the same time that overall filter efficiency decreases and
the need for backwashing increases because of the concurrent high turbidity
loadings (see Chapters 4 and 5).




                                       180
6.2.2      Integrity of the distribution system

     Disease outbreaks have been traced to cross connections in spite of the fact
that water leaving the plant was deemed to be safe. In general, there are four
types of cross connections:

 •      Infiltration. In this situation contaminated sub-surface water is drawn
        into the distribution system. In order for this to happen three conditions
        must be in place. First, contaminated water must be present in the sub-
        surface material surrounding the distribution system, possibly from a
        leaking sanitary, storm or combined sewer. Secondly, there must be an
        adjacent low-pressure zone within the system. These zones can arise
        through high water usage resulting from fire fighting or other peak
        demands, decreased flow arising from restrictions in the system, pump
        failures or intermittent operation of the treatment plant. More recent
        evidence points to the role of pressure surges, in otherwise properly
        operated systems, in creating transient low pressure that may lead to the
        ingress of contaminants (LeChevallier, 1999). Thirdly, there must be a
        route for contaminated water to enter the system. This can occur through
        pinholes caused by corrosion, cracks or outright breaks or leaking joints in
        the wall of the mains. If these three situations occur simultaneously then it
        is likely that contaminated water will enter the distribution system.
        Leakage rates are typically high, with even well operated systems
        experiencing rates of 10 – 20% (LeChevallier, 1999; WHO and UNICEF,
        2000). This is likely to be associated with a relatively large number of
        points of leakage and therefore present an increased risk of intrusion of
        pathogenic organisms.
 •      Back siphonage. In this situation faecally contaminated surface water is
        drawn into the distribution system or storage reservoir through a back
        flow mechanism. In order for this to take place two conditions must occur
        simultaneously. Firstly, there must be a reduction in line pressure as
        described above. Secondly, there must be a physical link between
        contaminated water and the storage and distribution system. Open taps
        connected to hoses that are submerged in pools of water may provide this
        link. Back flow preventers are available to stop such occurrences.
        Plumbing codes should require air gaps between taps and the brim of
        receptacles. The general conclusion stresses the importance of good
        domestic plumbing practice.
 •      Open drinking water storage reservoirs. Microbial contamination can
        also be introduced into the distribution system through open treated-water
        storage reservoirs (Geldreich, 1996). For example, waterborne outbreaks



                                         181
     have occurred in communities where birds contaminated the water either
     because the reservoir was uncovered or because they gained access to the
     reservoir through unscreened roof vents. Uncovered reservoirs can also
     permit the growth of toxin-forming cyanobacteria.
 •   Line construction and repair. When existing mains are repaired or
     replaced or when new water mains are installed strict protocols involving
     disinfection and flushing must be followed to prevent the introduction of
     contaminated soil or debris into the system (e.g. AWWA, 1986). These
     protocols generally cover six areas of concern:
             1. Protection of pipe sections at the site.

             2. Restriction on the types of joint sealing materials used.

             3. Preliminary flushing of pipe sections.

             4. Disinfection of pipe sections.

             5. Final flushing of pipe sections.

             6. Bacteriological testing to confirm disinfection.

     If these procedures are not adhered to pathogens may gain access to the
system. Construction materials, such as wood embedded in pipe sections, have
also been identified as a source of microbial contamination and provide an
adequate supply of nutrients to support bacterial re-growth (Martin et al., 1982).

      In each scenario, if the contaminated water contains enteric pathogens then
it is likely that consumers will be exposed to them. Even where disinfectant
residuals are employed to limit microbial occurrence it may be inadequate to
overcome the contamination or may be ineffective against some or all of the
pathogen types introduced. As a result, pathogens may occur in concentrations
that could lead to infection and illness. In many developing countries drinking
water is supplied intermittently either as a cost-saving measure or because of
water shortages. Under such conditions the resulting low water pressure will
allow the ingress of contaminated water into the system through breaks, cracks,
joints and pinholes in the walls of the system.

     In the context of monitoring it should be noted that the use of residual
disinfectants to control such problems may lead to an inaccurate estimation of
their occurrence. This is because the microbial indicator parameters most
frequently used for monitoring are among the most sensitive of the organisms of
interest, leading to a potential situation where the indicator parameter is absent


                                       182
but pathogens may be present. Thus, neither the occurrence nor the severity of
contamination will be properly identified.


6.2.3    Microbial re-growth in the distribution system

     Even though treated drinking water may be free of faecal indicator
organisms and detectable enteric pathogens and therefore present a tolerable
level of risk of enteric illness, drinking water entering the distribution system
may contain free-living amoebae and environmental strains of various bacterial
species, often referred to as heterotrophic bacteria. Under favourable conditions
amoebae and heterotrophs will colonise a distribution system and form biofilms.

      Many environmental strains of coliform bacteria such as Citrobacter,
Enterobacter and Klebsiella may also colonise distribution systems (Martin et
al., 1982). However, it is generally agreed that water temperatures and nutrient
concentrations are not elevated enough to support the growth of E. coli (or
enteric pathogenic bacteria) in biofilms (Geldreich and LeChevallier, 1999).
Thus the presence of E. coli should be considered as evidence of recent faecal
contamination of drinking water.

     Many species of bacteria and free-living amoebae can occur in biofilms
within distribution systems including certain opportunistic pathogens. There is
inadequate evidence at present to implicate the occurrence of these
microorganisms from biofilms (excepting for example, Legionella or
Mycobacterium) with adverse health effects in humans with the possible
exception of immuno-compromised population groups (reviewed by Geldreich,
1996).


6.3      Non-piped distribution systems

     Most of the population of the globe obtain their water through non-piped
systems and of the remainder the majority are supplied through systems that
require some form of storage and/or handling before use, thereby increasing the
possibility of contamination. Even where a reliable piped supply is the norm,
occasional interruptions occur (e.g. extreme weather events that cause major
line breaks and force adoption of household handling). From a public health
viewpoint it is therefore essential to respond to contamination that occurs
through the chain of supply up to the point of use and to consider all forms of
water supply used by the population.




                                      183
     Point sources of water such as tubewells, dug wells and protected springs
represent a very significant proportion of the ’improved’ water supplies provided
to communities in developing countries (WHO and UNICEF, 2000). Such
supplies are very common in rural areas and may also represent a very
significant proportion of the water supplies available and used for domestic
purposes (including drinking) by low-income urban populations (WHO and
UNICEF, 2000; Howard et al., 1999; Ahmed and Hossain, 1997). The quality
of such sources is often very variable and they frequently show gross faecal
contamination, particularly during wet seasons (Wright, 1986; Barrett et al.,
2000). The public health consequences of consumption of contaminated water
from point sources can be severe both in relation to endemic and epidemic
disease (Pedley and Howard, 1997). The control of the quality of drinking water
from such sources is important in reducing public health risks, but requires
greater emphasis on support to community management in order to improve
operation and maintenance, and also significant user education.

     As point water sources are often found in areas that also rely on on-site
sanitation, sub-surface leaching is frequently identified as being a principal
source of contamination (Melian et al., 1999; Rahman, 1996). However, there is
increasing evidence that deterioration in sanitary completion measures and
preferential flow paths are more important in causing microbial contamination
(Howard et al., 2001a; Gelinas et al., 1996; Rojas et al., 1995). Different
technologies have different vulnerability to contamination depending, largely,
on the depth of abstraction (ARGOSS, 2001).

     Many people world-wide rely on water supplied by tankers or other forms
of vendor supplies (Whittington et al., 1991). The water in such supplies may
come from hydrants connected to utility supplies or may be drawn from
alternative sources. In many cases, the consumer will not be aware of the source
of the water and there may be significant concerns about the quality of water
(Lloyd et al., 1991). Where the water is supplied from hydrants via utility piped
water supplies, basic good hygiene practices, such as regular cleaning and
disinfection of the tank and sanitary storage of the connecting hoses is usually
adequate to maintain quality. Studies in Ghana, showed that the quality of water
in tanker trucks collecting water from utility hydrants was the same as the piped
water in Kumasi and only marginally less good in the capital Accra (Jabulo,
pers. comm). In the Ghana study and also studies in Uganda (Howard and
Luyima, 2000), however, it has been shown that the quality of water supplied
by other vendors, such as those selling from jerry cans or small fixed tanks, is
much worse and represents highly degraded water quality.




                                      184
      In non-piped systems drinking water is typically either carried to the home
or is transported by truck or cart. The contamination of the water, usually as a
result of poor hygiene is common. Source contamination can then be augmented
at each point of handling through collection and transport (VanDerslice and
Briscoe, 1993). However, because such contamination is by definition local in
nature, it is unlikely to lead to large-scale single source outbreaks and therefore
unlikely to be detected or reasonably estimated.

      Poor hygiene in the home is another, potentially significant source of
drinking water contamination. In many cases, contamination significantly
increases from source to household (WHO, 1997). This is of particular concern
in communities without reliable piped water to within dwellings which,
therefore, rely upon water storage containers. Evidence is accumulating for both
the impact of such contamination on human health and for the effectiveness of
interventions at this level in protecting and improving human health (Semenza
et al., 1998). Such interventions include the use of household water disinfection
technologies, including chlorination and solar disinfection (see Chapter 5;
Sobsey, 2002). They also include hygiene education interventions geared to the
maintenance of water quality during transport and storage. Such interventions
may include the testing of water and participatory approaches to health
education, which, have proven successful in both rural and urban areas (Breslin,
2000).

     The selection of whether water treatment or hygiene education
interventions are most appropriate depends in part on the quality of the source
water. If it is good, then greater effort may be placed on promoting safe
handling, whereas poor source water quality greater effort may be placed on
household treatment. Where household disinfection is promoted, it is essential
that water quality programmes provide educational information on disinfecting
drinking water in the home and maintaining the quality and safety of the water
following disinfection. There is considerable evidence to suggest that this
approach is effective at reducing contamination and the spread of enteric illness
(Sobsey, 2002; Forget and Sanchez-Bain, 1999; Quick et al., 1999; Reiff et al.,
1996).


6.4      Approaches to sampling in piped distribution systems

     Strategies for monitoring the microbiological quality of water in supply
must be designed to allow the best possible chance of detecting reductions in
microbial quality (Ainsworth et al., 2002). It is vital, therefore, to ensure that
the samples taken are representative of the quality in the distribution network.



                                       185
In formulating a strategy the factors outlined in the following subsections need
to be considered (ISO, 1991).


6.4.1    Choice of indicator parameter

      Traditionally, microbial indicators of faecal pollution such as total
coliforms and E. coli have been the determinants used. Most national and
international microbial standards for water in supply are expressed in terms of
these organisms. Measurement of the numbers of heterotrophic bacteria provide
further valuable, but often under-utilised, additional information. Secondary
microbial parameters, for example, enterococci and clostridia, being more
resistant to disinfection, may also be used to try and gain better insight into the
source of the contamination or where particular sources of contamination are
suspected or known to cause problems. These secondary parameters are most
often used, therefore, as part of investigations where a failure of quality, in
terms of the detection of coliform bacteria, has been detected. The practice of
application of a residual disinfectant such as chlorine has a significant impact
upon the adequacy of alternative indicators as outlined above. Since the most
common microbial indicators of faecal pollution (E. coli or thermotolerant
coliforms and total coliforms) are very sensitive to chlorine their detection
implies the likelihood of either recent or substantial faecal contamination with
attendant health risks. Nevertheless, because coliform bacteria are so sensitive
to chlorine their absence provides no guarantee that pathogens such as enteric
protozoa and viruses, which are more resistant to chlorine, are also absent.

      In any faecal contamination event microorganisms, whether introduced by
inadequate treatment or post-treatment contamination, are not distributed evenly
throughout the distribution system but are typically clumped (Gale, 1996a). In
these situations the probability of detecting faecal indicator bacteria in the
relatively few samples collected from the distribution system during routine
sampling is substantially reduced. Hence quantitative measurements of
contamination, such as membrane filtration (MF) or most probable number
(MPN) methods, may provide a poor estimate of the overall density of indicator
bacteria. Frequency-of-occurrence monitoring, based on the Presence/Absence
(P/A) test, can provide a better estimate of water quality in general (Pipes and
Christian, 1984; Clark, 1980). In this method the frequency of positive samples
detected during routine sampling during a reporting period is compared with
acceptable frequencies of positive samples specified in the applicable water
quality standards. Where such standards are based upon E. coli or
thermotolerant coliforms, their confirmed presence usually leads to an
immediate boil water advisory and corrective actions. Standards based upon the
presence of total coliforms specify an acceptable frequency of positive samples


                                       186
(for example 5%) before resampling and possible corrective actions are
required. Comparative studies of the P/A and MF methods demonstrate that the
P/A method can maximise the detection of faecal indicator bacteria (Clark,
1990; Geldreich, 1996). It also allows more samples to be analysed within a
reporting period because the test is simpler, faster and less expensive than the
quantitative methods noted above (see Chapter 2.2.9). Commercial P/A kits for
faecal indicator bacteria are available.

     More conservative microbial parameters (i.e. parameters of quality
deterioration that may be detected before actual faecal contamination occurs)
are logically preferred but most present practical/logistical problems. The most
frequently used alternative for distribution systems is presently the
heterotrophic plate count. Whilst taxonomically imprecise this is relatively
widely available and applicable. Its value is principally associated with changes
and trends in counts retrieved from a given system rather than comparison with
numeric reference values and it therefore requires relatively dense sampling
networks (in time and space) to provide useful information. Measuring the
numbers of heterotrophic bacteria present in a supply can be a useful indicator
of changes such as increased re-growth potential, increased biofilm activity,
extended retention times or stagnation and a breakdown of integrity of the
system. Following trends in the numbers of heterotrophs may therefore be
useful in prompting, for example, a programme of mains flushing or cleaning.

     Non-microbial parameters may also be suitable for this purpose and also
require comparison on changes and trends and therefore relatively dense
sampling networks. The most frequently used examples include
conductivity/total dissolved solids, turbidity and chlorine residual (where
chlorine is applied). Where chlorine residuals are used, measurement of this
residual can often be a more rapid indication of problems than microbial
parameters. A sudden disappearance of an otherwise stable residual can indicate
ingress of contamination with a high organic loading. Alternatively, difficulties
in maintaining residuals at points in a distribution system or a gradual
disappearance of residual may indicate that the water or pipe work has a high
oxidant demand due to re-growth of bacteria in the water or biofilm growth.

      Routine monitoring of distributed water for particular groups of bacteria or
specific pathogens is rarely considered worthwhile or necessary. However, in
the Netherlands guidelines for the numbers of aeromonads in final waters and in
distribution have been issued to act as an indication that better maintenance of
sand filters or that better removal of methane from anaerobic groundwater
sources is required. In this context aeromonads are acting as a sensitive
indicator of the potential for re-growth to occur within the network (see
Chapter 2.2.8).


                                       187
6.4.2    Location of sampling points

     The two principal considerations in the location of sampling points are
whether fixed or variable locations (or a mixture of these) are to be employed,
and whether sampling is to occur from normal access points (such as consumer
taps), from dedicated but otherwise normal locations or from structures
dedicated exclusively for this purpose. The purpose of monitoring and
especially whether in response to statutory requirements or for public health
investigatory purposes will have a significant impact on the choices made.

      Sampling locations should be chosen to provide a means of characterising
water quality in all parts of the system. For this reason a supply system may be
divided into a series of zones on the basis of geographical area, the size of the
population served or specific areas of the pipe network. Sampling points are
then identified within each zone to try and ensure that representative samples
are taken. Sampling points will be chosen for two reasons. One will be to satisfy
statutory responsibilities and the other for strategic or operational purposes. In
the latter, a water supplier may for example be trying to obtain more
information about an area that has, in the past, yielded frequent coliform failures
or elevated counts of heterotrophs.

     Fixed sampling points are frequently used, and may be chosen because of
ease of access. Often these points are located within public buildings, or in the
premises of public services, such as fire-stations. The use of fixed sampling
points alone can be regarded as unsatisfactory, since they may not give a
representative view of what is happening in all parts of the distribution system
or zones. To overcome this, additional samples may be taken from other outlets
chosen at random and these usually include the mains tap in the houses of
consumers.

     The use of fixed or random sampling points is a topic of much continuing
debate. Geldreich (1996) reported that in a survey of 1 796 water supply utilities
in the USA, about one third used only fixed sampling points, with 50% using a
combination of random and fixed points. He recommended that some sampling
locations be varied, so that all sections of the network are monitored over time.
Burlingame and O’Donnell (1993) argue that the use of random taps increases
the detection of water contaminated within households (which is outside the
regulatory framework), since the water supplier has no control over consumers’
premises. Similarly Dufresne et al. (1997) have demonstrated that the number
of positives and the number of samples collected can be reduced by selecting
sampling points that were protected and well maintained. Similarly, a task
group, appointed by United Kingdom Water Industry (1995), concluded that
there were advantages in adopting a wholly fixed-point system. These included


                                       188
the control and maintenance of the taps, greater compatibility of data and
reduced cost. Other studies have indicated that the type of tap, particularly
mixer taps, and material of construction may also influence water quality. These
factors need to be considered in the design of a monitoring strategy. If random
taps are to be used, it may be that identification of premises with suitable taps
may be a more important consideration than achieving true randomness (Anon,
1994).

      For statutory purposes, the location and number of sampling points may be
stipulated within the appropriate regulations of that country. For example, the
UK Water Supply Regulations stipulate that at least 50% of distribution samples
must be taken from random locations (HMSO, 1989). For strategic monitoring,
locations will be selected to gain the best practicable information about the area
of the system being investigated. For this purpose, depending on the laboratory
resources available, sampling locations may be more numerous than required to
satisfy the regulations. Regardless of the reason for the monitoring it will have
the common objective of providing sufficient information to allow the water
quality in all service areas to be characterised.


6.4.3    Frequency of sampling

     There is no absolute rationale for the frequency of sampling and adopted
frequencies reflect the need to balance the benefits of better information arising
from greater frequency with increasing costs (and decreasing returns) as overall
frequency increases. The guidelines and regulations of individual countries
generally prescribe the minimum sampling frequency to be achieved to meet
statutory requirements. These sampling frequencies are usually based on the
population served by the network/zone or, less frequently, on the volume of
water supplied. For example in France, a minimum of 24 samples each year
must be taken from distribution systems serving 10 000 – 20 000 inhabitants. In
the Netherlands the frequency is similar, while the UK Regulations prescribe a
more intensive programme of 48 samples per annum. In Germany the
prescribed frequency is similar to that set for treatment works at one sample per
15 000 cubic metres of water supplied.

     Although jurisdictions prescribe minimum sampling frequencies it is often
necessary to collect additional samples to improve the overall picture of water
quality in the distribution system. Supplementary samples should be collected at
locations which, from historical data, are known to experience problems.
Sampling frequency should also be increased following remedial actions, for
example in response to boil water orders, or following interruptions in supply.
In most cases a failure in terms of E. coli or thermotolerant coliform detection


                                       189
will initiate re-sampling, which may be followed by intensive investigations to
identify the source and extent of the contamination. While re-sampling is
commonly required the rationale underlying this (as a procedure prior to further
investigation and action) is unclear. Given the known temporal and spatial
variability of microbial water quality it is logical that re-sampling would often
fail to detect continued contamination without indicating that the cause of the
original contamination had been limited or controlled.

      Some water suppliers carry out much more sampling within the
distribution network than required to satisfy the regulations. Strategic
monitoring programmes will be carried out to investigate specific problems
such as high incidence of taste and odour events or the need for mains
replacement or renovation. Each distribution system will have its own unique
monitoring needs and the monitoring programme should be designed to address
these using the available analytical resources. The impact of the timing of
sampling should be recalled in interpreting results. Thus, for example, most
sampling will be undertaken within the normal working week and may not
detect changes arising from abnormal patterns of demand (such as football cup
finals).


6.4.4     Volume of sample

      The volume of sample collected must be sufficient to allow analysis at the
limits of detection stipulated in regulations. For coliform bacteria this is 100 ml.
Heterotrophic plate counts are usually expressed on a per ml basis. Given that
samples may have to be re-analysed, the volume of sample will therefore
generally be between 250 and 500 ml. In the Netherlands, coliform and E. coli
counts are expressed per 250 ml and so sample volumes will be greater to
satisfy these requirements.

     Demonstrating the absence of indicator microorganisms in 100 ml
volumes, although adequate for statutory requirements, does not provide
information about how close to compliance water quality is. For this reason
some water suppliers routinely, or as part of special investigative studies, may
collect and analyse sample volumes of between 1 and 10 litres. Volumes of this
magnitude can be analysed by small modifications to existing analytical
methods or by multiple analyses of 100 ml to 1 l volumes.

     If microorganisms were distributed randomly in distribution systems, the
use of the Poisson distribution would be appropriate in calculating the
confidence limits for occurrence of indicator bacteria (Haas and Heller, 1986).
However, it has been suggested by several workers (e.g. Pipes et al., 1977;


                                        190
Gale, 1996a) that the distribution of bacteria tends not to fit this pattern, instead
they occur in clusters within a bulk supply. Gale (1996b) analysed the statistical
distribution of confirmed coliform densities and total heterotrophic bacteria
densities, using monitoring data from eight UK water companies. It was found
that the log value of the bacterial density varied in an approximate linear
fashion when plotted against the percentage of the data that was less than this
value: this is known as a log-normal distribution. Extrapolation of the log-
normal distribution of confirmed coliforms (1-9% of all samples) implied that
where 100 ml samples were recorded as 0/100 ml, the actual concentration may
have been as low as < 1/107 litres or as high as 1/litre. Similar clustering of a
small proportion of high counts could be caused by sporadic contamination of
the distribution system through, say, floc carryover and filter breakthrough
(Gale, 1996b). Gale (1996b) concludes that ideally a model of the risk of
exposure to pathogens would take account of the density of the organism in raw
water, the removal efficiency by subsequent treatment processes, the variation
in tendency to cluster and an estimate of water consumption.

     In addition to providing some indication as to the true numbers of
microbial indicators of faecal pollution in distribution, analysis of large volume
samples increase the chance of detecting clusters or pulses of bacterial
contamination particularly if taken over a period of time such as 30-60 minutes.
An alternative to large volume grab samples is the collection of a composite
sample. This is composed of a series of small volume samples collected at time
intervals that are bulked together to form one large sample. Depending on
available analytical resources analysis of individual samples would provide an
indication of the bacterial distribution. It can be difficult to arrange for large
volume or composite samples to be collected at randomly selected locations
such as consumers’ taps, and it is best restricted to fixed sampling points.


6.4.5     Sample collection

     Sampling for microbiological analyses requires care, with observation of
the general principles of aseptic technique. All equipment used for sampling
should be thoroughly cleaned and preferably sterilised before use. The sample
containers should be sterile with wide mouths that are shielded from
contamination. They should contain sufficient sterile reagent to neutralise any
residual disinfectant in the water and samplers should be trained to ensure that
thorough mixing occurs immediately after sampling.

    For some purposes and especially in relation to the performance of the
supply agency the sampling procedure used has to ensure that water from the
main is collected and not the stagnant water in the supply pipe. For other


                                        191
purposes (especially in relation to public health investigation) interest may
focus on the water that has gone through typical processes of deterioration, as
this is what consumers will be exposed to. Collecting mains water is usually
achieved by running water to waste for a period of two-three minutes (Anon,
1994; APHA, AWWA, WEF, 1998), but given the differing lengths of service
pipes this may not always be adequate. Other methods, such as running to waste
until a constant temperature is reached (Anon, 1994), particle counts have
stabilised (Burlingame and Choi, 1998) or (if appropriate) a chlorine residual is
detected would appear to be more certain, but rather time consuming. After
reviewing the results of studies on flushing Prévost et al. (1997) suggest a
period of five-ten minutes may be necessary. However, the consumers whose
taps are being used do not like these methods because they are perceived as
being wasteful (or costly, if on a metered supply). The importance of this step in
the sampling procedure cannot be over emphasised. Since water in the service
pipe may reach relatively high temperatures, heterotrophs may grow to higher
densities than in the water main (Geldreich, 1996). In addition, the high surface
area to volume ratio of service pipes encourages the decay of chlorine residuals,
again allowing a greater potential for bacterial growth. Without an adequate
period of flushing a representative sample will not be obtained. However, not all
workers agree with this. Prevost et al. (1997) demonstrated that although
numbers of bacteria increased with distance from the treatment works,
stagnation within the service pipe did not influence numbers appreciably.
Similarly Kerneis et al. (1995) found that residence time had little influence on
the heterotrophic plate count.

     The introduction of new designs of taps (mixer), the use of plastics in
construction and the provision of inserts as anti-splash devices has caused much
discussion on the need for, and the best method of, sterilising taps prior to
sampling. The traditional method of sterilisation is to heat the outside of the tap,
in the direction of spout to base. Although this method is satisfactory where
metal taps are used at premises controlled by the water supplier, they may be
considered too hazardous at consumers premises. For sampling at these
locations heat has almost completely been replaced by chemical methods of
disinfection. Sodium hypochlorite is the most widely recommended chemical
disinfectant. It is effective against a wide range of bacteria, including spores,
and viruses. Only fresh solutions should be used as the concentration of chlorine
decays with time. The consensus opinion on concentration is to use a 10%
solution of household sodium hypochlorite for swabbing, or a 1% solution
where a spray is used. It is essential that tap surfaces are clean before the use of
a chlorine-based disinfectant since they react readily with all types of organic
matter. In some cases isopropanol is used for tap disinfection as it is effective
against some of the more resistant bacteria, such as mycobacteria, it is water
miscible and evaporates at room temperature, leaving no residue. No particular


                                        192
precautions other than simple tap flushing, have to be taken to ensure that the
disinfectant does not contaminate the sample. In common with most chemical
disinfectants, it precipitates proteins that may then form a protective layer for
bacteria. The tap body and spout must therefore be clean before application.
Isopropanol has the disadvantages that prolonged contact may result in skin
irritation, swelling of rubber and hardening of some plastics. Burlingame and
Choi (1998) suggest that the concentration used should be at least 70%, but a
slightly lower concentration 60-70% is said by Gardner and Peel (1986) to be
more effective.


6.5      Approaches to sampling in non-piped systems

      In many areas where communities rely on non-piped supplies, resources to
carry out routine bacteriological monitoring are very limited. This is often
further complicated as most small water supplies are community-managed and
therefore it is difficult to ensure that the “supplier” is able undertake an
expected level of quality control monitoring and therefore there is greater
reliance on external verification. Furthermore, enforcement of action is usually
difficult as community-managed systems are often difficult to regulate directly
and this becomes impossible when water hygiene is evaluated (Howard et al.,
2001a). It is possible, however, to undertake programmes as described below.
Given that monitoring microbial quality may be expensive, when considering
the development of sampling programmes for point sources, it is essential that
the monitoring programme is designed to meet a clearly defined management
need and that the data derived will result in useful information (Bartram, 1999;
Adriaanse, 1997; Ongley, 1998).

     As for all water supplies, the use of sanitary inspection is extremely
important as a means of assessing long-term risks and in analysing the causes of
contamination when this is found. Sanitary inspections are visual assessments of
the infrastructure and environment surrounding a water supply taking into
account the condition, devices, and practices in the water supply system that
pose an actual or potential danger to the health and well-being of the consumers
(WHO, 1997). The most effective way to undertake sanitary inspections is to
use a semi-quantitative standardised approach using logical questions and a
simple scoring system. There exist a number of example forms that can be used
(WHO, 1997). Sanitary inspections are complementary to water quality analysis
and there is an increase in the power of subsequent analysis when both types of
data are available.




                                      193
6.5.1    Selection of methods and indicator organisms

      For communities where point sources are commonly used, the use of on-
site testing kits is often recommended given the large distances between the
sources and laboratories and the very significant problems with sample
deterioration (Bartram and Ballance, 1996). There appears to be no significant
difference in the reliability of results obtained from such kits in comparison to
laboratory testing providing the staff using them are properly trained and
maintain an aseptic technique. Kits using MF, MPN and P/A methods are
available.

     Where bacteriological testing is undertaken using test kits, it is likely that
E. coli or thermotolerant coliforms will be the indicator parameters analysed.
However, for shallow groundwater, the use of faecal streptococci may provide
more reliable results given their greater environmental resistance and because
there is evidence that thermotolerant coliforms may multiply in nutrient
enriched environmental waters (WHO, 1996; Byappanahalli and Fujioka, 1998).
Studies in Uganda using sorbitol-fermenting bifido-bacteria, which are unique
to human faeces showed a stronger relationship with faecal streptococci than
thermotolerant coliforms (Howard et al., 2001b). Most kits for thermotolerant
coliform analysis can also be used for faecal streptococci analysis, although
they must be able to sustain 48 hour incubation times.


6.5.2    Water quality sampling approaches

     The degree to which sampling of point water sources is developed is
dependent largely on the objectives of the monitoring programme being
implemented. Very few countries have fully developed programmes of rural
water supply testing. Indeed, although such approaches do provide an overall
indication of water quality and its variation, it does not necessarily yield data
from which management decisions can be easily made.

     There are two main approaches (years-group approach and longitudinal
study sample) that can be recommended for sampling of point water sources,
which are outlined below. In addition, a brief section is included regarding
assessment-only approaches, which are not recommended. The recommended
approaches work on a slightly different basis and provide somewhat different
information. Common to both approaches, however, is that a sample of water
sources are tested during each sampling round.




                                       194
     The first stage in both approaches is to compile an inventory of all the
water sources to be included in the monitoring programme (Lloyd and Bartram,
1991). A second key element in both approaches is to ensure that testing is
timed to coincide with those times when water quality may be most threatened,
usually during the wet season. However, is should be noted that some shallow
groundwater systems show very rapid response to rainfall and this may need to
be considered when designing the sampling programme (Barrett et al., 2000).
Samples should be taken from the principal outlet – handpump, spring outlet or
bucket used to take water from a well.


6.5.2.1   Year-groups approach

     In this approach, all the water supplies are assigned to a particular “year-
group” and a rolling programme of visits developed (Bartram, 1999). All the
sources listed in each “year-group” would be visited, with the aim that all
supplies would receive repeated visits over a time frame of between two to five
years. On each visit, detailed surveys would be undertaken including sanitary
inspection, water quality analysis and household visits made. Key to this
approach is to ensure that stratified or cluster sampling approaches are adopted
to ensure that supplies in different parts of the country were included within
each 'year group'. If this is not done, then the results from particular “year
groups” may provide a distorted picture of the microbiological quality of water,
as it may be biased because of technology type, hydrogeology or pollution
loading specific to particular areas. The “year-group” approach provides the
monitoring body a greater breadth of information as it attempts to cover all
water sources. The data may also be used to identify actions required to improve
water quality, although the restricted numbers of samples at sources may mean
that it is more difficult to develop a full understanding of water quality
variation.


6.5.2.2   Longitudinal study sample

     In this approach, a representative sample of water supplies is visited on a
regular basis. It is therefore different from the above approach in that it does not
attempt to provide data on all sources within the country, but rather addresses
developing a more in-depth understanding of the variation in quality of different
types of water sources and different parts of the country. This can be used to
assess whether microbial quality and risks vary over time and provides useful
insight into how effective community operation and maintenance is and what
improvements are required both in terms of training and design. The
longitudinal study approach aim is to use the data from the sample to inform


                                        195
overall implementation and management of the quality of water by ensuring that
the most important factors in causing microbial contamination are identified and
preventative and remedial actions developed. These apply beyond the sample of
water sources included within the clusters and can form the basis of a broader
national strategy for water quality improvement.


6.5.2.3   Assessment only approaches

     In some countries, sampling of the water sources only occurs during the
source selection stage and there are often particular levels of microbial
contamination (usually defined on the basis of thermotolerant coliforms or more
rarely E.coli) above which the source should not be used. A common value used
is 50/100ml. However, such approaches have very limited use as the results of a
single test may not provide a realistic estimate of the microbial quality of the
water (particularly as this would not typically be done during worst case
situations) and the use of an arbitrary figure of 50/100ml is unlikely to be
meaningful in terms of health risk. Clearly, such approaches also fail to provide
any indication of whether the protection works undertaken have been effective
in reducing pollution and the designs used have rarely, if ever, been properly
evaluated in terms of their ability to reduce contamination as expressed through
log-reductions in bacterial densities.

     Other countries either complement or replace the testing of sources during
selection with a test on commissioning. This has the advantage that it provides a
better indication of the quality of the supply, but again may not reflect seasonal
variation in quality. Such approaches will also fail to address the greater
concerns of water quality deterioration over time in supplies where operation
and maintenance is weak.


6.5.4     Tanker trucks and vendors

     These are treated separately as vending is a commercial practice and
therefore more amenable to direct control than when water supplies are
community-managed. Where trucks collect water from water supply utility
hydrants, the routine testing of the quality of water in the trucks and at the
hydrants should form part of the routine distribution testing by the water
supplier. In the first instance an assessment should be carried out covering a
sample of filling stations and tankers, followed by a lower-intensity routine
monitoring programme when the day of sampling, selection of hydrants and
selection of trucks vary in order to ensure to avoid biased results. This can be



                                       196
linked to codes of sanitary practice both by the water supplier and the tanker
trucks (Lloyd et al., 1991).

      Where vendor supplies are not taken from utility piped supplies, routine
testing and sanitary inspection is still desirable, although the type of vending
may dictate the ease with which this is implemented. For tanker trucks, a rolling
programme of random testing can be initiated, although it may be difficult to
identify source waters. For very small vendors, it may not be possible to
undertake routine monitoring, although occasional assessments would be
worthwhile. In both cases, it is critical that the monitoring will lead to some
form of action, whether this is through working with vendors to improve
practices, regulating vending practices or banning all vending.


6.5.5    Household water

     The testing of water stored in households is important to ascertain the
quality of water actually being consumed. This is important because post-source
deterioration in quality may have occurred and therefore good quality water at
source may have become severely degraded by the time it is consumed and
remedial actions (for instance hygiene education programme) may be required.
The testing of household water is therefore an important component of an
integrated risk-based approach to water quality.

     Household samples should be taken from the drinking water storage vessel
used by the family and containers used for collecting and transporting the water.
A water chain can be tracked from source to storage with samples taken from
source, collection vessel and water storage container. This often provides useful
information regarding where and what type of interventions (educational,
technical) are most appropriate. Generally, household testing programmes
should be linked to source water testing programmes to ensure that the
monitoring team understand whether poor quality in the home results from re-
contamination or poor source water quality.

     The numbers of samples and the selection of households will depend
largely on the principal objective for the testing of household water. If the major
purpose is to simply undertake random sampling of household water (which
may be an important part of the monitoring programme whether “year group” or
longitudinal study) then a stratified random sampling approach can be adopted.
In this case, no specific intervention is being evaluated although the collection
of information about sources and the type and cleanliness of the storage
container may indicate where major problems lie.



                                       197
      This data can also be used to check on the use of feedback of surveillance
results on household water quality. For instance in Uganda, the simple process
of feedback of information and routine testing led to observable improvements
in water quality stored within the home (Howard and Luyima, 2000). When
such programmes are initiated it is important that different households are
visited in each sampling period to prevent a bias developing due to repeated
visits by surveillance staff. However, a cluster sampling approach may be
adopted by identifying sentinel communities believed to be at greater risk
because they have least access to direct connection or because they are more
affected by interruption in supply.

     In some cases there may be other specific objectives for testing water in
the home. These may include evaluating the impact of a particular health
education programme or household water storage and treatment interventions.
In this case, a study would be designed to measure the impact between an
intervention group and a control group thus allowing an evaluation of the
impact of the intervention. Alternatively, the influence of the type of source,
frequency and duration of discontinuity, or type of storage vessel on household
water quality may be assessed in a community. In this case, a cluster sampling
approach would typically be used to keep the number of households included to
a reasonable number that allows intensive investigation.


6.6      Summary

      This chapter provides a summary of possible sources of faecal
contamination in drinking water and describes recognised sampling regimes in
order to detect contamination. The small volume of samples collected during a
reporting period represents only a tiny fraction of the total quantity of water
delivered during that period. Thus, the challenge of sampling is to provide
maximum information on water quality in the distribution system using the data
from a limited number of samples. The ingress of faecal contamination into the
distribution system should trigger immediate responses and this is covered in
Chapter 7. The approaches available for sampling water quality from non-piped
systems are also covered, with indications provided for actions to improve water
quality.




                                      198
                               REFERENCES



Adriaanse, M. (1997) Tailor-made guidelines: a contradiction in terms?
      European Water Pollution Control 7(4), 11-16.

Ahmed, F. and Hossain, M.D. (1997) The status of water supply and sanitation
    access in urban slums and fringes of Bangladesh. Journal of Water
    Supply: Research and Technology – Aqua 46, 14-19.

Ainsworth, R.A. (2002) Water quality changes in piped distribution systems.
     World Health Organization.

Anon (1994) The Microbiology of Water 1994: Part 1 – Drinking water.
     Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects, No. 71. Her Majesty’s
     Stationery Office, London.

APHA, AWWA, WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
    and Wastewaters. 20th Edition. American Public Health Association,
    Washington DC.

ARGOSS (2001) Guidelines for assessing the risk to groundwater from on-site
    sanitation. BGS Commissioned Report CR/01/142, British Geological
    Survey, Wallingford, UK.

AWWA (1986) AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains. AWWA C651-
   86, Denver CO.

Barrett, M.H., Johal, K. Howard, G., Pedley, S. and Nalubega, M. (2000)
      Sources of faecal contamination in shallow groundwater in Kampala. In:
      Groundwater: Past Achievements and Future Challenges. Sililo et al.
      (Eds.). pp 691-696.

Bartram, J. (1999) Effective monitoring of small drinking water supplies. In:
      Providing Safe Drinking Water in Small Systems: Technology, Operations
      and Economics. Cotruvo, J.A., Craun, G.F. and Hearne, N. (Eds.) Lewis
      Publishers, Washington, DC. USA, pp.353-366.

Bartram, J. and Ballance, R. (1996) Water Quality Monitoring. Chapman and
      Hall, London, UK.




                                     199
Breslin, E. (2000) Protecting drinking water: water quality testing and PHAST
      in South Africa. In: Water, Sanitation and Health. Chorus, I., Ringelband,
      U., Schlag, G. and Schmoll, O. (Eds.) IWA, London, pp 89-94.

Burlingame, G.A. and O’Donnell, L. (1993) Coliform sampling at routine and
      alternate taps: problems and solutions. Proceedings of the AWWA
      Water Quality Technology Conference, Miami, FL.

Burlingame, G.A. and Choi, J.J. (1998) Philadelphia’s guidelines for obtaining
      representative samples from throughout drinking water systems.
      Proceedings of the AWWA Water Quality Technology Conference,
      November 1-4, 1998, San Diego, CA.

Byappanahalli, M.N. and Fujioka, R.S. (1998) Evidence that tropical soil can
     support the growth of Escherichia coli. Water Science and Technology
     38(12), 171-174.

Clark, J.A. (1990) The Presence-Absence test for monitoring drinking water
      quality. In: Drinking Water Microbiology. McFeters, G.A. (Ed.)
      Springer-Verlag, New York, pp 399-411.

Clark, J.A. (1980) The influence of increasing numbers of non indicator
      organisms by the membrane filtration and P-A tests. Canadian Journal of
      Microbiology 15, 827-832.

Craun, G.F. and Calderon, R.L. (2001) Waterborne disease outbreaks caused by
     distribution system deficiencies. Journal of the American Water Works
     Association 93, 64-75.

Dufresne, L., Burlingame, G., Cochrane, C., Maley, L. Shahid, S. and Toch, M.
      (1997) Eliminating ‘noise’ in distribution system coliform monitoring.
      Proceedings of the AWWA Water Quality Technology Conference,
      Denver, CO.

Forget, G. and Sanchez-Bain, W.A. (1999) Managing the ecosystem to improve
      human health: Integrated approaches to safe drinking water. International
      Journal of Occupational and Environmental Health 5(1), 38-50.

Gale, P. (1996a) Coliforms in the drinking water supply: What information do
      the 0/100-mL samples provide? Journal of Water Supply: Research and
      Technology - Aqua 45(4), 155-161.




                                      200
Gale, P. (1996b) Developments in microbiological risk assessment models for
      drinking water: A short review. Journal of Applied Bacteriology 81, 403-
      410.

Gardner, J.F. and Peel, M.M. (1986) Introduction to Sterilization and
     Disinfection. Churchill Livingstone, Melbourne.

Geldreich, E.E. (1996) Microbial Quality in Water Supply Distribution Systems.
      CRC Press Inc. Boca Raton, FL.

Geldreich, E.E. and LeChevallier, M. (1999) Microbiological quality control in
      distribution systems. In: Water Quality and Treatment: A Handbook of
      Community Water Supplies. Fifth Edition. Letterman, R.D. (Ed.)
      McGraw-Hill, New York. pp.18.1-18.49.

Gelinas, Y., Randall, H., Robidoux, L. and Schmit, J-P. (1996) Well water
      survey in two Districts of Conakry (republic of Guinea) and comparison
      with the piped city water. Water Resources 30(9), 2017-2026.

Haas, C.N. and Heller, B. (1986) Statistics of enumerating total coliforms in
      water samples by membrane filter procedures. Water Research 20(4),
      525-530.

HMSO (1989) The Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulation 1989. Statutory
    Instrument No. 1147.

Howard, G., Bartram, J.K. and Luyima, P.G. (1999) Small water supplies in urban
     areas of developing countries. In: Providing Safe Drinking Water in Small
     Systems:Technology, Operations and Economics. Cotruvo, J.A., Craun,
     G.F. and Hearne, N. (Eds.) Lewis Publishers, Washington, DC. USA.
     pp.83-93.

Howard, G. and Luyima, P.G. (2000) Report on water supply surveillance
     activities in 10 selected urban areas of Uganda. Report published for the
     Ministry of Health, Uganda and available at www.lboro.ac./watermark

Howard, G., Bartram, J., Schuab, S., Deere, D. and Waite M. (2001a)
     Regulation of microbiological quality in water cycle. In: Water Quality:
     Standards, Guidelines and Health. Assessment of risk and risk
     management for water-related infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and
     Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London, pp. 377-393.




                                      201
Howard, G., Barrett, M., Pedley, S., Johal, K. and Nalubega, M. (2001b)
     Distinguishing human and animal faecal contamination in shallow
     groundwater. Unpublished technical report for DFID, Robens, Guildford.

ISO (1991) Sampling – Part 5: Guidance on sampling drinking water and water
      used for food and beverage preparation. ISO 5667-5. International
      Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

Kerneis, A., Nakache, F., Deguin, A. and Feinberg, M. (1995) The effects of
     water residence time on the biological quality in a distribution network.
     Water Research 29(7), 1719-1727.

LeChevallier, M. (1999) The case for maintaining a disinfectant residual.
     Journal of the American Water Works Association 91(1), 86-94.

Lloyd, B. and Bartram, J. (1991) Surveillance solutions to microbiological
      problems in water quality control in developing countries. Water Science
      and Technology 24(2), 61-75.

Lloyd, B., Bartram, J., Rojas, R., Pardon, M., Wheeler, D. and Wedgewood, K.
      (1991) Surveillance and improvement of Peruvian drinking water
      supplies. University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.

MacKenzie, W.R., Hoxie, N.J., Proctor, M.E., Gradus, M.S., Blair, K.A.,
    Peterson, D.E., Kazmierczak, J.J., Addis, D.G., Fox, K.R., Rose, J.B. and
    Davis, J.P. (1994) Massive waterborne outbreak of Cryptosporidium
    infection associated with a filtered public water supply, Milwaukee,
    Wisconsin, March and April 1993. New England Journal of Medicine
    331(3), 161-167.

Martin, R.S., Gates, W.H., Tobin, R.S. et al. (1982) Factors affecting coliform
      bacteria growth in distribution systems. Journal of the American Water
      Works Association 74, 34-37.

Melian, R., Myrlian, N., Gouriev, A., Moraru, C. and Radstake, F. (1999)
     Groundwater quality and rural drinking water supplies in the Republic of
     Moldova. Hydrogeology Journal 7, 188-196.

Ongley, E. (1998) Modernisation of water quality programmes in developing
     countries: issues of relevancy and cost efficiency. Water Quality
     International September/October, 37-42.




                                      202
Pedley, S. and Howard, G. (1997) The public health implication of groundwater
      microbiology. Quarterly Journal of Engineering Geology 30(2), 179-188.

Pipes, W.O., Ward, P. and Ahn, S.H. (1977) Frequency distributions for
       coliform bacteria in water. Journal of the American Water Works
       Association 69, 664-668.

Pipes, W.O. and Christian, R.R. (1984) Estimating mean coliform densities of
       water distribution systems. Journal of the American Water Works
       Association 76, 60-64.

Prévost, M., Rompré, A., Baribeau, H., Callier, J. and Lafrance, P. (1997)
      Service lines: their effect on microbiological quality. Journal of the
      American Water Works Association 89(7), 78-91.

Quick, R.E., Venczel, L.V., Mintz, E.D., Soleto, L., Aparicio, J., Gironaz, M.,
      Hutwagner, L., Greene, K., Bopp, C., Maloney, K., Chavez, D., Sobsey,
      M. and Tauxe, R.V. (1999) Diarrhoea prevention in Bolivia through
      point-of-use water treatment and safe storage: a promising new strategy.
      Epidemiology and Infection 122, 83-90.

Rahman, A. (1996) Groundwater as a source of contamination in rapidly
    growing megacities of Asia: Case of Karachi, Pakistan. Water Science
    and Technology 34(7-8), 385-292.

Reiff, F.M., Roses, M., Venczel, L., Quick, R. and Witt, V.M. (1996) Low-cost
       safe water for the world: A practical interim solution. Journal of Public
       Health 17(4), 389-408.

Rojas, R., Howard, G. and Bartram, J. (1995) Groundwater quality and water
      supply in Lima, Peru. In: Groundwater Quality. Nash, H. and McCall,
      G.J.H. (Eds.) AGID Report No. 16. Chapman and Hall, London. pp. 159-
      167.

Semenza, J.C., Roberts, L., Henderson, A., Bogan, J. and Rubin, C.H. (1998)
     Water distribution system and diarrheal disease transmission: a case study
     in Uzbekistan. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene
     59(6), 941-946.

Sobsey, M.D. (2002) Household water treatment and storage as appropriate
     technology for the developing world. World Health Organization.




                                       203
UK Water Industry Research (1995) Microbiological growth in domestic
    pipework and fittings: Cambridge Workshop. Report DW 04/BUKWIR,
    1995.

VanDerslice, J. and Briscoe, J. (1993) All coliforms are not created equal: a
    comparison of the effects of water source and in-house water
    contamination on infantile diarrheal disease. Water Resources Research
    29(7), 1983-1995.

Whittington, D., Lauria, D.T. and Mu, X. (1991) A study of water vending and
      willingness to pay for water in Onitsha, Nigeria. World Development
      19,179-198.

WHO (1996) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Volume 2: Health and
    supporting criteria. Second Edition. World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (1997) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality. Volume 3: Surveillance
    and control of community supplies. Second Edition. World Health
    Organization, Geneva.

WHO and UNICEF (2000) Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment
    2000 Report. WHO/UNICEF, USA.

Wright, R.C. (1986) The seasonality of bacterial quality of water in a tropical
     developing country (Sierra Leone). Journal of Hygiene 96(1), 75-82.




                                       204
                                   Chapter 7

      SURVEILLANCE AND INVESTIGATION OF CONTAMINATION
            INCIDENTS AND WATERBORNE OUTBREAKS



 P.R. Hunter, Y. Andersson, C.H. Von Bonsdorff, R.M. Chalmers, E. Cifuentes,
      D. Deere, T. Endo, M. Kadar, T. Krogh, L. Newport, A. Prescott and
                                W. Robertson




7.1       Introduction

     This chapter examines the investigation of possible waterborne outbreaks
(due to drinking water) and, in particular, the role of laboratory analyses in the
investigation. Outbreaks are the most obvious manifestation of waterborne
disease, though not all such disease is associated with outbreaks. The detection
and investigation of outbreaks provides some of the best insights into the
microbial aetiology and the types of process failures that lead to waterborne
disease. As such, they provide essential information for hazard analysis and risk
assessment associated with drinking water (see Chapter 3). Because of this, it is
essential that outbreaks are adequately investigated so that the appropriate
lessons can be learned and preventative measures applied to mitigate against
future outbreaks and to improve the microbial safety of water generally.

     The World Health Organization’s (WHO) definition of a food - or
waterborne - outbreak is when two or more persons experience a similar illness
after ingestion of the same type of food or water from the same source and
when the epidemiological evidence implicates the food or the water as the
source of the illness (Schmidt, 1995). Unfortunately, in the early stages of an
outbreak it is usually far from clear whether cases are linked or related to
drinking water. This is a particular problem for common infections transmitted
through various different routes. A small number of cases associated with a
water supply may not be detectable against the general background of infection.


                                       205
Instead, existing surveillance systems only detect general changes in the
incidence of infectious disease.

     A more useful definition of a waterborne outbreak, for the purposes of
active surveillance, is when more cases than would be expected are clustered,
geographically and in time. In other words, are more cases being reported from
a particular geographical location than would be considered normal? Clearly, in
order to make this judgement, there has to be a system in place for the detection
of cases of infection and an understanding of the expected frequency of
reporting.

     An outbreak needs to be in progress to be detected by a public health
surveillance system. Preventing outbreaks occurring in the first place is the
focus of the authorities responsible for supplying drinking water. A combination
of a study of outbreaks combined with theoretical risk analysis can be used to
predict scenarios that are likely to lead to water becoming unsafe. After
examining waterborne outbreaks of illness in general, this chapter includes an
overview of the role of indicator parameters in providing early warning of
possible outbreak scenarios and the importance of having contingency plans in
place to expedite corrective action. It then goes on to examine waterborne
outbreak investigation in more detail.

   Table 7.1. Outbreaks of infectious illness linked to drinking water in the UK,
                                    1991-2000

                             (Adapted from Percival et al., 2000)

                                                                      Number of      Number
Water system         Disease
                                                                      outbreaks      of cases
Public supplies1     Cryptosporidiosis                                    24          >2955
                     Campylobacteriosis                                    1            281
                     Total                                                25          >3236
Private supplies2    Gastroenteritis of unknown cause                      2            81
                     Campylobacteriosis                                    7            162
                     Giardiasis                                            1            31
                     Cryptosporidiosis                                     3            74
                     Enterohaemorrhagic E. coli                            1            14
                     Mixed campylobacteriosis and cryptosporidiosis        1            43
                       Total                                                13          405
1. Public supplies are owned by commercial water utilities.
2. Private supplies are not owned by commercial water utilities and vary from supplies providing
water to single dwellings up to some quite large supplies.




                                             206
7.2           Waterborne outbreaks

     We have very little idea how many outbreaks of waterborne disease there
are in the world as few countries, even in Western Europe and North America,
have surveillance systems in place that can reliably detect such outbreaks
(WHO, 1999). Two countries that do have good quality disease surveillance
systems are the United States of America and the United Kingdom, both of
which produce regular reports of the number of detected outbreaks associated
with water.

     Table 7.1 shows the number of outbreaks reported in England and Wales
for the years 1991 to 2000, while Table 7.2 shows outbreaks for the USA for
1991 to 1998. From these two tables it is clear that outbreaks of illness
associated with drinking water are common even in affluent nations and can be
a cause of substantial illness. Furthermore, it can be seen that a relatively small
number of pathogens have been implicated in these outbreaks.

 Table 7.2. Outbreaks of infectious illness (1991-1998) linked to drinking water in
                                      the USA

      (Moore et al., 1993; Kramer et al., 1996a; Levy et al., 1998; Barwick et al., 2000)

                                                        Water system1
                                 Community              Non-community          Independent
Disease                     Outbreaks    Cases        Outbreaks   Cases    Outbreaks    Cases
Acute gastroenteritis of
                                5        10 105          35       4 673       3          51
unknown cause
Giardiasis                     10        1 986           3        128         2          12
Cryptosporidiosis               6       407 637          2        578         2          39
Norwalk-like virus              2         742
Campylobacteriosis              1         172            2         51
Salmonella typhimurium          1         625
Non-O1 Vibrio cholerae          1          11
E. coli O157                    1         157            3         39         1           3
Shigella sonnei                 1          83            5        484         1           5
Shigella flexneri                                                             1          33
Plesiomonas shigelloides                                 1         60
Hepatitis A                                              1         46         1          10
Total                          28       421 518          52       6 059       11         153
1. Community and non-community water systems are public water supplies that serve VHUYLFH
connections or an average of UHVLGHQWVIRUGD\V\HDU$FRPPXQLW\ZDWHUV\VWHPVHUYHV
year-round residents of a community, subdivision or mobile home park. A non-community water
system can be non-transient or transient. Non-transient systems serve RIWKHVDPHSHUVRQVIRU
>6 months of the year (e.g. factories or schools), whereas transient systems do not
(e.g. restaurants, highway rest stations or parks). Independent systems are small systems not
owned or operated by a water utility serving <15 connections or <25 persons.




                                                207
      In addition to those cases of illness associated with outbreaks, there remain
an uncertain number of sporadic cases. A sporadic case is a single case of
infection that is not obviously linked to other cases. In most sporadic cases of
disease, it is usually impossible to state with certainty where that individual
acquired his/her infection. Indeed, for most potentially waterborne diseases it is
difficult to estimate the proportion of such sporadic cases that are associated
with drinking water. What evidence there is comes from case-control and other
epidemiological studies and these are reviewed elsewhere (Hunter, 1997).

     Outbreaks of disease from drinking water supplies often result from chance
events (Deere et al., 2001). Table 7.3 provides an illustration of the diversity of
scenarios that can results in drinking water outbreaks. This has significant
implications for the design and operation of drinking water supplies. The water
suppliers need to have preventative and emergency response procedures in place
to ensure safe water delivery in the event of a variety of circumstances.

   Table 7.3. Scenarios affecting drinking water implicated in disease outbreaks

                                    (from Deere et al., 2001)

Causal event(s)                   Aetiology          Water type         Cases     Reference
Pre abstraction and
treatment
Surface run off from
contaminated catchment after                         Chlorinated                  Vogt et al.,
                                 Campylobacter                           3 000
heavy rain. Increased chlorine                       surface water                1982
demand due to turbidity
Contaminated surface run off
                                                     Untreated                    Millson et al.,
from melt water and heavy rain Campylobacter                             241
                                                     ground water                 1991
entering municipal wells
Drought followed by heavy rain                       Chlorinated and
                                                                                  Leland et al.,
agricultural surface run off and Cryptosporidium     package filtered     34
                                                                                  1993
poor coagulation and mixing                          river water
Poor mixing and flocculation
                                                     Surface water                Rose et al.,
with filters started up without   Cryptosporidium                       13 000
                                                     (CT)                         1997
backwashing
Increase in turbidity, poor
                                                     Surface water                Rose et al.,
coagulation and backwash          Cryptosporidium                       403 000
                                                     (CT)                         1997
recycling
Catchment contaminated by
higher than realised                                 Chlorinated                  Shaw et al.,
                                  Giardia                                350
population, chlorine dosage                          surface water                1977
too low




                                               208
  Table 7.3. Scenarios affecting drinking water implicated in disease outbreaks
                                   (continued)

Causal event(s)                Aetiology            Water type      Cases   Reference
Post abstraction and
treatment
Backflow of farm contaminated
                                                    Sand filtered
river water due to low mains  Campylobacter                         2 000   Mentzing, 1981
                                                    groundwater
pressure
Agricultural run-off entering                       Surface water           Badenoch,
                              Cryptosporidium                        27
unsealed supply                                     (CT)                    1990
Deliberate contamination of                         Municipal               Ramsay and
                               Giardia                                9
water storage tank                                  supply                  Marsh, 1990
Cross connection between
pressure dropped potable and   Giardia &            Surface water           Kramer et al.,
                                                                     304
wastewater lines at pump       Entamoeba            (CT)                    1996b
wash
Sewage overflow entering
pipes after repairs of ice                          Municipal               Swerdlow et al.,
                               E. coli O157                          243
breaks made without post                            supply                  1992
chlorination
Birds entering water storage                        Untreated               Angulo et al.,
                               Salmonella                            650
tank                                                ground water            1997
CT: conventionally treated.



7.3        Preventing outbreaks

     The variety of scenarios that can lead to outbreaks from drinking water has
been illustrated in Table 7.3. Each water supply system is unique and, therefore,
the scenarios that could lead to an outbreak can differ between supplies. The
relevant authorities need to assess the risk of outbreaks from a range of
scenarios for each specific supply, and then controls should be put in place to
prevent such outbreaks occurring.

     A ‘water safety plan’ can be developed to detail both the design of controls
and the operating practices that would theoretically lead to the consistent
provision of safe water (see Box 1.3). Such a plan would consider both nominal
operating conditions and unusual events. A detailed discussion of a water safety
plan is outside the scope of this chapter, however, an overview of how the
responsible authorities would manage ‘incidents’ of suspected unsafe drinking
water is given here.




                                              209
7.3.1       Incident management

     For the purposes of this section of the chapter the term ‘incident’ will be
used to refer to any situation in which there is reason to suspect that water being
supplied for drinking is, or is about to become, unsafe. Such a broad definition
means that a variety of triggers can lead to an incident being declared.

     Judicious use of indicator parameters can provide the earliest practical
warning of the possibility that water may become unsafe. In other cases an
incident might not be declared until health authorities detect an increase in
disease and begin to question the safety of the drinking water supply. Incident
triggers could include:

 •       Process indicators:
     −    Inadequate performance of a sewage treatment plant discharging to
          source water.

     −    Inadequate performance of drinking water treatment plant.

 •       Notification of chance events:
     −    Spillage of a hazardous substance into source water.

     −    Failure of power supply to a critical asset.

 •       Non-microbial indicator parameters:
     −    Extreme rainfall in a catchment.

     −    Detection of unusually high turbidity (source or treated water).

     −    Unusual taste, odour or appearance of water.

 •       Microbial indicator parameters:
     −    Measurement of unusually high faecal indicator densities (source or
          treated water).

     −    Measurement of unusually high pathogen densities (source or treated
          water).

 •       Public health indicators:
     −    Disease outbreak for which water is a suspect vector.


                                           210
     For the purposes of this chapter, two categories of incident will be
discussed separately, namely:

 •      Specified incidents involving a pre-determined response to a nominated
        and routinely measured indicator trigger.
 •      Unspecified incidents involving a more general response, which is not
        fully pre-determined, to a range of possible triggers.


7.3.2      Response to specified incidents

     Indicators of potentially unsafe water can be selected and systematically
monitored throughout the water supply chain or cycle. Such indicators should
yield information in good time to enable corrective action to prevent unsafe
water being supplied. Alert levels can be set against which to compare
observations. Alert levels would typically be just within critical limits of
operation, outside of which confidence in water safety would be lost. Pre-
determined corrective actions can be implemented once alert levels are
exceeded. The corrective action (contingency) plans form part the specified
aspects of the incident preparedness program.

     Incident plans can have a range of alert levels. These can be minor, early
warning, necessitating no more than additional investigation by a designated
team, through to full emergency, requiring all available personnel and
equipment. Major emergencies are likely to require the resources of
organisations beyond the authority primarily responsible for supplying drinking
water, particularly the health authorities.

     Incident plans typically consist of items such as:

 •      Accountabilities and contact details for key personnel, often including
        several organisations and individuals.
 •      Lists of measurable indicators that might trigger incidents along with a
        scale of alert levels.
 •      Clear description of the actions required in response to alerts.
 •      Location and identity of the detailed standard operating procedures and
        required equipment.
 •      Location of backup equipment.




                                         211
  •     Relevant logistical and technical information.
  •     Checklists, proformas and quick reference guides.

     The plan may need to be followed at very short notice so standby rosters,
effective communication systems and up to date training and documentation are
required


Case study: Incident response to turbidity indicator levels

     The incident preparedness program of the Sydney Catchment Authority
includes detailed contingency plans for responding to indicators of poor source
water quality. For example, the Authority monitors turbidity at many points in
the source water supply system. It has developed an integrated bulk water
supply system that provides a number of source water supply options. The
turbidity of water entering critical reservoirs is monitored continuously. If there
is an increase of > 5 NTU within three hours then an incident is declared and an
alternative source water may be used. Filtered water turbidity is also monitored
continuously and if it exceeds 1 NTU, an alternative source water will be
selected.


7.3.3      Response to unspecified incidents

     Some scenarios that lead to water being considered potentially unsafe
might not be specifically identified within incident plans. This may be either
because the events were unforeseen, or because they were considered too
unlikely to justify preparing detailed corrective action plans. To allow for such
events, a generalised water safety incident response plan can be developed. The
plan would be used to provide general guidance on identifying and handling of
incidents along with specific guidance on responses that would be applied to
many different types of incident.

     Rather than alert-level categories being pre-determined, a protocol for
situation assessment and declaring incidents would be provided that includes
personal accountabilities and categorical selection criteria. The selection criteria
may include:

  •     Time to effect.
  •     Population affected.
  •     Nature of the suspected hazard.


                                          212
     Alert levels can vary, as they do for specified incidents, from minor
through to full-scale emergencies. The preparation of clear procedures,
accountabilities and equipment for the sampling and storing water in the event
of an incident can be valuable for follow up epidemiological or other
investigations, and the sampling and storage of water from early on during a
suspected incident should be part of the response plan.

     The success of unspecified incident responses depends on the experience,
judgement and skill of the personnel operating and managing the drinking water
supply systems. However, generic activities that are common to many suspected
contamination events can be incorporated within general unspecified incident
preparedness programs. For example, for piped systems, emergency flushing
standard operating procedures can be prepared, and tested, for use in the event
that contaminated water needs to be flushed from a piped system. Similarly,
standard operating procedures for rapidly changing or by-passing reservoirs can
be prepared, tested and incorporated. The development of such a ‘toolkit’ of
supporting material limits the likelihood of error and speeds up responses
during incidents.


Case study: General incident response involving emergency flushing

       Sydney Water has developed a detailed incident preparedness program. If
it is suspected that water may be contaminated for whatever reason, an incident
is declared. Among the emergency standard operating procedures available for
use during incidents are systematic emergency flushing plans. These have been
developed to provide standard operating procedures for the most rapid practical
removal of suspect water from the distribution system. The plans have been
prepared in manageable sections in a ready-to-use format for supply direct to
operations officers.


7.3.4      Water avoidance and boil water orders

     In most water supply scenarios it is possible to:

 •      Terminate the supply of water.
 •      Advise (some or all) consumers to avoid consuming water.
 •      Advise (some or all) consumers to treat water, usually by boiling.




                                         213
     An incident preparedness program should include a thorough evaluation of
the basis for calling such orders. The objective of the order should be taken in
the public interest and typically involves a final decision by health authorities.

      Even where drinking water contamination is suspected, the public interest
is not always best served by making avoidance or disconnection orders.
Research has shown that many people do not follow advice to boil their water,
in part because of confusion over what to do (Angulo et al., 1997; O’Donnell et
al., 2000: Willocks et al., 2000). Furthermore, there is also evidence that boil
water notices can have negative public health consequences through causing
anxiety and also burns and scalds (Mayon-White and Frankenberg, 1989;
Willocks et al., 2000). If advice to boil water is issued then the incident team
must be convinced of an ongoing risk to health of drinking tap water, which
outweighs any risk from the boil water notice itself (Hunter, 2000a). Disability-
adjusted life years can be used to provide a common currency to assist in this
type of health-based decision-making (Murray, 1994). Financial considerations
are also likely to be important. Turning off water supplies can have major
economic consequences due to lost production and damaged equipment.

     The relevant authorities should have a clear understanding of the
accountabilities, circumstances and criteria regarding the calling of such orders.
In addition, practical operating procedures should be in place. For example,
procedures for rapid shutdown, or for alerting the public in the event of a water
avoidance or boil order, should be thoroughly planned. Additionally, any
incident management team intending to issue advice to boil water should be
very clear at the outset about the criteria that will be used to lift the advice.

     Emergency water supplies, such as the use of water tankers, can be
maintained on standby at all times, or powers can be put in place to enable
commandeering. Rapid notification procedures such as media, mail-drops and
public address system vehicles need to be practical and available at any time.
Systems that enable tracing of water from source to consumer can assist in
better targeting of these types of responses to minimise the extent of their
impacts.


7.4      Outbreak investigation

     This section outlines the steps typically taken in the investigation of an
outbreak of suspected waterborne illness in a developed country. The timely
discovery of an outbreak and its cause normally involves a long series of events
with different agencies involved. Consequently, the most effective outbreak
investigations follow a sequence of activities, outlined below:


                                       214
•   Planning. Planning should address key issues about who should be
    involved in the investigation and what their roles should be. Outbreak
    plans should also address who will have lead responsibility for
    implementing the outbreak plan and who will have leadership of the
    management group.
•   Outbreak detection and confirmation. Normally an increase in reports
    of illness or detection of particular pathogens in human samples is the first
    sign of an outbreak. Rarely, the first sign of a waterborne outbreak can
    also be a technical problem with the water source or in the water treatment
    or distribution. An important first step in any outbreak investigation is the
    confirmation of an apparent outbreak. Before an outbreak is officially
    declared, possible causes of error should be considered and excluded.
    Such causes of apparent outbreaks include laboratory false positives, the
    introduction of new laboratory methods and sudden changes in reporting
    behaviour (Casemore, 1992).
•   Outbreak description. The first step in outbreak description is the
    derivation of the ‘case definition’. A case definition is necessary to
    identify those cases that should and should not be included in subsequent
    analyses. The case definition should contain the presence of key
    symptoms and/or laboratory results, geographical location and date of
    onset or notification. There may be several case-definitions in use at a
    single time (e.g. one for a possible case and one for a confirmed case). In
    the beginning of the outbreak investigation a fairly wide definition is
    needed in order not to lose cases. Later during the investigation, when
    more information is revealed, the case definition can often be narrowed.
    When the case definition has been agreed, the next step is to identify how
    many people meet the case definition, by a process of ‘case finding’. This
    may involve reviewing existing laboratory or other notification records, or
    involve proactive searching by contacting doctors, or possible cases
    themselves to identify cases that may not have been formally notified. It is
    important to find out when the outbreak started and identify the first case
    (primary or index case). The date at which each case fell ill (and
    sometimes even the hour) plotted as a graph (epidemic curve) gives
    valuable epidemiological information, and can provide a picture of the
    outbreak (e.g. a point source or a continuous outbreak). The geographical
    spread might give an idea about the cause of the outbreak. Cases can be
    plotted on a map to examine the possibility of clustering (e.g. households
    with the same community water or households situated on just one part
    the water distribution system or a private well). Age, sex and other
    socio-economic data may also give information about the likely causes.




                                     215
•   Hypothesis generation. Once sufficient information has been collected, a
    preliminary hypothesis as to the cause of the outbreak can be generated.
    Based on this, various remedial control measures may be suggested.
•   Hypothesis confirmation. When the outbreak team has a hypothesis as to
    the cause of the outbreak, efforts are directed at proving or disproving this
    suggestion. There are three strands to this part of the investigation: further
    epidemiological investigations, further microbiological analyses of human
    and environmental samples and, in the case of a suspected waterborne
    outbreak, a sanitary inspection of the water treatment and distribution
    system. Epidemiological investigations at this stage will normally be of
    the case-control or cohort type. In these types of study, cases and controls
    (other individuals who were not ill) are interviewed and the responses
    analysed statistically to identify differences between the two groups
    (Hunter, 1997). The further microbiological analyses during outbreak
    investigation may include additional collection of human or
    environmental samples or more detailed characterisation of those samples.
    The sanitary inspections of the water treatment plant and distribution
    system are undertaken to collect evidence of failure in, or inadequate
    design of, the water treatment system. Such information is helpful in
    confirming the hypothesis of a water source for the outbreak. Evidence of
    what went wrong is also essential for informing the water supplier on how
    such failures and the consequent risk to public health can be prevented in
    future. The entire treatment and distribution system should be surveyed.
    Evidence of failure may be available in existing routinely collected data
    (Section 7.5) or become obvious only after enhanced monitoring or after
    surveying the treatment and distribution system.
•   Strength of association. When all the evidence has been collected, the
    outbreak management team has to come to a conclusion about whether or
    not the suspect water supply was indeed the cause of the outbreak. Both
    the UK and USA have developed a form of scoring system that attempts
    to define the reliability of the conclusion of any association between water
    and disease. However, the two systems are not compatible as the UK
    classifies the strength of association between water and disease whilst the
    US system classifies the completeness of the investigation. There is a need
    for an internationally agreed system of classifying the strength of
    association between drinking water and disease in outbreaks. Both of
    these categorisations give considerable weight to analytical
    epidemiological studies, most commonly the case-control study, although
    recent evidence has suggested that these studies may be highly biased in
    those outbreaks where the possible cause has been made public. Such bias




                                      216
      can lead to drinking water being falsely associated with an outbreak
      (Hunter, 2000b; Hunter and Syed, 2002).

7.5      Reviewing existing data

     In any outbreak investigation where drinking water is suspected as the
cause, one of the key sources of information are the records of the routine
analyses of water quality, typically already held by the water supplier. Such a
retrospective review of routine water quality data will seek evidence of
reduction in source water quality, failure in water treatment and distribution
and, rarely, evidence of the presence of the suspect pathogen in the treated
water supply.

     Routine bacteriological tests of drinking water are, in most countries,
concentrated on parameters like E. coli, thermotolerant coliforms, total
coliforms and heterotrophic plate-count bacteria which have simple analysis
techniques. In some countries faecal streptococci (enterococci) and spores of
sulphite-reducing clostridia are also included in the routine tests. Recently,
some countries have started to include tests for Cryptosporidium in samples
originating from, or influenced by, surface water but these involve rather
expensive sampling procedures and analytical techniques, and only a few
countries demand such tests to be done.

      The most commonly available microbial results will normally be E. coli or
thermotolerant coliforms. These species are used as an index of relatively fresh
faecal contamination. In addition to the microbial tests, physicochemical water
parameters such as turbidity, pH, chlorine residual, colour and organic matter
may be monitored. Additionally, registration of failures in water treatment units,
filters, dosing equipment, water pumps, distribution system, intake pipelines
and so on, is of utmost importance for later investigation and determining the
cause of the outbreak of illness.

    Other useful parameters that may be monitored by the water supplier, or
may be obtained from other sources include meteorological data (e.g. rainfall)
and data on incidents that might affect water flow or water quality (e.g. floods,
droughts, avalanches etc.).

     Among data that are not usually monitored by suppliers on routine basis,
but may be helpful if available are:




                                       217
  •   Leakage from sewers or storm overflows affecting the water source.
  •   Traffic or industrial accidents with an effluent causing water pollution.
  •   Incidents that create low or negative pressure inside the drinking water
      pipelines (which may allow the ingress of polluted water).


Case study: A pressure drop and cross connection

     This case study relates to an outbreak of illness in Hungary in 1986. Over
the course of the outbreak (which lasted two weeks) about 350 cases were
detected, with 14 different pathogens detected from clinical samples (11
serotypes of Salmonella, 2 of Shigella flexneri and E. coli O124). When the
outbreak first came to light, interviews revealed that all the cases had consumed
drinking water at Szolnok railway station. Although no breakdown or failure in
the drinking water system had been noted (other than a pressure drop that had
affected the whole area), microscopic examination of water from the station
showed the presence of large amounts of diatomaceous algae. The algae were
identical to those previously detected in the river, indicating that untreated river
water (containing the town’s sewage) was present in the station drinking water.
Later, bacteriological analysis of the same samples confirmed the microscopic
examination, with 75% containing at least 80/100 ml thermotolerant coliforms.
The fault causing the contamination was eventually shown to be a cross
connection with an industrial water system using river water, with the valve
connection probably being opened in response to the drop in pressure.


7.6       Enhanced monitoring including pathogen detection

      Following the detection or suspicion of an outbreak, it may be appropriate
to increase the amount of sampling over that normally undertaken for a
particular supply. The reasons for this are two-fold: in order to provide further
evidence that the water supply is the source of the outbreak and to identify the
failure in treatment or distribution that led to the outbreak. Enhanced monitoring
may involve:

  •   Taking more samples than normal from the same sites.
  •   Taking samples from elsewhere in the distribution system.
  •   Undertaking microbiological analyses that would not normally be
      undertaken (this may include monitoring for pathogens).




                                        218
     Increased sampling using standard methods at the routine sites may be
useful to detect short-lived transient events. Small supplies may only be
sampled infrequently, once a month or less. If such a small supply is implicated
in an outbreak, sample frequency may be increased to one or more samples
daily.

      Increasing the number of sites where samples are taken may be useful for
detecting localised problems within the distribution system and the greater
number of samples may also improve the chances of detecting transient events.
In this context, it may be appropriate to extend sampling to include:

 •   Livestock and potential sources of human pollution from within the
     catchment area.
 •   Source water, including wells that may not be currently used for
     extraction and sediment from storage reservoirs.
 •   Various critical points in the treatment plant, including backwash water
     from filter beds.
 •   Water and sediment from various points in the distribution system,
     including service reservoirs, pipelines and consumers taps.
 •   Stored water such as container water, ice, or filters if these are available.

     One of the most powerful pieces of evidence implicating a water supply as
the cause of an outbreak of infectious disease is the demonstration of the
causative agent in the supply, especially in water pre-dating the event.
Therefore, during most suspected waterborne outbreaks efforts will be made to
isolate the pathogen from the water.


Case study: Additional sampling and catchment investigations

      In the UK, an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis was linked to Thirlmere
reservoir a surface water source that was chlorinated but not filtered prior to
distribution (Hunter and Syed, 2001). An increase in the cases of illness in the
areas served by Thirlmere, followed the detection of oocysts in a sample of
treated water (34/10 litres). Oocysts isolated from the clinical samples were
found to be type 2 Cryptosporidium (a zoonotic strain). A subsequent
investigation revealed oocysts in sheep faeces within the reservoir catchment,
which supported the hypothesis that the sheep were the ultimate source of the
outbreak. However, the following year an outbreak affecting people resident in
Glasgow was associated with another unfiltered surface water source. As in the
Thirlmere outbreak, genotyping of clinical cases was type 2 and oocysts were


                                       219
detected in sheep faeces from around the catchment. However, when the sheep
oocysts were typed they were found to be a novel genotype not previously
found in man, suggesting that sheep may not have been the source (Chalmers et
al., 2002a). These two studies illustrate the value of linking molecular methods
to the investigation of outbreaks.


Case study: Analysis of stored water

     An outbreak of illness implicated a supply zone serving about 12 000
people. During the course of the outbreak 1 267 cases were identified (an attack
rate of over 10%). Clinical sampling found a range of pathogens, but the
dominant one was Salmonella hadar. Water sampling indicated heavy faecal
contamination, although in most cases pathogens could not be detected,
however, salmonellae were isolated from two water samples, one of which was
from bottled tap water that had been stored in a patient’s refrigerator. In both
cases S. hadar (i.e. the strain implicated in the outbreak) was identified. The
source of the outbreak was traced to ingress of sewage-contaminated
groundwater through a poor weld on a new water main. Although the
construction works on the new trunk main was suspected very early on and the
ingress identified, isolation of S. hadar from both patients and water samples
confirmed the waterborne nature of the outbreak.


7.6.1    Pathogen detection

     There are several pathogens for which there are well proven methods
available for detection in water in the international literature and in national or
international standards (Anon, 1994). This is the case with several enteric
bacteria, such as thermotolerant Campylobacter spp., Salmonella spp. and
Vibrio cholerae.

     Although a fairly uncommon cause of waterborne outbreaks
(Hunter, 1997), salmonellae seem to be quite easily isolated from suspect water
sources during outbreaks. Shigella spp., however, are a common cause of
waterborne outbreaks world-wide but the detection of Shigella spp. from water
using traditional methods is difficult because of the lack of methods of
appropriate selectivity. The detection of pathogenic E. coli in implicated water
is not usually attempted because of the difficulty in distinguishing them from
non-pathogenic E. coli. The exception to this is during outbreaks of
enterohaemorrhagic E. coli, which is a much more severe disease and has
certain cultural characteristics to help distinguish E. coli O157 from other types.



                                       220
     Of the viruses shown to be present in faecally contaminated drinking
water, the enterovirus group can be most easily detected but, in contrast with the
name of this group, they do not generally cause enteric disease and are rarely
involved in overt outbreaks. The exception being polioviruses, these were the
cause of large outbreaks in the past when a waterborne mechanism was often
supposed, although only one proven case is known (Farley et al., 1984). Their
role in causing low-level transmission through drinking water, however, is
widely speculated upon. Although waterborne hepatitis A (HAV) outbreaks
have frequently been reported, the detection of the virus in the water is
generally not attempted because of the lack of available technique. Only since
1979 have techniques been developed for the propagation of HAV in cell
culture and isolation from water samples (Provost and Hilleman, 1979). The
only known example of successfully culturing HAV in parallel with
unconventional methods from water that caused waterborne outbreak was
described in the early 1990s (Divizia et al., 1993).


Case study: Isolation of Salmonella sp.

      Clinical samples from an outbreak of illness uniformly showed S.
typhimurium (phage type 4, biotype 2) to be the causative agent. Food samples
were negative and no common food source could be identified. The waterborne
route was suggested by the exclusion of other possible routes and also some of
the descriptive epidemiology. Water sampling during the outbreak was found to
be acceptable in terms of coliform content and plate counts. As a result of the
absence of faecal indicators the isolation of the outbreak strain of Salmonella in
two water samples was initially dismissed as being due to faulty sampling
technique. The public health authority took action and a boil water order and
increased chlorination ended the outbreak. Final proof of the waterborne nature
of the outbreak was not made until several months after it had ended. It was
realised that shortly before the outbreak a family (served by a pit latrine rather
than sewerage connection), living close to the pipeline connecting one of the
supply wells (that provided unchlorinated water to the network) to a water tower
had experienced illness caused by S. typhimurium. Investigations revealed that
the pipeline close to the pit latrine had a crack in it, allowing the small-scale
intrusion of contaminated groundwater. This example demonstrates the
importance of not ignoring data and it also highlights the fact that pathogens
may be present in disinfected drinking water in the absence of faecal indicators.




                                       221
7.6.2    Molecular techniques

     The chance of detecting a pathogen from an implicated drinking water
source is often much improved using novel microbiological methods (especially
molecular techniques – see Chapter 8 for more details), this is particularly true
for viruses with no readily available or rapid cultural method. This group
includes rotaviruses, astroviruses, caliciviruses, hepatitis A virus, Norwalk virus
and other small round viruses (West, 1991). Traditional methods for the
detection of viruses are based on tissue culture techniques that can take several
weeks to perform. Direct polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods although
faster than conventional cell culture techniques are less sensitive than culture
techniques with low levels of viral particles undetectable in environmental
samples. Combined tissue culture and PCR methods offer major advantages
over each individual method in that the detection of infectious virus is
maximised and PCR inhibitors are removed. The assay greatly reduces the time
needed to detect these organisms with times reduced to a few days. New
developments in PCR technology may provide faster more sensitive detection
and quantification of viral particles in the future.

     Alternative methods for the identification/detection of potentially
pathogenic bacteria include the use of in situ hybridisation and species-specific
probes (Prescott and Fricker, 1999). This powerful technique enables organisms
to be detected in situ within a few hours and can be adapted for use with any
organism. With the advancement of micro-array and technologies several
different probes targeting many different pathogens can be processed together.
This could be invaluable for sample analysis during outbreak conditions.

     Whether to undertake such a demanding examination has to be decided in
each situation. In most cases, success is dependent on the ready availability of
personnel with the relevant skills and resources. For many pathogens the best
results are likely to be obtained by a national or regional reference laboratory
specially practised in the detection of certain pathogens. It is most useful if an
action plan for outbreak investigation is available, containing the necessary
steps to be taken and laboratories to be contacted in case of emergency. In turn,
reference laboratories should also have a contingency plan in order to deal with
urgent requests to participate in waterborne outbreak investigations.


Case study: Virus identification

      In Finland a waterborne outbreak of Norwalk-like virus in Heinävesi was
attributed to an outbreak of illness (affecting 500 people) three months earlier in
Kuopio, a town 70 kilometres upstream (Kukkula et al., 1999). The sewage


                                       222
from Kuopio is discharged to a lake (from which Heinävesi takes its raw water),
which at the time of the outbreak was iced over. Reverse transcriptase
polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed virus in tap water samples in
Heinävesi and also demonstrated that the virus was identical to those isolated
from clinical samples in both outbreaks (Maunula et al., 1999).


7.6.3    Negative results

     Although pathogen detection is important in outbreak investigation,
recovery of pathogens from drinking water is often unsuccessful even when a
supply is strongly associated with an outbreak. Probably the most common
cause of failure to detect an implicated pathogen is the time between
contamination and subsequent infection and the time that the outbreak is
detected and investigations commenced. A transient contamination event may
lead to only temporary contamination of the supply. The chance of finding the
pathogenic agent is also dependent on the method used, the organism’s
robustness in the water environment in general and its resistance to water
disinfectants. Additionally, the ability to detect a pathogen in a water supply
may be hampered by the common practice of performing a preventative
super-disinfection, which is sometimes conducted prior to ensuring that
appropriate sample(s) are taken for examination of the water, so destroying any
remaining pathogens that may have been present.

     Even if pathogenic agents are detected in the implicated drinking water,
this may not always correlate with the clinical picture. In one outbreak, for
example, both echo- and coxsackie viruses were isolated from water samples
but the clinical picture implicated a different type of viral infection (Stenström,
1994), clearly where sewage contamination has occurred the detection of mixed
pathogens is unsurprising. In this situation, isolation of a pathogen different to
the one causing the outbreak could only be taken as evidence of inadequate
water management.


7.6.4    Pathogen typing and strain characterisation

      Even where it has been possible to detect a pathogen, in some cases it may
be insufficient to identify the causative organism in human or environmental
samples only down to the species level. Further characterisation may be vital in
determining the source of contamination and a number of properties can be
utilised, such as antibiotic resistance profiles. These can differentiate for
example between human and non-human faecal sources as the bacteria infecting
humans and livestock are often resistant to different antibiotics.


                                       223
     The traditional use of typing is to enable the investigators to determine
whether strains isolated from different sources are indistinguishable or not.
Another use is in the determination of virulence (i.e. if different strains within a
species vary in their ability to cause illness). Finally, sometimes different strain
types have different epidemiology as in the case of Cryptosporidium parvum
where type 2 strains are zoonotic and type 1 are largely restricted to causing
infection in humans.

     When choosing any typing method there are a number of criteria that need
to be considered (Hunter, 1991). These include:

  •   Typability (the proportion of strains that can be typed by that method).
  •   Reproducibility (the probability that if the same strain was re-tested it
      would give the same result).
  •   Discriminatory power (the ability of a method to distinguish between
      unrelated strains).

     In addition, cost, ease of use and timeliness are important factors. There
are many different typing methods described in the literature and the optimal
method depends on the organism under investigation, the reasons for typing
(whether as an aid to characterise a few strains associated with a hospital
outbreak or an aid to surveillance within a country) and the resources available
to the typing laboratory (both financial and technical expertise).

     This section focuses principally on modern molecular typing methods
(with more details in Chapter 8), which have been used increasingly since the
early 1980s. However, typing methods have been used by microbiologists long
before then. One of the most important ‘traditional’ techniques is serotyping,
which is still the primary typing method used in the categorisation of a number
of microorganisms including: Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., E. coli, and the
enteroviruses (Threlfall and Frost, 1990; Hinton, 1985; Wenner, 1982). It works
by discriminating between strains on the basis of their surface antigens. For
bacterial pathogens the method usually involves mixing the strain under
investigation with various sera and looking for agglutination. For viruses, the
technique usually involves demonstrating loss of the ability to infect tissue
culture cells after mixing with sera.

      Other traditional typing methods include (Aber and Mackel, 1981):




                                        224
 •   Bacteriophage typing where strains are discriminated according to their
     susceptibility to killing by bacteriophages. This method is still commonly
     used in typing of Staphylococcus aureus and various serotypes of
     Salmonella (Threlfall and Frost, 1990).
 •   Biotyping that discriminates on the basis of the requirements for selected
     nutrients to grow. Although widely used in the past for many different
     pathogens including E. coli (Hinton, 1985), biotyping has largely fallen
     out of favour. However, it may still have a role to play in laboratories with
     few resources.
 •   Resistotyping distinguishes between strains on the susceptibility to
     various antibiotics and other antimicrobial agents, usually known as
     antibiograms. Resistotyping based on antibiotic sensitivity patterns has a
     considerable advantage in that antimicrobial susceptibility testing is
     frequently undertaken to guide therapy and so the data is usually to hand.
     As a typing method, resistotyping comes into its own for the rapid
     identification of strains with unusual antibiograms.
 •   Bacteriocin typing is based on the production of, or susceptibility to,
     various bacteriocins (compounds produced by bacteria that inhibit the
     growth of other strains). This method was commonly used in the typing of
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa when it was known as pyocin typing
     (Pitt, 1988), it has now, however, been largely superseded by other
     methods.

     A major problem with traditional methods is that they are frequently of
low typability and discriminatory power. Furthermore, typing can often only be
done within certain reference laboratories and sending strains away can lead to
delay. Many of the modern molecular methods offer considerable advantages
for typing and a number of DNA ‘fingerprinting’ techniques have been
described, including the following:

 •   Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP).
 •   Pulse field gel electrophoresis.
 •   Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD).

     These enable each isolate to be characterised by a unique set of banding
patterns which can be used for species identification or for epidemiological
purposes and are described in more detail in a case study below and in
Chapter 8.




                                        225
Case study: Shigella typing

     In 1998, in Nagasaki Japan, there was a large outbreak of Shigella sonnei
infection, with 470 confirmed cases and 821 epidemiological linked cases. The
outbreak investigation started when six students were reported ill (five of whom
were hospitalised); all of who had eaten lunch at the University cafeteria. Active
case finding and a cohort study of University users (students, staff and visitors)
was undertaken. This found that 25% of regular University users had symptoms
that met the case definition.

     Patient interviews provided no evidence of a common food, but consuming
water on campus was suspected to be associated with illness. The campus was
supplied from two shallow wells, with no water treatment other than
chlorination. Disinfection, however, was thought to be inadequate with samples
showing no evidence of residual chlorine. Additionally, microbial tests were
positive for Shigella sonnei. The source of the contamination was traced to a
leakage of raw sewage from a nearby sewerage pipeline (identified using a
sodium chloride tracer). DNA fingerprinting, using pulse field gel
electrophoresis revealed that the isolates of Shigella sonnei were identical from
both clinical and water samples. The outbreak was halted by issuing instructions
not to drink the campus water and then switching from the well source to a
municipal supply.


Case study: Cryptosporidium identification

      Recent advances in the application of molecular biological methods to
Cryptosporidium have contributed much to knowledge of the epidemiology of
cryptosporidiosis. Human disease is usually caused by C. parvum, in which two
genotypes predominate. Genotype 1 is the anthroponotic genotype (type H) that
is largely restricted to humans, and genotype 2 (type C) is the zoonotic
genotype that causes both human and animal disease (Fayer et al., 2000). Thus,
the detection of genotype 1 is indicative of a human source of infection or
contamination and genotype 2 of either an animal or a human source.
Genotypes, and indeed some species, of Cryptosporidium cannot be
differentiated microscopically. Characterisation of isolates using DNA
amplification-based methods is advantageous over phenotypic methods since
relatively few organisms are required (Gasser and O’Donoghue, 1999).

     Molecular characterisation of Cryptosporidium has included analysis of
repetitive DNA sequences, RAPD, direct PCR with DNA sequencing and
PCR/RFLP analysis (Clark, 1999; Morgan et al., 1999). The two distinct



                                       226
C. parvum genotypes have been consistently differentiated at a variety of gene
loci (Fayer et al., 2000), including:

 •    Cryptosporidium Oocyst Wall Protein (COWP).
 •    Ribonuclease reductase.
 •    18S rDNA (syn. small subunit ribosomal RNA).
 •    Internal transcribed rDNA spacers (ITS1 and ITS2).
 •    Acetyl-CoA synthetase.
 •    Dihydrofolate reductase-thymidylate synthase (dhfr-ts).
 •    Thrombospondin related adhesive proteins (TRAP-C1 and TRAP-C2).
 •    the α and β beta tubulin.
 •    70kDa heat shock protein (hsp70).

     Application of genotyping techniques has also led to the characterisation of
additional Cryptosporidium spp. and genotypes, and it has become clear that
while the majority of human cryptosporidiosis is caused by C. parvum, other
species are also found infecting both immunocompetent and
immunocompromised patients (Fayer et al., 2000; Chalmers et al., 2002b). It is
evident that some primer pairs are species specific, such as those for TRAP-C2
which is specific for C. parvum (Elwin et al., 2001), while others cross react
with related protozoan parasites, and that some PCR/RFLPs differentiate
species/genotypes more readily than others (Sulaiman et al., 1999). While
PCR/RFLP is widely used for characterisation, and allows many specimens to
be analysed and compared, only bases at the restriction enzyme sites are
examined. Sequence analysis provides the ‘gold standard’ since all the bases
within the target sequence at the locus are examined. The importance of
sequence confirmation of RFLP patterns was illustrated by Chalmers et al.
(2002) who identified a novel RFLP pattern, similar to C. parvum genotype 1,
in the COWP gene of isolates from sheep, but sequence data clearly
differentiated the isolate. Therefore, careful primer selection and PCR product
analysis is required for detection and characterisation, particularly from
environmental specimens where a wide range of cryptosporidia and other
organisms may be present. It must also be noted that oocyst recovery and PCR
methods from environmental samples, including water, have yet to be
standardised.




                                      227
      The further differentiation of subtypes within Cryptosporidium genotypes
provides additional resolution for epidemiological investigations (Glaberman et
al., 2001), and a variety of tracking tools are being investigated and evaluated.
The discovery of a number of dinucleotide and trinucleotide repeats within the
Cryptosporidium genome has enabled the application of microsatellite typing as
a method for further segregation within the two divisions of C. parvum (Caccio,
2000). Blasdall et al. (2001) have exploited an apparent fortuitous juxtaposition
of two non-coding genes within the genome of Cryptosporidium, yielding host-
level resolution of C. parvum in a robust method where banding patterns appear
stable over a number of years within a single herd. Sequence analysis of small
double-stranded extra chromosomal RNAs in C. parvum (Xiao et al., 2001) and
of a highly polymorphic gene encoding a 60KDa glycoprotein (Strong et al.,
2000) also offer tracking tools, while analysis of single strand conformation
polymorphisms is also being investigated as a subtyping tool (Gasser et al.,
2001).

      The methods discussed above are already having a significant impact on
the investigation of outbreaks of waterborne cryptosporidiosis. The ability to
distinguish between the anthroponotic and zoonotic genotypes is a significant
pointer towards identifying the possible source of pollution. Patel et al. (1998)
were able to demonstrate that two outbreaks originally thought to be due to
agricultural pollution were actually due to human sewage. However, typing
based only on genotyping has a low discriminatory power. In the case of an
outbreak with a zoonotic strain, genotyping alone will not enable investigators
to determine which herds are most likely to be responsible for the contamination
events. The methods for increased strain discrimination discussed above have
the potential to answer these types of question. Improved strain discrimination
can also improve the epidemiological investigation of an outbreak by improving
case definition. Possible cases who are infected with a strain other than the
outbreak strain could be excluded from analysis, and so reduce potential for
bias.

7.7      Summary

     Waterborne outbreaks are the most obvious manifestation of waterborne
disease. Microbiological examinations have several roles in the investigation of
such outbreaks. The finding of the causative pathogen in the water supply is
among the best evidence of a link between a water supply and an outbreak of
disease. However, for a number of reasons it is frequently impossible to obtain
this piece of evidence. Novel molecular methods may offer a better chance of
identifying pathogens in the water supply than traditional cultural methods.
However, sensitivity remains low and even if sensitivity were increased no test


                                      228
will detect an organism that was flushed from the distribution system a week or
more previously. Incident preparedness plans would ideally include provision
for the appropriate collection and storage of samples of water during suspected
waterborne disease outbreaks to assist with follow-up. However, investigation
methods following an outbreak do not require the pathogen to be detected in the
supply. The second major use of microbiological investigations is in
demonstrating failure in optimal water treatment and distribution. Laboratory
tests or process indicators assessed as part of the routine management of the
supply may provide useful information, as may the results of increased
sampling using standard coliform and thermotolerant coliform counts. Above
all, microbiology is essential in the diagnosis of individual cases of infection in
the human population. The human population remains the best monitor of
certain threats to the water supply (e.g. for cryptosporidiosis). Increasingly,
novel technologies are being used to type strains isolated from humans to
confirm that cases are indeed part of an outbreak of infection. Such typing may
also provide clues to the epidemiology of an outbreak as when strains from
humans can be shown to be the same as strains isolated from the environment.

      Finally, microbial and other indicator parameters provide valuable tools for
alerting the responsible authorities to the possibility of water becoming unsafe.
Judicious use of indicator parameters within the context of a systematic water
safety plan should provide early warning of potential public health incidents,
enabling a planned corrective response. A more generalised state of incident
preparedness should reduce the public health risk even in the event of a scenario
for which a specific corrective response has not been prepared.




                                       229
                                  REFERENCES



Aber, R.C. and Mackel, D.C. (1981) Epidemiologic typing of nosocomial
      microorganisms. American Journal of Medicine 70, 899-905.

Andersson, Y. and Bohan, P. (2001) Disease surveillance and waterborne
     outbreaks. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and Health.
     Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related infectious
     disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing, London.
     pp.115-133.

Angulo, F.J., Tippen, S., Sharp, D.J., Payne, B.J., Collier, C., Hill, J.E., Barrett,
     T.J., Clark, R.M., Geldreich, E.E., Donnell, H.D. and Swerdlow, D.L.
     (1997) A community waterborne outbreak of salmonellosis and the
     effectiveness of a boil water order. American Journal of Public Health
     87(4), 580-584.

Anon (1994) The Microbiology of Water 1994: Part 1 – Drinking water.
     Reports on Public Health and Medical Subjects, No. 71. Her Majesty’s
     Stationery Office, London.

Badenoch, J. (1990) Cryptosporidium in water supplies. Report of the Group of
     Experts. Department of the Environment, Department of Health. Her
     Majesty’s Stationery Office, London.

Barwick, R.S., Levy, D.A., Craun, G.F., Beach, M.J. and Calderon R.L. (2000)
     Surveillance for waterborne-disease outbreaks--United States, 1997-1998.
     Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. CDC Surveillance Summaries 49
     (SS-4), 1-21.

Blasdall, S.A., Ongerth, J.E. and Ashbolt, N.J. (2001) Differentiation of
      Cryptosporidium parvum subtypes by a novel microsatellite-telomere
      PCR with PAGE. Proceedings of Cryptosporidium from Molecules to
      Disease, 7-12 October 2001. Esplanade Hotel Fremantle, Western
      Australia. Murdoch University, Perth.




                                         230
Caccio, S., Homan, W., Camilli, R., Traldi, G., Kortbeek, T. and Pozio, E.
      (2000) A microsatellite marker reveals population heterogeneity within
      human and animal genotypes of Cryptosporidium parvum. Parasitology
      120, 237-244.

Casemore, D.P. (1992) A pseudo-outbreak of cryptosporidiosis. Communicable
     Disease Report. CDR Review 2(6), R66-R67.

Chalmers, R.M., Elwin, K., Reilly, W.J., Irvine, H., Thomas, A.L. and Hunter,
     P.R. (2002a) Cryptosporidium in farmed animals: the detection of a novel
     isolate in sheep. International Journal of Parasitology 32, 21-26.

Chalmers, R.M., Elwin, K. and Thomas, A. (2002b) Unusual types of
     cryptosporidia are not restricted to immunocompromised patients.
     Journal of Infectious Diseases 185, 270-271.

Clark, D.P. (1999) New insights into human cryptosporidiosis. Clinical
      Microbiology Reviews 12, 554-63.

Deere, D., Stevens, M., Davison, A., Helm, G. and Dufour, A. (2001)
      Management Strategies. In: Water Quality: Guidelines, Standards and
      Health. Assessment of risk and risk management for water-related
      infectious disease. Fewtrell, L. and Bartram, J. (Eds.) IWA Publishing,
      London. pp. 257-288.

Divizia, M., Gnesivo, C., Bonapasta, R.A., Morace, G., Pisani, G. and Pana, A.
      (1993) Hepatitis A virus identification in an outbreak by enzymatic
      amplification. European Journal of Epidemiology 9, 203-208.

Elwin, K., Chalmers, R.M., Roberts, R., Guy, E.C. and Casemore, D.P. (2001)
      The modification of a rapid method for the identification of gene-specific
      polymorphisms in Cryptosporidium parvum, and application to clinical
      and epidemiological investigations. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 67, 5581-5584.

Farley, K.R.J., Rutherford, G., Litchfield, P., Hsu, S.T., Orenstein, W.A.,
      Schonberger, L.B., Bart, K.J., Lui, K.J. and Lin, C.C. (1984) Outbreak of
      paralytic poliomyelitis, Taiwan. Lancet ii,1322-1324.

Fayer, R., Morgan, U. and Upton, S.J. (2000) Epidemiology of
      Cryptosporidium: Transmission, detection and identification.
      International Journal for Parasitology 30, 1305-1322.



                                      231
Gasser, R.B. and O’Donoghue, P. (1999) Isolation, propagation and
      characterization of Cryptosporidium. International Journal for
      Parasitology 29, 1379-1413.

Gasser, R.B., Zhu, X.Q., Caccio, S., Chalmers, R., Widmer, G., Morgan, U.,
      Thompson, R.C.A., Pozio, E. and Browning, G.F. (2001) Genotyping
      Cryptosporidium parvum by single-strand conformation polymorphism
      analysis of ribosomal and heat shock gene regions. Electrophoresis 22,
      433-437.

Glaberman, S., Moore, J., Lowery, C., Chalmers, R.M., Elwin K., Rooney, P.,
      Millar, C., Dooley, J., Lal, A.A. and Xiao, L. (2001) Investigation of
      three drinking water associated outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis in
      Northern Ireland using genotyping and subgenotyping tools. American
      Society for Tropical Medicine and Hygiene meeting, Atlanta, GA.

Hinton, M. (1985) The sub-specific differentiation of Escherichia coli with
      particular reference to ecological studies in young animals including man.
      Journal of Hygiene 95, 595-609.

Hunter, P.R. (1991) A critical review of typing methods for Candida albicans
     and their applications. Critical Reviews in Microbiology 17, 417-34.

Hunter, P.R. (1997) Water-borne Disease: Epidemiology and Ecology. Wiley,
     Chichester.

Hunter, P.R. (2000a) Advice on the response to reports from public and
     environmental health to the detection of cryptosporidial oocysts in treated
     drinking water. Communicable Disease and Public Health 3, 24-27.

Hunter, P.R. (2000b) Modelling the impact of prior immunity, case
     misclassification and bias on case-control studies in the investigation of
     outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis. Epidemiology and Infection 125, 713-718.

Hunter, P.R. and Syed, Q. (2001) Community surveys of self-reported diarrhoea
     can dramatically overestimate the size of outbreaks of waterborne
     cryptosporidiosis. Water Science and Technology 43, 27-30.

Hunter, P.R. and Syed, Q. (2002) Recall bias in a community survey of self-
     reported gastroenteritis undertaken during an outbreak of
     cryptosporidiosis strongly associated with drinking water after much
     press interest. Epidemiology and Infection. In press



                                      232
Kramer, M.H., Herwaldt, B.L., Craun, G.F., Calderon, R.L. and Juranek, D.D.
     (1996a) Surveillance for waterborne-disease outbreaks - United States,
     1993-1994. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. CDC Surveillance
     Summaries 45(SS-1), 1-33.

Kramer, M.H., Herwaldt, B.L., Craun, G.F., Calderon, R.L. and Juranek, D.D.
     (1996b) Waterborne disease – 1993 and 1994. Journal of the American
     Water Works Association 88(3), 66-80.

Kukkula, M., Maunula, L., Silvennoinen, E. and v. Bonsdorff, C-H. (1999)
     Outbreak of viral gastroenteritis due to drinking water contaminated by
     Norwalk-like viruses. Journal of Infectious Disease 180, 1771-1776.

Leland, D., Acanulty, J., Keene, W. and Stevens, G. (1993) A cryptosporidiosis
      outbreak in a filtered-water supply. Journal of the American Water Works
      Association 85(6), 34-42.

Levy, D.A., Bens, M.S., Craun, G.F., Calderon, R.L. and Herwaldt, B.L. (1998)
      Surveillance for waterborne-disease outbreaks - United States, 1995-
      1996. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. CDC Surveillance
      Summaries 47(SS-5), 1-34.

Maunula, L., Piiparinen, H. and v. Bonsdorff C.-H. (1999) Confirmation of
    Norwalk-like virus amplicons after RT-PCR by microplate hybridization
    and direct sequencing. Journal of Virological Methods 83, 125-134.

Mayon-White, R.T. and Frankenberg, R.A. (1989) Boil the water. Lancet ii, 216

Mentzing, L.O. (1981) Waterborne outbreaks of Campylobacter enteritis in
     central Sweden. Lancet ii, 352-354.

Millson, M., Bokhout, M., Carlson, J., Speilberg, L., Aldis, R., Borczyk, A.Z.
      and Lior, H. (1991) An outbreak of Campylobacter jejuni gastroenteritis
      linked to meltwater contamination of a municipal well. Canadian Journal
      of Public Health 82, 27-31.

Moore, A.C., Herwaldt, B.L., Craun, G.F., Calderon, R.L., Highsmith, A.K. and
     Juranek, D.D. (1993) Surveillance for waterborne disease outbreaks -
     United States, 1991-1992. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. CDC
     Surveillance Summaries 42(SS-5), 1-22.




                                     233
Morgan, U.M., Xiao, L., Fayer, R., Lal, A.A. and Thompson, R.C.A. (1999)
     Variation in Cryptosporidium: towards a taxonomic revision of the genus.
     International Journal for Parasitology 29, 1733-1751.

Murray, C.J.L. (1994) Quantifying the burden of disease: the technical basis for
     disability-adjusted life years. Bulletin of the World Health Organization
     72(3), 429-445.

O’Donnell, M., Platt, C. and Aston, R. (2000) Effect of a boil water notice on
     behaviour in the management of a water contamination incident.
     Communicable Disease and Public Health 3, 56-59.

Patel, S., Pedraza-Diaz, S., McLauchlin, J. and Casemore, D.P. (1998)
       Molecular characterisation of Cryptosporidium parvum from two large
       suspected waterborne outbreaks. Communicable Disease and Public
       Health 1, 231-233.

Percival, S.L., Walker, J.T. and Hunter P.R. (2000) Microbiological Aspects of
      Biofilms and Drinking Water. CRC Press, Boca Raton.

Pitt, T.L. (1988) Epidemiological typing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
       European Journal of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases 7,
       238-247.

Prescott, A.M. and Fricker, C.R. (1999) Use of PNA oligonucleotides for the in
      situ detection of Escherichia coli in water. Molecular and Cellular
      Probes 13, 261-268.

Provost, P.J. and Hilleman, M.R. (1979) Propagation of human hepatitis A virus
     in cell culture in vitro. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 160, 213-221.

Ramsay, C.N. and Marsh, J. (1990) Giardiasis due to deliberate contamination
     of water supply. Lancet 336, 880-881.

Rollins, D.M. and Colwell, R.R. (1986) Viable but non-culturable stage of
      Campylobacter jejuni and its role in survival in the natural aquatic
      environment. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 52(3), 531-538.

Rose, J.B., Lisle, J.T. and LeChevallier, M. (1997) Waterborne
      cryptosporidiosis: Incidence, outbreaks and treatment strategies. In:
      Cryptosporidium and Cryptosporidiosis. Fayer, R. (Ed.) CRC Press,
      Boca Raton.



                                      234
Schmidt, K. (1995) WHO surveillance programme for control of foodborne
     infections and intoxications in Europe. Sixth report, 1990-92. BgVV,
     Berlin, p. 14.

Shaw, P.K., Brodsky, R.E., Lyman, D.O., Wood, B.T., Hibler, C.P., Healy,
     G.R., Macleod, K.I., Stahl, W. and Schultz, M.G. (1977) A community-
     wide outbreak of giardiasis with evidence of transmission by a municipal
     water supply. Annals of Internal Medicine 87, 426-432.

Stenström, T.A. (1994) A review of water-borne outbreaks of gastroenteritis in
      Scandinavia. In: Water and Public Health. Golding, A.M.B., Noah, N.
      and Stanwell-Smith, R. (Eds.) Smith-Gordon, London. pp.137-143.

Strong, W.B., Gut, J. and Nelson, R.G. (2000) Cloning and sequence analysis of
      a highly polymorphic Cryptosporidium parvum gene encoding a 60-
      kilodalton glycoprotein and characterization of its 15- and 45- kilodalton
      zoite surface antigen products. Infection and Immunity 68, 4117-4134.

Sulaiman, IM, Xiao, L., and Lal, A.A. (1999) Evaluation of Cryptosporidium
      parvum genotyping techniques. Applied and Environmental Microbiology
      65, 4431-4435.

Swerdlow, D.L., Mintz, E.D., Rodriguez et al. (1992) Severe life-threatening
     cholera in Peru: predisposition of persons with blood group O. Abstract
     941. Program, 32nd Interscience Antimicrobial Agent Chemotherapy
     Conference, 267.

Threlfall, E.J. and Frost, J.A. (1990) The identification, typing and
      fingerprinting of Salmonella: laboratory aspects and epidemiological
      applications. Journal of Applied Bacteriology 68, 5-16.

Vogt, R.L., Sours, H.E., Barrett, T., Feldman, R.A., Dickinson, R.J. and
      Witherell, L. (1982) Campylobacter enteritis associated with
      contaminated water. Annals of Internal Medicine 96, 292-296.

Wenner, H.A. (1982) The enteroviruses: recent advances. Yale Journal of
    Biology & Medicine 55, 277-82.

West, P.A. (1991) Human pathogenic viruses and parasites: emerging
      pathogens in the water cycle. Society for Applied Bacteriology
      Symposium Series 20, 107S-114S.




                                      235
Willocks, L.J., Sufi, F., Wall, R., Seng, C. and Swan, A.V. (2000) Compliance
      with advice to boil drinking water during an outbreak of
      cryptosporidiosis. Communicable Disease and Public Health 3, 137-138.

WHO (1999) Water and Health in Europe. World Health Organization
    Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen.

Xiao, L., Limor, J., Bern, C. and Lal, A.A. (2001) Tracking Cryptosporidium
      parvum by sequence analysis of small double-stranded RNA. Emerging
      Infectious Diseases 7, 141-145.




                                     236
                                   Chapter 8

         ANALYTICAL METHODS FOR MICROBIOLOGICAL
                  WATER QUALITY TESTING



W. Köster, T. Egli, N. Ashbolt, K. Botzenhart, N. Burlion, T. Endo, P. Grimont,
    E. Guillot, C. Mabilat, L. Newport, M. Niemi, P. Payment, A. Prescott,
                             P. Renaud and A. Rust




8.1      Introduction

      There is a wide range of microorganisms of interest in water quality
testing. Here we describe the general suite of methods currently used for the
major indicator organisms and many of the pathogens of concern.

     A fundamental limiting factor in the assessment of microbial quality of
waters, and especially drinking water, is often the very low number of each
organism present. Therefore, it is important to note that most microbiological
procedure consists of: concentration/enrichment, detection and quantification
(Table 8.1). A consequence of this multi-step approach is that technological
advancement of any one step (such as detection) while possibly revolutionary,
may be of limited value if the target group can not be satisfactorily concentrated
before being subjected to the detection system.

     This chapter is organised around the logical sequence of these method
steps and common approaches for different microbial groups are discussed in
one section. Emerging technologies are also presented, including the possible
automation of the complete method or part of it. Performance and validation of
methods and the statistical considerations behind choosing sample numbers are
examined. The chapter concludes with a summary tabulation of the major
methods along with their advantages and disadvantages and a list of
abbreviations.



                                       237
      Table 8.1. Example of the various method steps involved in the analysis of
                                   microorganisms

                                           Microbial groups
  Common
   method                 Viruses               Bacteria        Parasitic protozoa
 components
                                                                      Cartridge
Concentration       Adsorption-elution    Membrane filtration      filtration/IMS
                                                                     separation
                        Cell culture/
                                          Selective growth on      Immunological
  Detection/         cytopathic effect,
                                          agar, count colony       staining/count
 enumeration           count plaque
                                             forming units       fluorescent cysts
                       forming units
IMS: Immunomagnetic separation.



8.2        Recovery of target microorganisms

      Traditional approaches to the isolation of microbial indicators have relied
on various agar plate and liquid media methods. The basic pour plate technique
has a maximum sample volume of about 1 ml whereas the spread plate
technique uses 0.1 or 0.2 ml samples. For larger volume processing and rapid
throughput, however, the membrane filtration technique is preferred if
interfering particles are not concentrated simultaneously. Liquid cultivation
techniques, either for the detection of the target organism (presence/absence
test) or quantitatively, using multiple tube techniques and most probable
number (MPN) calculations, allow flexible sample volume range and the
handling of turbid samples. In liquid cultivation techniques, small volumes of
sample dilutions or up to ten litre samples can be used. The detection of target
microorganisms by non-cultivation methods is also presented for enteric viruses
and parasitic protozoa.


8.2.1      Filtration methods

    Bacteria are generally recovered on 47 mm diameter membrane filters with
porosities of 0.22 to 0.45 µm. Membrane filters may be incubated on solid
media, pads soaked in liquid media or as a MPN system in enrichment broth.

     Cysts of protozoan parasites can be recovered on similar membranes but
with larger surfaces (up to 293 mm diameter) and porosities as high as 2 µm
(Ongerth and Stibbs, 1987). For convenience, however, various cartridge filters



                                          238
are generally preferred to recover protozoan cysts from up to 100 l water
samples even in the presence of some turbidity (USEPA, 1999). The co-
concentration of non-target particulates can, in part, be removed by subsequent
selective separation method(s) (such as immunomagnetic separation (IMS),
gradient centrifugation or flow cytometry, outlined in sections 8.2.2, 8.2.4.2 and
8.2.5). In England and Wales treated water supplies (10 l samples) are,
however, analysed using compressed foam filters. Such sampling and
monitoring procedures have been specified in a number of documents published
by the UK Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI: http://www.dwi.gov.uk/regs/
crypto/index.htm). A French Standard has also come into force in 2001 (NF
T90-455, Publication date: 2001-07-01: Water quality Detection and
enumeration of Cryptosporidium oocysts and of Giardia cysts- Concentration
and Enumeration method) and an ISO is currently in preparation (ISO CD
15553 Water Quality-Isolation and Identification of Cryptosporidium Oocysts
and Giardia Cysts from Water).


8.2.1.1   Virus adsorption-elution methods

      A number of techniques have been described for the recovery of viruses by
approaches based on the filtration of test water through filter media to which the
phages/viruses adsorb. The phages/viruses are afterwards released from the
filter media into a small volume suitable for quantitative plaque assays or
presence/absence testing. The principle involved is that viruses/phages carry a
particular electrostatic charge that is predominantly negative at or near neutral
pH levels. This charge can be modified to predominantly positive by reducing
the pH level to about 3.5. At this pH level viruses/phages will adsorb to
negatively charged filter media. The balance involved is rather delicate because
the lower the pH the better the adsorption, but low pH levels inactivate
phages/viruses, and the sensitivity of different phages and viruses to low pH
levels differs. Hydrophobic interactions also seem to play a role in the
adsorption process (APHA, AWWA, WEF 1998). After adsorption, a small
volume of an organic solution at pH 9.5 or higher is passed through the filter to
reverse the charge on the viruses/phages to negative. This results in the release
of the viruses/phages and they can be detected by conventional methods.

     Bacterial viruses can also be retained by membrane filters under acidic
conditions in the presence of divalent or trivalent salts. Sobsey et al. (1990)
developed a relatively simple, inexpensive and practical procedure for the
recovery and detection of F-RNA coliphages using mixed cellulose nitrate and
acetate membrane filters for analysis of 100 to 2 000 ml volumes of tap water
and 100 to 300 ml volumes of surface water. The efficiency of recovery of
seeded F-RNA phages from 100 ml samples of tap water was 49%, which


                                       239
gradually decreased with increasing test volume to 12% for 2 000 ml. The
efficiency of recovery from 100 ml and 300 ml samples of surface water was
34% and 18%, respectively. Although the procedure has attractive features, it
should be weighed up against direct plaque assays on 100 ml samples, and
presence/absence tests on 500 ml samples, both of which have theoretical
efficiencies of 100% (Grabow et al., 1998). Test volumes of the latter assays
can be increased without loss of efficiency, as will be discussed later.
Nonetheless, negatively or positively charged cartridge filters of various
compositions remain the preferred approach for the concentration of viruses
(enteric or bacteriophages) from large volumes of water.

      Alternatively, filter media which carry a positive charge and hydrophobic
binding sites at neutral pH levels, may be used to sorb negatively-charged
viruses/phages at neutral pH levels (Sobsey and Glass, 1980). A variety of
membranes and filter systems is available, among the well known ones are
CUNO 1-MDS Virosorb and CUNO Zeta Plus 50-S or 60-S electropositive
filters and glass wool. Application of these and related positively-charged filters
in procedures with a wide variety of modifications and variations have been
used to recover enteric viruses and phages (Singh and Gerba, 1983; Goyal et al.
1987). Efficiencies in the recovery of the coliphages (MS2, ØX-174, T2 and
T4) from 17 litre volumes of tap water, sewage and lake water ranged between
34 - 100 % with positively charged Zeta Plus filters, however, MS2 appeared to
be poorly recovered (range 0.3-1.8 %) with glass wool (Grabow et al., 1998).

     Therefore, although poliovirus and related viruses are recovered to some
degree under certain conditions, evidence has been presented that phage
recovery may be poor, probably because of poor adsorption as well as
inactivation by exposure to the pH extremes required for adsorption and/or
elution (Seeley and Primrose, 1982; Grabow et al., 1998).


8.2.1.2   Ultrafiltration

     Ultrafiltration is based on the filtration of water through membranes of
polysulphonate or related material with a nominal molecular weight cut-off
limit of about 10 000 Daltons. Particles with a diameter of 0.02 µm or more fail
to pass through these membranes. Hence, dissolved organic molecules pass
through the pores of these membranes but viruses and phages are too large to do
so. It is, therefore, a process in which viruses are physically retained. Filter
systems include spiral wound and sheet membranes (against which the water is
kept in motion by means of a recirculating pump) or stirring apparatus (to
enhance the filtration rate and avoid clogging) and yield close to 100% recovery
(Grabow et al., 1993). Other commercially available systems consist of units in


                                       240
which filtration is enhanced by tangential flow through hollow fibres with a
large total filtration surface area, with some as disposable modules (described
for Cryptosporidium by Simmons et al., 2001).

      Advantages of ultrafiltration include high recovery efficiencies and
viruses/phages are not exposed to pH extremes or other unfavourable
conditions, which may affect their viability. Adsorption of viruses and phages to
the membranes is minimal, and this can be reduced by pretreatment of the
membranes with beef extract (Divizia et al., 1989) or 1-2% Tween 80, which
seems to block potential adsorption sites. The most important disadvantage is
that the membranes clog rapidly which implies that the volumes of water that
can be processes are restricted.


8.2.2     Immunocapture

      Direct immunomagnetic separation (IMS) techniques involve incubation of
magnetic beads that are coated with specific antibodies for a target organism
(see Box 8.1), in a mixture of the cell suspension (e.g. a water sample). After
incubation and efficient mixing of the particles with the sample, the target cells
become bound to the magnetic beads. The particles are then separated from the
rest of the suspension with the help of a magnetic particle separator and washed
several times.


                          Box 8.1. Immunology techniques

      A wide range of immunological methods, taking advantage of antibody-antigen
interactions, is available, among them the enzyme immunoassays (EIA). EIA methods
combine the specificity of antibody molecules with the amplification of antibody-antigen
interactions by enzyme catalysis. Different EIA methods exist. Many assays are
performed in the wells of microtitre plates in which the reactants are immobilised.
Antigen in the sample may or may not be bound by a specific antibody immobilized on
the surface (coating antibody). Direct assays employ specific antibody conjugated to
enzyme (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay - ELISA), whereas in indirect assays
(double antibody sandwich - DAS-ELISA) the antigen-specific detecting antibody is
detected by an anti-immunoglobulin enzyme conjugate. A number of DAS-ELISA
approaches take advantage of the strong interaction between biotin and avidin (or
streptavidin). Biotinylated antibodies are easily detected by using a streptavidin-enzyme
conjugate. The same conjugate may be used to detect a number of different antibodies.

    Immunoaffinity methods in combination with antibody coated magnetic
beads have been used to isolate a number of different organisms from water
samples, including hepatitis A virus (HAV), group A rotaviruses,
pseudomonads, E. coli O157:H7 and Cryptosporidium parvum. The isolation of


                                          241
bacteria from water can be improved using enrichment followed by IMS and
plating on selective agar. Moreover, magnetic beads coated with antibodies that
specifically recognise various surface exposed epitopes of a variety of target
organisms are already commercially available.

     A basic laboratory infrastructure would be an advantage but is not
absolutely necessary. The assays are easy to perform in a few hours. In addition,
purification “kits” based on the immunocapture principle exist for several
organisms. Although the technique is simple and fast, the efficiency of the
reaction relies on the specificity and affinity of the commercially available
monoclonal antibody and on the turbidity of the water sample. Immunocapture-
based methods can be used as sound basis for other detection techniques (such
as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR), flow cytometry and fluorescent in-situ hybridisation
(FISH), covered in Sections 8.2.5, 8.3.2.1 and 8.3.2.2).


8.2.3    Flocculation

      Relatively successful techniques are on record for the recovery of enteric
viruses from water by adsorption of viruses to flocculants such as aluminium
hydroxide (APHA, AWWA, WEF 1998). The process probably involves both
electrostatic interactions between the negatively charged virus surface and the
positively charged aluminium hydroxide surfaces and coordination of the virus
surface by hydroxo-aluminium complexes. Flocs are generally recovered by
centrifugation or filtration. The flocs are then disintegrated by vigorous shaking
and the viruses recovered by centrifugation (APHA,AWWA,WEF, 1998). The
procedure is suitable for the recovery of viruses from relatively small volumes
(several litres of water). This has been confirmed in tests using ammonium
sulphate supplemented with beef extract for flocculation which yielded
efficiencies of recovery of up to 85% for phages MS2, ØX174 and T3 (Shields
and Farrah, 1986). Modifications of the procedure include magnetic organic
flocculation, in which casein flocs are formed in the presence of magnetite for
subsequent collection of the flocs by means of a magnet. The recovery of
coliphages from waste- and lake water by this procedure has been described
(Kennedy et al., 1985).

     A method for the concentration of particles in the Cryptosporidium oocyst
size range from water has been developed based on the calcium carbonate
flocculation (crystallisation) (Vesey et al., 1993). An aliquot volume of water
sample is treated by adding solutions of calcium chloride and sodium
bicarbonate and raising the pH value to ten with sodium hydroxide, resulting in
the formation of crystals of calcium carbonate, which enmesh particles. The


                                       242
crystals are allowed to settle, the supernatant fluid is discarded and the calcium
carbonate precipitate is dissolved in sulphamic acid. This process yields
reproducibly high recovery rates. It has, however, been suggested that the
oocysts may not be used for the viability test because solution of the calcium
carbonate with sulphamic acid has been reported to affect viability measured by
fluorescent dye exclusion (Campbell et al., 1994).


8.2.4      Centrifugation

8.2.4.1    Continuous flow centrifuge

     The most common separation method is that of differential centrifugation
(pelleting) using either a swinging bucket or a fixed angle rotor. However, this
conventional method is limited to small volumes of water. For harvesting
microbes to be tested from source and drinking waters, continuous flow rotors
are preferred as they allow efficient processing of large volumes of water in a
single run regardless of turbidity of the sample water.

      The basic instrument is a continuous flow rotor in combination with a
refrigerated centrifuge and a simple peristaltic pump. Continuous flow
experiments are normally carried out in the cold in order to avoid heating the
particle concentrate. In practice, sample water is pumped in continuously
through the centreline of the seal assembly of the rotor while it is spinning at
operating speed. The sample flows along the bottom of the core and moves over
the centripetal surface of a solution. The centrifugal separation therefore
accounts for two fractions:

 •      A sedimenting particle that moves out into the rotor cavity.
 •      A supernatant fraction that continues to flow along the core and over the
        centripetal surface of the water, then out of the rotor via the outlet lines.

     The sample particles are allowed to pellet on the rotor wall.

     The continuous flow centrifuges currently commercially available are large
and stationary, and are not suited to concentrating water samples on site.
Recently, a compact, continuous flow centrifuge with disposable plastic bowls
(a modified blood component separation system) has been applied to the
concentration of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts from large
volumes of water. The robustness and accuracy of this system has not yet been
fully examined and further experiments are also needed to examine the




                                         243
reproducibility and ease of recovery of the microbes from the disposable plastic
bowl.


8.2.4.2   Gradient density separation/isolation

     A centrifugation technique is also commonly used for separation/isolation
of microbes, such as Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts, from particle
concentrates. In this case, a density gradient within a medium is centrifuged,
separating microbes/particles from a thick mixture based on their specific
density. The density gradient method involves a supporting column of fluid
(such as sucrose or Percoll) where the density increases either zonally or
linearly toward the bottom of the tube. If the density gradient column
encompasses the whole range of densities of the sample particles, each particle
will settle only to the position in the centrifuge tube at which the gradient
density is equal to its own density. Thus, resulting in the separation of particles
into zones solely on the basis of their density differences, although with
environmental samples, the density gradient centrifugation step may lead to
more than 30% losses with oocysts or cysts.

      It is sometimes easier to start with a uniform solution of the sample and the
gradient material such as a self-generating caesium chloride gradient for virus
purification. Under the influence of centrifugal force, the material redistributes
in the tube so as to form the required density gradient. Meanwhile, sample
particles, which are initially distributed throughout the tube, sediment or float to
their isopycnic positions. The target microbes can be recovered by removing the
required density zone from the centrifuge tube. Development of density
markers, which can be mixed in a particle concentrate prior to centrifugation
should easily differentiate the zone to be collected.


Biohazard

     Concentration or separation of pathogenic materials by preparative
centrifugation is deemed a biohazard. Extreme precautions must be taken when
such samples are used because of the possibility of seal leakage or rotor
mishaps. There is no standard method for decontaminating rotors exposed to
pathogenic materials. Rotors should be cleaned with appropriate detergents
and/or disinfectants according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The widely
used method is autoclaving and most commercially available rotors can be
autoclaved, although the instruction manuals should always be consulted to
ascertain any specific handling requirements.



                                        244
8.2.5    Flow cytometry

      Flow cytometry is a technology in which a variety of measurements can be
made on particles, cells, bacteria and other objects suspended in a liquid. In a
flow cytometer, particles are made to flow one at a time through a light beam
(laser beam) in a sensing region of a flow chamber. They are characterised by
light scattering based on their size, shape and density and also on the dyes that
are used either independently or bound to specific antibodies or
oligonucleotides that endow a fluorescent phenotype onto components of
interest. As a particle flows through the beam, both light scattered by the
particle and fluorescence light from the labelled particle is collected either by a
photomultiplier or photodiode in combination with light splitters (dicroic
mirrors) and filters. This makes it possible to make multiple simultaneous
measurements (up to six parameters) on a particle. A solid phase laser scanning
analyser might be an alternative for the flow cytometry technology, though it is
still in its infancy. In the latter system, the fluorescent dye-stained samples
loaded on a membrane filter are scanned by a laser beam, and fluorescence
emitted from the dye attached to the target particle is similarly measured.

      For the concentration of target organisms, a flow cytometer with the
additional capacity to selectively sort (such as fluorescently activated cell
sorting [FACS]) any selected particle from the suspension can be used. The
ability to sort particles is an important feature for environmental microbiology
since it makes it possible to collect presumptive organisms and to confirm
results by, for example, visual examination. However, incorporation of a sorting
unit into the system not only doubles the cost of the basic instruments but is also
problematic for the development of the automatic monitoring system.
Alternatively, additional detection parameters, such as dual staining with a
second monoclonal antibody can be used to determine that both antibodies are
binding an authentic target organism. This results in an increase in sensitivity of
the detection method to such a degree that nonsorting detection (analyser only
mode) is possible, although this has yet to be applied in routine practice (Vesey
et al., 1994).

     A particularly valuable aspect of flow cytometry is its capability of rapid
analysis: the assay itself can be completed within three to five minutes. This is
likely to be one of the key devices for the routine multiple monitoring of
microbes of interest (including a variety of indicator or pathogenic microbes
and even viable but non-culturable bacteria). Although the applicability of this
system is very broad, the current application of flow cytometry for monitoring
of drinking water is limited (Deere et al., 2002).




                                       245
     The basic instrument is the flow cytometer, which requires a skilled
operator. The main consumables (in cost terms) are primarily (monoclonal)
antibodies. The first and foremost problem, affecting the use of flow cytometry
technology in this field is the high capital cost.

     The technological limitation of this system is the number of dye
combinations that can be used, where the combinations of excitation and
emission spectra must be significantly different. The number and variety of
specific labelling reagents will be another limitation of the system. Availability
of commercial kits is expected to increase the use of this technique in many
research fields including safe drinking water. In addition, most of the
pathogenic microbes to be measured occur in drinking water at very low
concentrations. When a negative sample is analysed no particles should be
detected and a sample seeded with an aliquot of organisms should have an exact
number of particles added. However, at present, it is difficult to obtain this level
of sensitivity. Often a negative sample will contain some particles due to non-
specific binding of antibodies to some interfering particles found in water
samples, no matter how specific the antibody is.


Biohazard

      Handling of the particle concentrate to be measured and the effluent from
the flow cytometer is deemed to be a biohazard. Effluents must be autoclaved
before discarding. The cytometer can be decontaminated (disinfected) between
samples and at the end of the run by running 10% sodium hypochlorite (bleach
solution) for 30 seconds and detergent solution for two minutes followed by a
distilled water flush.


8.2.6     Pre-enrichment and enrichment techniques

     As outlined in Chapter 2, detection and enumeration of index and indicator
parameters rather than the search for specific pathogenic bacteria is used in
routine bacteriological analysis of water. Nevertheless, under special
circumstances the search for pathogenic bacteria may be necessary, e.g. during
an epidemic (see Chapter 7) or when evaluating new water resources (WHO,
1984). Typically the number of pathogenic microorganisms is low (Emde et al.,
1992) and their recovery is low because they are in a stressed conditions.
Therefore, the chances of detecting pathogenic bacteria will be greater by using
a pre-enrichment step prior to enrichment and selective plating. This allows
environmentally stressed organisms to recover and grow before selective
pressures are applied. Generally, pre-enrichment media contain no antibiotics or


                                        246
other selective agents and this allows the growth of most microorganisms in the
sample. Subsequent inoculation into enrichment media selects for the pathogen
of interest, which can be detected by plating onto solid selective media. It
should also be pointed out that this limits the ability to later quantify the
pathogens in the sample (Ericksen and Dufour, 1986). Table 8.2 is based on the
principles described above. Note that cell culture enrichment of viruses and
phages is also used prior to detection by plaque assay (Grabow et al., 1998) or
PCR (as cell culture-PCR).

     Table 8.2. Procedures for the pre-enrichment and enrichment of bacterial
                          pathogens using liquid media

Organisms                     Enrichment conditions              Reference
Yersinia enterocolitica       “Cold enrichment” at 15°C in       Schiemann (1990)
                              peptone-yeast extract broth.
                              Selective medium, alkaline bile-   Schiemann (1990)
                              oxalate-sorbose broth, pH 7.6.
Salmonella spp.               Pre-enrichment in buffered         WHO (1984)
                              peptone water, then enrichment
                              in, e.g. selenite-containing
                              broth.
Shigella spp.                 Enrichment medium,                 WHO (1984)
                              e.g. alkaline nutrient broth pH
                              8.0.
Cholera and non-cholera       Enrichment medium, alkaline        WHO (1984)
Vibrios                       peptone water, or taurocholate
                              tellurite peptone water.
Legionella spp.               Selective medium, charcoal         States et al. (1990)
                              yeast extract base amended
                              with selected antibiotics.

8.2.7      Other techniques

8.2.7.1    Hydro-extraction

     This procedure is based on placing a water sample into a cellulose dialysis
bag, which is exposed to hygroscopic material such as polyethylene glycol
(PEG). The PEG extracts water and micro-solutes through the semipermeable
membrane while viruses and other macrosolutes remain inside. The procedure is
recommended as an option for the recovery of viruses from small volumes of
water, not more than a few hundred millilitres (APHA, AWWA, WEF 1998).
The method may also be suitable for phages and has been used to recover
cyanophages from ponds (Padan et al., 1967).



                                          247
8.2.7.2   Solvent-extraction

    Solvent extraction is often applied as the initial step in separating viruses
from solids, prior to polyethylene glycol precipitation, chromatography and
guanidinium isothiocyanate (GIT) extraction (Shieh et al., 1997).


8.3       Detection, identification and quantification of microorganisms

     This section describes the more “classical” methods, which depend largely
on cultivation techniques, as well as molecular methods. A number of them,
particularly most of the recent techniques require standardisation and validation.
Nonetheless, the majority of the methods presented here have already proven to
be useful in drinking water microbiology and/or medical diagnostics, or display
great potential.

     In the detection, identification and quantification of target organisms some
approaches are solely based on a single technique whereas other strategies take
advantage of a combination of different methods. For example, to identify
Escherichia coli reliance can be placed on a one-day-cultivation on
chromogenic media. Alternatively, in a much faster approach, short pre-
cultivation on an artificial medium can be combined with labelling using
fluorescent probes, microscopy, and laser scanning techniques (section 8.4.1).

     In the following sub-sections, alternative approaches are offered for a
number of target organisms. The traditional cultivation techniques are usually
sensitive but the identification is often not as reliable as might be desired.
Methods based on molecular biology tend to be sensitive and yield reliable
identification, but cultivation techniques always show viable organisms whereas
molecular methods often reveal dead or inactivated target organisms/nucleic
acid. This is of relevance in disinfected waters and should be considered in the
interpretation of results.


8.3.1     Cultivation techniques

8.3.1.1   Cultivation of bacteria

      It has long been recognised that culture media lead to only a very small
fraction (0.01 – 1 %) of the viable bacteria present being detected (Watkins and
Xiangrong, 1997). Since MacConkey's development of selective media for
E. coli and coliforms at the beginning of the 20th century, various workers have
shown these selective agents inhibit environmentally or oxidatively stressed


                                       248
coliforms (McFeters et al., 1986). Specially developed media without selective
detergent agents (e.g. the m-T7 medium of LeChevallier et al., 1982) permit a
significant improvement in the recovery of stressed target bacteria. In addition,
peroxides and superoxides are generated through auto-oxidation and
photochemical reactions during the process of preparing, sterilising and storage
of selective media (Lee and Hartman, 1989). Stressed cells have reduced
catalase activity (Calabrese and Bissonnette, 1990) and are subject to additional
stress once placed on selective media. Coupled with this is the accumulation of
toxic hydrogen peroxide generated by aerobic respiration. Media without harsh
selective agents have, therefore, taken over from the traditional approach (Hurst
et al., 2001).

     Each of the cultivation techniques has a particular detection range
depending on the sample volume. Whereas the lower detection limit depends on
the maximum sample volume that can be processed, the upper limit can be
freely chosen by selection of the dilution of the sample assayed. The
measurement uncertainty related to each cultivation technique and statistical
considerations based on Poisson distribution of target organisms in the sample
have been described in documents produced by the Technical Committee on
Water Quality of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO/TC
147/SC 4/WG 12).

      The presence/absence test is sometimes used to monitor high quality
samples where the presence of the target organism is improbable. It yields no
information on the contamination level if a positive result is observed. The
sensitivity of this technique depends on the sample volume analysed and the
precision on the number of samples analysed in parallel at each dilution step.
When using enough replicates good precision can be achieved. Computer
programs now available for the calculation of MPN, give freedom to optimise
the design without the restrictions of fixed MPN tables (Gonzales, 1996). In the
techniques based on colony counting, the precision increases with increasing
total number of colonies counted from replicate plates and from different
dilutions. High densities of colonies on plates can cause overlap error and the
interference of non-target colonies also limits the number of colonies to be
reliably counted from one plate. Therefore, the upper working limit for a plate
in colony counting techniques depends on the method (selectivity and
distinction of the target), the target organism (size of target colonies), and the
sample (background growth). In all of the enumeration techniques, the
cultivation conditions are selected to promote the multiplication of the target
organisms while simultaneously inhibiting the growth of other organisms. The
balance between sensitivity and selectivity is the reason for different methods or
sample processing for drinking water and highly contaminated waters.



                                       249
     Table 8.3 summarises the advantages and disadvantages of the commonly
used cultivation techniques.

                Table 8.3. Established cultivation techniques

  Technique               Advantages                          Disadvantages
Most probable   •   Flexible sample volume range     •   In routine application, when
number (MPN)                                             few replicates are used, the
using liquid    •   Applicable to all kinds of           precision is often low
media               samples
                                                     •   Confirmation steps involving
                •   Allows resuscitation and             new cultivations are usually
                    growth of injured organisms          needed, which increase costs
                •   Usually easy interpretation of       and time
                    test results and no special      •   When the selectivity of the
                    skills required                      medium is not adequate, the
                •   Minimal time and effort              target organisms can be
                    needed to start the test             masked due to the growth of
                                                         other microorganisms
                •   The precision and sensitivity
                    can be chosen by selection of    •   Sample may contain
                    volumes analysed, number of          inhibitors affecting the growth
                    dilution levels and number of        of the target organisms
                    replicate tubes                  •   For the isolation of pure
                •   Media often inexpensive              cultures, further cultivation on
                                                         solid media is necessary
                                                     •   If big sample volumes are
                                                         studied costs of media
                                                         increase and large space for
                                                         incubation is needed
Presence/       •   As above                         •   As above
absence test
using liquid                                         •   No information on level of
media                                                    concentration of target
                                                         organisms
Pour plate      •   Simple and inexpensive           •   The sample volume analysed
                    method                               routinely is a maximum of 1
                                                         ml
                                                     •   Thermal shock, caused when
                                                         melted agar is poured on the
                                                         sample, inhibits sensitive
                                                         organisms
                                                     •   Scoring of typical colonies not
                                                         easy




                                        250
               Table 8.3. Established cultivation techniques (continued)

   Technique                  Advantages                          Disadvantages
Spread plate        •   Strictly aerobic organism are     •   The sample volume analysed
                        favoured because colonies             routinely is a maximum of 0.1
                        grow on the agar surface              ml
                        (unless anaerobic conditions
                        are applied)                      •   Scoring of typical colonies not
                                                              always easy
                    •   Differentiation of the colonies
                        is easier than from pour
                        plates
Membrane            •   Flexible sample volume range      •   Quality of membranes varies
filtration              enabling the use of large
                        sample volume and therefore       •   Solid particles and chemicals
                        increased sensitivity                 adsorbed from sample to the
                                                              membrane during filtration
                    •   Water soluble impurities              may interfere with the growth
                        interfering with the growth of        of the target organism
                        target organisms separated
                        from the sample in the            •   Not applicable to turbid
                        filtration step                       samples

                    •   Quantitative result and good      •   Scoring of typical colonies not
                        precision if the number of            always easy
                        colonies grown adequate
                    •   Further cultivation steps not
                        always needed, which lowers
                        the costs and time needed for
                        the analysis
                    •   When confirmation is needed,
                        isolation from well separated
                        colonies on membrane is
                        easy
Liquid              •   Liquid enrichment in              •   Many cultivation steps
enrichment +            favourable media and                  increase costs of media,
confirmation            incubation temperature allows         labour, skills needed and
and/or isolation        resuscitation of injured or           duration of the test
on solid media          stressed cells
                    •   Streaking of a portion of
                        enrichment culture on an agar
                        medium allows isolation of
                        separate colonies
                    •   Differentiation and preliminary
                        identification is possible on
                        selective solid media
                    •   Detection and identification of
                        organisms occurring in low
                        numbers possible
                        (e.g. Salmonella)



                                            251
Chromogenic media-based detection methods

     Media without harsh selective agents, but specific enzyme substrates allow
significant improvements in recoveries and identification of target bacteria. In
the case of coliforms and E. coli, such so-called ‘defined substrate methods’
were introduced by Edberg et al. (1991). This has evolved into the Colilert®
technique and has been shown to correlate very well with the traditional
membrane filter and MPN methods when used to test freshwater (Fricker et al.,
1997; Eckner, 1998). A number of such enzyme-based methods, allowing
quantification within 24 hours is now available, including:

 •   Enterolert®, manufactured by IDEXX.
 •   Colisure® manufactured by IDEXX.
 •   Colilert®, manufactured by IDEXX.
 •   m-ColiBlue®, manufactured by Hach.
 •   ColiComplete®, manufactured by BioControl.
 •   Chromocult®, manufactured by Merck.
 •   MicroSure®, manufactured by Gelman.

     The Colilert® method is based upon the sample turning yellow, indicating
coliforms with β-galactosidase activity on the substrate ONPG (O-nitrophenyl-
β-D-galactopyranoside), and fluorescence under long-wavelength UV light
when the substrate MUG (5-methylumbelliferyl-β-D-glucuronide) is
metabolised by E. coli containing β-glucuronidase. The analytical method
involves adding commercial dried indicator nutrients containing the two defined
substrates to a 100 ml volume of water and incubation at 35-37°C (APHA,
AWWA, WEF 1998). The result is either presence/absence testing in the 100 ml
volume or quantification in a proprietary tray (QuantiTray™) which separates
the sample into a series of test wells and provides a most probable number per
100 ml of water.

     Table 8.4 shows some regularly used chromogenic substances available for
the detection of indicator bacteria.




                                      252
       Table 8.4. Examples of chromogenic substrates for the detection of
                               indicator bacteria

                            (Adapted from Manafi, 1996)

       Bacteria              Chromogenic substance              Enzyme tested
                                o-nitrophenyl-β-D-
                            galactopyranoside (ONPG)
                              6-bromo-2-naphtyl-β-D-           β-D-galactosidase
   Coliform bacteria
                                galactopyranoside                (E.C.3.2.1.23)
                          5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-
                            galactopyranoside (XGAL)
                          5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-
                               glucuronide (XGLUC)
                             4-methylumbelliferyl-β-D-         β-D-glucuronidase
        E. coli
                                glucuronide (MUG)             (GUD) (E.C.3.2.1.31)
                           p-nitrophenol-β-D-glucuronide
                                      (PNPG)
                         4-methylumbelliferyl-β-D-glucoside
                                     (MUD)                      β-D-glucosidase
      Enterococci
                                                              (β-GLU) (E.C.3.2.21)
                               indoxyl-β-D-glucoside



      A major concern with any assay based on enzyme activity, is the
interference that can be caused by the presence of other bacteria. In addition, the
use of β-galactosidase in coliform detection has other disadvantages, as the
enzyme can be found in numerous organisms (including Enterobacteriaceae,
Vibrionaceae, Pseudomonadaceae and Neisseriaceae, several Gram-positives,
yeasts, protozoa and fungi).

      β-glucuronidase activity although produced by most E. coli strains is also
produced by other Enterobacteriaceae including some Shigella, Salmonella,
Yersinia, Citrobacter, Edwardia and Hafnia strains. The presence of this
enzyme in Flavobacterium spp., Bacteroides spp., Staphylococcus spp.
Streptococcus spp., anaerobic corynebacteria and Clostridium has also been
reported. This could lead to the detection of a number of false positive
organisms. On the other hand, some strains of E. coli (among them pathogenic
strains) cannot be detected with this technique since they are (phenotypically)
β-glucuronidase negative. Nonetheless, the above problems generally result in
fewer errors than traditional cultivation-based methods.




                                        253
8.3.1.2   Cultivation in host cells


Cultivation of phages

     Numbers of phages are generally determined by direct quantitative plaque
assays, the principles of which were designed by Adams (1959). Basically, soft
agar is mixed with a suitable volume of the water under investigation and a
culture of the host bacterium of choice at a temperature just above the
solidification temperature of the agar. This mixture is poured on top of a bottom
agar in a conventional 90 mm diameter Petri dish, yielding what is called a
double agar layer (DAL) assay. The plates are incubated and plaques scored the
following day. In tests on waters containing high numbers of bacteria (which
may interfere with the host strain and the visibility of plaques) antibiotics such
as nalidixic acid may be added to the agar medium and a resistant host strain is
used.

     A significant limitation of DAL methods is that only approximately 1 ml
of test water can be used per 9 cm Petri dish. The quantitative detection of
phages in numbers below the detection limit of direct plaque assays is,
therefore, carried out by direct plaque assays using large Petri dishes, or the
recovery of phages from large volumes of water followed by conventional
plaque assays on the concentrates. Small numbers of phages in large volumes of
water may also be detected by qualitative enrichment procedures.


Cultivation of viruses

      The detection of viruses following the concentration step is performed in
flat-bottom stationary flasks/wells or in rotating test tubes (roll-tubes)
containing specific cell lines. Viruses are thus counted as plaques (clearings) in
solid monolayers of cells, as tissue culture for 50% infective dose (TCID50) or
most probable number (MPN) in liquid suspensions (Payment, 2001).

     Monolayer Plaque Assay: The cultivable enteroviruses produce a
characteristic cytopathic effect and some can also produce visible plaques under
a solid nutrient overlay. For the detection of plaque-forming enteroviruses, the
plaque assay has been widely used. It has the advantage of providing results for
rapidly growing viruses and can provide an isolated plaque (the equivalent of a
bacterial colony), which can be picked up and contains a single virus type useful
for virus identification and propagation. Disadvantages include under estimating
the number of slow-growing viruses and not being able to detect those that are
not plaque-producing.


                                       254
      A draft European Committee for Standardisation document
(CEN/TC230/WG3/TG4) describes the monolayer plaque assay for enterovirus
as follows: Confluent monolayer of Buffalo Green Monkey (BGM) cells in
flasks or cell culture grade dishes are inoculated with the sample and incubated
for one hour at 37°C (+/- 1.5°C). Excess sample is removed and an overlay
medium containing agar and neutral red is added and allowed to set. After
incubation pale areas of cell death (plaques) develop and are counted up to
seven days. The cytopathic effect is localised because the agar will only allow
spread of virus from cell to cell and neutral red is only taken up by living cells.
It is assumed that a plaque is the progeny of a single virus infectious unit and
they are referred to as plaque forming units (pfu). The number of pfu in the
original sample can be calculated, utilising whole or part of the sample
concentrate in multiple assays.

     Liquid overlay assays: Slow-growing and non-plaque producing
enteroviruses as well as viruses from the other groups (adenoviruses, reoviruses,
hepatitis A, rotaviruses, etc.) replicate in cells but do not always produce any
microscopic changes. To increase the probability of finding the viruses, one,
two or even three passages incubated for seven to 14 days increase the
probability of virus detection by allowing several cycles of replication. These
techniques, under liquid nutrient medium can be performed in a macro-
technique (tubes or flasks) or, more commonly, in a micro-technique (multiwell
plates: 96, 24, 12, six or four wells). The number of inoculated tubes or wells
determines the precision of the assay. When testing samples with a probable
low number of viruses, a small number of flasks with a large surface area is
preferable in order to maximise isolation and reduce the required labour time.
The assay relies on various detection methods to enumerate the viruses in the
original samples, including:

 •    Cytopathic effect (microscopy).
 •    Immunofluorescence (with specific or group antisera).
 •    Immunoperoxidase (with specific or group antisera).
 •    Molecular methods (PCR, hybridisation, etc.).
 •    Detection of virions in the supernatant by electron microscopy.
 •    ELISA methods (specific for one or more viruses).

    Examples of frequently used cell lines are: MA 104, BGM-Fl, BGM-H,
RD, Frhk 4, HFS, HEP, Vero, CaCo-2.




                                        255
Cultivation of protozoa in cell culture

      In contrast to most bacteriological and virological assays, parasitological
(protozoological) samples do not incorporate an enrichment step based on in
vitro cultivation of the captured organisms in general. Improved in vitro assays
for Cryptosporidium parvum have been developed to demonstrate the infectivity
of the parasite. The majority of the life cycle can be completed in tissue culture
but the production of new oocyst numbers is low and usually less than that used
for the inoculum.

      The methods for the cultivation of C. parvum may serve as an example for
other protozoa (such as Toxoplasma gondii, Isospora belli, Cyclospora
cayetanensis and various genera of Microsporidia). A variety of cell lines
(e.g. CaCo-2 cells, bovine fallopian tube epithelial cells, Mardin Darby Bovine
Kidney cells, HCT-8 cells) are currently in use for the cultivation of C. parvum
(Slifko et al., 1997; Gasser and Donaghue, 1999). One typical cultivation
method is outlined below. C. parvum oocysts are treated with 10% bleach (5.2%
sodium hypochlorite, or the sporozoites freshly recovered by the process of the
excystation) and plated onto HCT-8 cells grown to approximately 60 to 80%
confluency in a 5% CO2 atmosphere at 37°C. Oocyst formation can be detected
three days after inoculation. Propagation in cell cultures may be used in
combination with polymerase chain reaction (see Box 8.3) for the detection of
infectious oocysts, however, it requires specific staff training and experience
and special equipment.


Cultivation of protozoa on artificial media

     Artificial culture media for both Entamoeba histolytica and Giardia
lamblia have been developed and used for diagnosis in the medical field.
Historically, these lumen-dwelling protozoa have been grown in culture media
with and without one or more of the microorganisms with which they are
associated in their normal habitat within the hosts (xenic culture). Cultivation
techniques so far developed are not quantitative and have never been
successfully applied to environmental samples.


8.3.1.3   Standardisation of methods

    Established standard methods are available, e.g. those of the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), the European Committee for
Standardisation (CEN) and the American Public Health Association (APHA).
Methods for the detection and enumeration of indicator bacteria and some


                                          256
pathogenic or opportunistic bacteria are so widely needed that international
standardisation is well underway. Table 8.5 outlines the state of the art of
international standardisation of microbiological methods relevant for drinking
water analysis.




                                     257
                  Table 8.5. International standardisation of methods for microbiological drinking water analyses

                            ISO numbers refer to a published standard, () standard proposal not yet published
                                                 or [] published standard under revision

                                            Culturing technique, medium/media and
      Target organisms     ISO standard                                                                    Observations
                                                           incubation
      Coliform bacteria,   [ISO 9308-1]    Membrane filtration on a selective medium;       Poor selectivity; target colonies difficult to
                                          incubation (after resuscitation) at 36°C for 1                        score
       Thermotolerant                          day (coliforms) or at 44°C for 1 day
         coliforms,                        (thermotolerant coliforms); for confirmation
       Escherichia coli                        of coliforms subculturing for lactose
                                          fermentation and gas production at 36°C for
                                            2 days; for confirmation of thermotolerant
                                          coliforms subculture for lactose fermentation
                                            and gas production at 44°C for 1 day; for




258
                                          confirmation of E. coli subculturing for indole
                                           production at 44°C for 1 day is additionally
                                                        needed; oxidase test
      Coliform bacteria,   [ISO 9308-2]      Liquid culturing in a selective medium;       A choice from several selective media is
                                                incubation at 36°C for 2 days; for      allowed in this outdated standard; revision is
       Thermotolerant                     confirmation (gas production) subculturing in   delayed due to lack of validation data on
         coliforms,                       BGBB at 36°C for 2 days for coliforms and in different media, coliforms as the target group
       Escherichia coli                         EC medium at 44°C for 1 day for              taxonomically too heterogenic; time-
                                           thermotolerant coliforms, and additionally       consuming enumeration; material not
                                            testing for indole production at 44°C for       expensive but labour costs significant
                                                       1 day; oxidase test
            Table 8.5. International standardisation of methods for microbiological drinking water analyses (continued)

                                          Culturing technique, medium/media and
      Target organisms     ISO standard                                                                 Observations
                                                        incubation
      Faecal enterococci    ISO 7899-2    Membrane filtration on m-enterococcus agar,     Ecology of the target group should be re-
                                             incubation at 36°C for 2 days; in situ        evaluated due to new taxonomy; time
                                          aesculin hydrolysis test on BEAA at 44°C for     consuming enumeration; material not
                                                             2 hours                                      expensive
      Faecal enterococci   [ISO 7899-1]    Cultivation in liquid medium, azide glucose    Ecology of the target group should be re-
                                           broth, incubation at 36°C for 1 and 2 days;     evaluated due to new taxonomy; time
                                           subculturing on BEAA at 44°C for 2 days;        consuming enumeration; material not
                                                            catalase test                                 expensive
      Sulphite-reducing    [ISO 6461-2]    Normal or modified membrane filtration on        Pasteurisation of the sample enhances
      clostridia, spores                     sulphite-iron or tryptose-sulphite agar     spore germination as well as their selection
                                            anaerobically at 37°C for 1 and 2 days        by killing vegetative cells; the target group




259
                                                                                           poorly defined; material costs increase if
                                                                                                     anaerobic jars are used
      Sulphite-reducing    [ISO 6461-1]    Liquid culturing in DRCM anaerobically at       Pasteurisation of the sample enhances
      clostridia, spores                                 37°C for 2 days                 spore germination as well as their selection
                                                                                          by killing vegetative cells; the target group
                                                                                            poorly defined; material not expensive
        Pseudomonas        [ISO 8360-2]   Membrane filtration on Drake’s medium 19,      Atypical isolates should be further identified;
         aeruginosa                           incubation at 37°C for 2 days; for            material not expensive but labour costs
                                           confirmation subculturing on milk agar at      significant; revision carried out within CEN
                                          42°C for 1 day (growth, casein hydrolysis,
                                                 fluorescence and pyocyanine)
            Table 8.5. International standardisation of methods for microbiological drinking water analyses (continued)

                                          Culturing technique, medium/media and
      Target organisms     ISO standard                                                                  Observations
                                                        incubation
        Pseudomonas        [ISO 8360-1]     Liquid culturing in Drake’s medium 10 at      Atypical isolates should be further identified;
         aeruginosa                             37°C for 2 days; for confirmation           material not expensive but labour costs
                                           subculturing on milk agar at 42°C for 1 day                      significant
                                          (growth, casein hydrolysis, fluorescence and
                                                           pyocyanine)
      Legionella species    ISO 11731        Spread plating on GVPC medium with              With and without sample pretreatment;
                                          antibiotics at 36°C for 10 days; subculturing   background growth interferes; antibiotics and
                                          on BYCE and BCYE-cys; serological testing               identification increase costs
                                            of isolates growing on BYCE but not on
                                            BCYE-cys ; identification by fatty acids,
                                             isoprenoid quinones, indirect or direct




260
                                          immunofluorescent antibody assay, slide or
                                            latex bead agglutination, genus-specific
                                             monoclonal antibody or enzyme-linked
                                                      immunosorbent assay
      Legionella species     (ISO/DIS      A screening method based on membrane
                             11731-2)                     filtration
            Table 8.5. International standardisation of methods for microbiological drinking water analyses (continued)

                                          Culturing technique, medium/media and
      Target organisms     ISO standard                                                                   Observations
                                                        incubation
      Salmonella species    [ISO 6340]    Liquid pre-enrichment in buffered peptone           S. typhi needs another pre-enrichment
                                             water at 36°C for 1 day, enrichment in           medium; time and many media needed
                                            modified Rappaport-Vassiliadis broth at                    which increases costs
                                              42°C for 1 day, selection on brilliant
                                          green/phenol red lactose and xylose lysine
                                            deoxycholate agar at 36°C for 1 day and
                                          optionally on bismuth sulphite agar at 36°C
                                           for 2 days; isolation of typical colonies for
                                              confirmation using biochemical and
                                                         serological tests
         Culturable         ISO 6222        Pour plate technique, yeast extract agar,         All microorganisms are not expected to




261
       microorganisms                     incubation at 36°C for 2 days and at 22°C for        generate colonies; changes in colony
                                                             3 days                         forming units (cfu) relevant; cheap method
        F-RNA phages       ISO 10705-1          Double layer pour plate, Salmonella      AQC on the host bacterium necessary, count
                                          typhimurium strain WG49, phage type 3 Nalr of RNA phages on the basis of subtraction of
                                            (F' 42 lac::Tn5): NCTC 12484; Escherichia    DNA phages from total plaque forming units
                                            coli K12 Hfr: NCTC 12486 or ATCC 23631        (pfu); RNA phages produce small plaques
                                            as host bacteria, TYGB and TYGA at 37°C
                                           for different periods depending on step; with
                                                         and without RNase
      Somatic coliphages   ISO 10705-2    Double layer pour plate, ATCC 13706 strain        Most sensitive of all the phage methods;
                                           as host bacterium, MSB and MSA at 37°C          multiplication of somatic coliphages possible,
                                            for different periods depending on step              but appears not to be significant.
                 Table 8.5. International standardisation of methods for microbiological drinking water analyses (continued)

                                                    Culturing technique, medium/media and
          Target organisms        ISO standard                                                                          Observations
                                                                  incubation
          Bacteroides fragilis    (ISO 10705-4)     Double layer pour plate, defined strain as host        Low numbers compared with somatic
               phages                               bacterium, BPRM at 37°C for different periods          coliphages; host bacterium fastidious
                                                     depending on step, incubation anaerobically
           Concentration of       (ISO/DIS1070              Validation method described
           bacteriophages              5-3)
             Enteroviruses         CEN/TC 230        Cultivation on mono-layer of BGM cells at          Detects a range of enteroviruses, but BGM
                                                         37°C for 7 days; 5% of CO2 in the              cells may be inhibited by components from
                                                                    atmosphere                                    environmental samples
            Evaluation of           ISO 7704           Comparison of relative recoveries for a
           membrane filters                                          method




262
         Evaluation of colony       ISO 9998           Comparison of relative recoveries for a
            count media                                              method
              Validation of          (ISO TR              Characterisation of methods and
            microbiological           13843)          confirmation of the detection of the target
          cultivation methods                                          organism
          Equivalence testing        (ISO/CD         Comparison of relative recoveries of target
           of microbiological         17994)           organisms between different methods
          cultivation methods
      Key: AQC: Analytical Quality Control. ATCC: American Type Culture Collection (Manasses, VA, USA). BCYE: Buffered Charcoal Yeast Extract agar.
      BCYE-cys: BCYE without cysteine. BEAA: Bile Esculin Azide Agar. BGBB: Briliant Green Bile Broth. BGM: Buffalo Green Monkey. BPRM: Bacteroides
      Phage Recovery Medium. DRCM: Clostridium Differential Bouillon. EC: selective broth for coliforms and E. coli (containing bile salts). GVPC: BCYE with
      Legionella selective supplements. MSA: Modified Scholtens’ Agar. MSB: Modified Scholtens’ Broth. NCTC: National Collection of Type Cultures and
      Pathogenic Fungi (Public Health Laboratory Service, UK). TYGA: Tryptone Yeast Extract-Glucose Agar. TYGB: Tryptone Extract-Glucose Broth.
8.3.2     Detection and identification

     Molecular methods targeting nucleic acids are the necessary tools for
unveiling microbial diversity and can be used in detection and identification.
Basic nucleic acid methods are hybridisation, restriction, amplification, cloning,
and sequencing and these are summarised in Box 8.2.


                Box 8.2. Molecular methods targeting nucleic acids
      Hybridisation is a reaction involving two complementary nucleic acid strands,
which bind to form a double-stranded molecule. Often, one of the nucleic acids is
denatured total bacterial DNA and the other is a nucleic acid fragment used as a probe.
The probe is either a cloned DNA fragment or, more conveniently, a synthetic
oligonucleotide (usually 15 - 25 nucleotides long). The hybridisation reaction can easily
be followed when the probe is labelled. Non-radioactive label is visualised by an
immuno-enzymatic reaction or a cascade of reactions involving avidin and a biotinylated
enzyme, when the label is biotin. Visualisation is colorimetric, fluorescent, or
luminescent. Alternatively, oligonucleotide probes can be bound to a support (filter,
microtiter plate, micro-chip) and unknown DNA labelled.
      Some parameters (temperature, ionic strength) must be controlled in order for the
hybridisation to work properly (Grimont, 1988). For given reacting sequences and ionic
strength, there is an optimal temperature allowing maximum binding of the probe. A
stringent temperature allows the best removal of incompletely reassociated nucleic acid
while retaining enough perfectly bound probe to allow the detection of an unambiguous
signal (e.g. colour). A low ionic strength allows the use of a lower temperature. Optimal
(or stringent) temperature and ionic strength depend on the length of perfectly hybridised
nucleic acid. This means that optimal temperature for a given probe will allow some
partial hybridisation (cross-reaction) when probe and target sequences do not match
perfectly (heterologous nucleic acid). For a given probe, the specificity index is defined
as the dilution needed to lower the homologous reaction to a level similar to that of a
heterologous reaction (Grimont et al., 1985). In other terms, excessive numbers of non-
target bacteria may give false positive results. This is probably why hybridisation works
well for confirmation of culture identification (when nucleic acid amounts are controlled)
but is often inconclusive when used on field samples with unknown amounts of nucleic
acid or mixtures of unknown numbers of bacterial species. It should also be noted that
probes targeting DNA do not differentiate between live and dead bacteria.




                                          263
          Box 8.2. Molecular methods targeting nucleic acids (continued)
      Restriction endonucleases are enzymes that recognise short specific palindromic
sequences and cleave double stranded DNA at these sites. Digesting a DNA molecule
with a given restriction endonuclease yields a finite number of DNA fragments.
Electrophoresis is used to separate restriction fragments by size. Restriction of a
bacterial genome often produces too many fragments to be analysed. This problem has
been solved in two ways: one way is to use restriction enzymes that recognise rare
cleavage sites thus generating a few very large fragments. The latter can be separated
with the help of a special technique referred to as pulse field gel electrophoresis. The
other way is to visualise a subset of fragments after hybridising with a specific probe
(Southern method). When the probe targets 16 and 23S rRNA genes, the method is
applicable to all bacteria and is often referred to as ribotyping (Grimont and Grimont,
1986). Alternatively, a DNA fragment can be amplified (see below) and digested by a
restriction endonuclease to give a simple pattern (Kilger and Grimont, 1993). Restriction
methods are best applied to purified DNA extracted from pure culture (bacterial
identification and typing) and are not currently used on field samples with complex
bacterial flora.
      Amplification is a method in which a chosen nucleic acid sequence (DNA or RNA)
is copied many times. Currently, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the most widely
used principle (see Box 8.3). A major problem with this technique relates to the high
sensitivity of PCR, which allows the amplification of contaminating polynucleotides when
careful procedures are not implemented. Furthermore, dead bacteria (e.g. autoclaved or
disinfected) can still be detected by PCR. On the other hand, sample specific substances
can interfere with the PCR reaction and may seriously affect the detection limit (Wilson,
1997).
      The above methods can be combined. Restriction and hybridisation are used by
the Southern method. Restriction of amplified products are used for identification (when
rRNA genes are amplified) or typing (e.g. flagellin genes). Selective amplification of
restriction fragments is used in the method called Amplified Fragment Length
Polymorphism (AFLP).
      An emerging technology consists of using arrays of probes bound to a support
(membrane or microchip). Amplified target DNA is hybridised with the bound probes and
individual reactions are scored either using some electronic device or by image analysis.
Although the molecular techniques used are not new (Rijpens et al., 1995), and unable
to distinguish between live and dead bacteria when DNA is targeted, probe multiplicity
(several thousand) and miniaturisation are interesting in many fields, especially the
identification of alleles of many genes in a given bacterial strain.
     Cloning is a method in which a restriction fragment is inserted in an autoreplicating
vector (plasmid, phage, and cosmid) and thus biologically amplified.
      Sequencing often uses a cloned or amplified gene and oligonucleotides (which
hybridise to part of the gene), DNA polymerase (which copies the gene) and nucleotide
analogues (which randomly stop elongation when adding a given nucleotide type). The
result is a family of fragments all ending with a given nucleotide type. These are
separated by electrophoresis. Sequences can be read automatically and compared with
those contained in databases. Several databases are available on the Internet.




                                          264
8.3.2.1   Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) – based detection

Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)

      A basic laboratory infrastructure is essential to perform PCR (see Box 8.3).
Various kits are commercially available from different suppliers which provide
all protocols and reagents needed to carry out PCR based assays. In addition, a
thermocycler for the PCR reaction and appropriate equipment for separation
(e.g. power supplies, electrophoresis units) and detection/visualisation of
nucleic acids are required.

                        Box 8.3. Amplification of nucleic acids
      Among a variety of nucleic acid amplification technologies the Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) is the most prominent example. This method, carried out in vitro in a
thermocycler, takes advantage of the thermostability and fidelity of DNA polymerases
from certain thermophilic bacteria. Using DNA probes as templates and two
oligonucleotide primers that bind to complementary sequences flanking the target, this
method allows the exponential multiplication of nucleic acid fragments, in the presence of
deoxynucleotides, within several hours. PCR amplification of DNA occurs in three steps:
denaturation, annealing and extension of the primers. From the analysis of such
amplicons, which can be separated in an electrophoretic step, it is possible to draw
conclusions on the microorganisms that were present in the original sample (e.g. water).
Thus, depending on the target sequence and the choice of primers, this technology
allows the indirect detection of large groups of organisms or alternatively the
identification of specific (sub)species. This can be achieved by using primers that bind to
more conserved targets (e.g. regions encoding 16S rRNA) or to regulatory DNA
sequences or genes that might be associated with specific functions such as virulence
determinants (e.g. streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxins), respectively.
     In order to prove that the amplified sequence is indeed the desired target a second
PCR step can be included. Semi-nested PCR is performed with one external primer
(used in the original amplification) and one internal primer that is designed from
sequences contained in the expected first amplicon. In nested PCR two internal primers
are used. This double PCR technique can increase the sensitivity of detection by one to
two orders of magnitude.
      Duplex PCR and multiplex PCR involve the use of two or multiple sets of primers
resulting in two or multiple amplification products. When all products of amplification are
diagnostic for a particular species it is possible to distinguish between closely related
(sub)species. Alternatively, more than one organism can be detected when primers are
used that are specific to different genomes.
     Introducing molecular “tags”, such as digoxigenin (DIG) or biotin-labelled dUTP into
the PCR product can provide an invaluable tool for diagnostics. Such labelled PCR
products may either be used as hybridisation probes or be detected by use of capture
probes. For instance, with PCR-generated DIG-labelled hybridisation probes, it is
possible to detect and quantify minute amounts of a pathogen.




                                           265
                 Box 8.3. Amplification of nucleic acids (continued)
      As DNA can survive for long periods after cell death the PCR reaction does not
distinguish between viable and non-viable organisms. In contrast to DNA, messenger
RNA (mRNA) which is transcribed from DNA is very labile with a typical half-life of only a
few minutes. A technique that offers potential for assessing viability and the presence of
mRNA is reverse transcriptase (RT) PCR. There are two steps:
•   Reverse transcription which produces DNA fragments from RNA templates, and
•   PCR, which produces multiple copies of the target DNA.
      In the first step a reverse transcriptase enzyme is used to extend an
oligonucleotide primer hybridised to a single-stranded RNA containing the message of
interest, producing a complementary DNA strand (cDNA). DNase I is used to remove
any contaminating DNA that may result is false positive results. The entire process
usually takes around three hours. Total RNA, messenger RNA (mRNA), transfer RNA
(tRNA) or ribosomal RNA (rRNA) from a variety of sources (bacteria, viruses, parasites,
yeast, plants, etc.) can be used as templates for reverse transcription. As in PCR, the
amplified DNA segments corresponding to the target sequences can be detected using
standard detection methods such as agarose gel electrophoresis or membrane
hybridisation with specific DNA probes or by using ELISA.
      Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) or Arbitrarily Primed PCR (AP-
PCR) is a specialised form of PCR. It differs from normal PCR in that a single short
primer (generally ten base pairs long) of a random sequence is utilised for the
amplification of genomic DNA. This single short primer can anneal randomly at specific
sites within a genome. Priming sites are randomly distributed throughout a genome and
polymorphisms in such sites result in differing amplification products, detected by the
presence or absence of fragments.

     In principle, nucleic acid might be detected by PCR from all waterborne
viruses and (micro)organisms, as long as their envelopes (capsids, membranes,
cell walls) can be disrupted to make the nucleic acids accessible to the
enzymatic reaction. For the release of nucleic acids from viruses and
microorganisms different methods such as freeze-thaw cycles, boiling, addition
of detergents, digestion with enzymes are applied.

     The complete procedure including sample preparation is fast compared to
the ‘classical’ methods, with results available in three to four hours. The
amplified DNA fragments can be easily detected by gel electrophoretic
separation and subsequent staining techniques, and could be analysed further.
PCR is very flexible, and allows highly specific detection of particular
(sub)species (e.g. Escherichia coli: EHEC, ETEC, STEC, UPEC), certain
groups of microorganisms (e.g. Enterobacteriaceae) or can be used to study
aspects of biodiversity in water samples. Since the nucleic acid region that is
flanked by the primers does not have to be known completely, uncultured
pathogenic microorganisms might be discovered in broad-range PCR
approaches.



                                          266
     PCR techniques also have limitations. Although PCR is very sensitive
samples have, in most cases, to be concentrated (e.g. by flocculation, filtration,
centrifugation, precipitation, immuno magnetic separation, adsorption to
particles followed by sedimentation and elution). The method may generate
false positive results, especially when carried out without a pre-cultivation step
of the original water sample, since it does not discriminate between viable and
non-viable organisms. In addition, DNA molecules can survive in the
environment for long periods of time, this may also result in a number of false
positive reactions. The basic procedure does not allow quantitation of the
number of the amplifiable DNA (RNA) fragments in the original sample. The
PCR reaction is sensitive to inhibition by compounds that are present in
environmental water samples (e.g. divalent cations, fulvic and humic acids) and
might vary depending on thermocyclers and reagents used from different
suppliers. Despite these limitations, in the coming years PCR and PCR-based
methods are likely to be further automated, allow quantitation and be used in
routine laboratories.


Reverse transcriptase (RT – PCR)

     The indication of the viability of microorganisms in a given sample would
be of enormous significance for food, industrial, environmental and medical
applications. RT-PCR is useful to detect the presence of specific messenger
RNA (mRNA) or ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences (see Box 8.3). Messenger
RNA is turned over rapidly in living bacterial cells. Most mRNA species have a
half-life of only a few minutes (Belasco, 1993). Detection of mRNA by RT-
PCR might therefore be a good indicator of living cells or those only recently
dead at the time of sampling (Sheridan et al., 1998). This method has been used
to determine the viability of Legionella pneumophila, Vibrio cholerae as well as
that of Giardia cysts and Cryptosporidium oocysts through the detection of heat
shock protein hsp70 mRNA (Bej et al., 1991; Bej et al., 1996; Stinear et al.,
1996; Abbaszadegan et al., 1997) in environmental water samples. The method,
combined with calcium carbonate flocculation to concentrate samples, induction
of hsp70, and purification by immunomagnetic separation has been shown to be
able to detect a single oocyst. However there are still disadvantages using this
technology. The method is qualitative not quantitative and as the oocysts are
broken subsequent counting is not possible.

      Despite their large advantages, RNA based approaches face technical
difficulties, particularly the extraction of detectable levels of intact RNA (a
molecule that is significantly less stable than DNA). In order to minimise this
problem a number of commercial kits for extraction and purification of RNA
have been developed. The enzyme, reverse transcriptase, like the polymerases


                                       267
for PCR is highly susceptible to a number of inhibitory contaminants commonly
found in water (e.g. humic compounds). Therefore, considerable efforts have to
be made in order to remove these compounds prior to testing. Immunomagnetic
capture, as well as nucleic acid capture have proven to be successful for this
purpose. Oligonucleotide probe-linked magnetic beads combined with RT-PCR
have been used for the detection of viable Giardia and Cryptosporidium in
water samples containing PCR-inhibiting substances. Although, as in the case
of PCR, loss of microorganisms during the concentration and recovery can
greatly reduce the detection sensitivity of the method.

      Direct PCR does not distinguish between infectious and non-infectious
viral sequences. The integrated technique involves inoculation of the
concentrated sample onto cell monolayers, which are then incubated for a
minimum of 24 hours. This allows virus RNA to be amplified in tissue culture
making RT-PCR on cell culture lysate more sensitive. The technique is known
as integrated cell culture RT-PCR (ICC RT-PCR).

      Quantification using RT-PCR is still difficult, laborious and inaccurate,
and requires skilled operators and large amounts of materials. Because neither
PCR nor RT-PCR provides reliable means for quantification, commonly RT-
PCR detection of pathogens in water has only been used as a qualitative
presence/absence test. In recent years advances in technology and products have
been made towards quantification of PCR and RT-PCR. These developments,
(e.g. the TaqMan™ and LightCycler™ systems) are very promising for ‘in-
tube’ detection and quantification.


8.3.2.2   Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH)

      With the help of in situ hybridisation techniques organisms can be detected
in their natural habitat without the need for pre-culture techniques. The method
involves fixation of the cells in their natural state followed by permeabilisation
of the cell wall. This enables all the reagents, including the species-specific
oligonucleotide probes, to move into the cell and hybridise to their target. The
probes are labelled with fluorescent dyes to enable the hybridised target within
the cell to be viewed by epifluorescence microscopy or laser scanning electron
microscopy. Fluorescent oligonucleotide probes can react with, for example, all
bacteria of a given phylogenetic branch, a genus, or a single species (Amann
et al., 1990, 1995). Different fluorescent labels can be used enabling
multicolour reactions. Possible targets for hybridisation are genes, mRNA and
rRNA. Genes cannot be detected by in situ hybridisation unless some in situ
PCR step is used, as some 10 000 labelled molecules are typically required for
‘visualisation’.


                                       268
Detection of bacteria by FISH

     A typical in situ hybridisation protocol includes filtration of a water sample
through a membrane, fixation of bacterial cells on the membrane, permeation of
cells (to allow the probe to access its target), hybridisation with a fluorescent
probe, washing to eliminate unbound probe, and microscopic examination.

     rRNA molecules are universally present in bacteria, have diversely
conserved portions of their sequences, and occur in about 30 000 copies per
‘active’ cell, as such they are perfect targets for in situ hybridisation. Databases
contain many rRNA sequences. However, since sequences are not available for
all described species, probes must be tested against a collection of reference
microorganisms.

      The fluorescent signal given by a cell depends on the number of targets
and the accessibility of the target. For a given probe targeting rRNA, the signal
is in relation to the number of ribosomes (i.e. the physiological state of the
bacterium). When a probe is designed, attention should be given to target
accessibility as the fluorescent signal varies widely depending on the sequence
position of the target on the rRNA (Fuchs et al., 1998). The fluorescent signal is
stronger when the probe is longer with multiple labels (Trebesius et al., 1994)
or when a peptide nucleic acid (PNA) is used as a probe (Prescott and Fricker,
1999). However, for a given probe sequence, PNA probes are less specific than
regular oligonucleotide probes and mismatches must be introduced to raise
specificity. Signal amplification systems, such as Tyramide Signal
Amplification (TSA) accumulate fluorescent compounds in cells where a probe
reacted. This gives a very strong signal and may allow detection and
enumeration of fluorescent cells by scanning cytometry. PNA probes and TSA
have been combined, and the use of PNA probes targeted against the 16S rRNA
molecule for the specific detection of E. coli have been shown to offer a fast
efficient alternative to conventional approaches (Prescott and Fricker, 1999). In
this method, bacteria are captured by filtration of the water samples through
metallic membranes. The cells are then fixed by placing the membranes on a
filter pad pre-soaked with paraformaldehyde solution. They are then treated
with lysozyme, washed and overlaid with hybridisation solution containing a
biotinylated PNA oligonucleotide probe specific for the detection of E. coli. The
biotin PNA-RNA complex is detected by incubation in streptavidin horseradish
peroxidase (HRP) followed by the addition of fluorescein tyramide. The HRP
catalyses the deposition of fluorescein and the cells are detected by
epifluorescence microscopy. The test requires no specialised equipment and is
easy to perform in two to three hours. The procedure could be performed
directly on the water sample without the need for culture techniques.
Unfortunately, dead bacteria can also be detected after signal amplification.


                                        269
     Problems and shortcomings have been identified when FISH is applied to
the detection of bacteria in water:

 •   Detection is strictly taxonomic. Molecular detection and identification of
     bacteria work in the framework of molecular taxonomy. Taxonomic
     groups that are not confirmed by molecular methods may not be properly
     identified. As an example, coliforms (whether faecal or not) do not
     constitute a taxon in molecular terms, therefore no nucleic acid probe can
     detect them. It is possible to use a probe or PCR system targeting the beta-
     galactosidase gene. Such probes, however, will not react with all
     coliforms but rather with coliform species that are phylogenetically close
     to E. coli, irrespectively of their habitat. Moreover, all Shigella species
     and serotypes, except S. boydii 13, belong to the E. coli genomic species
     and Shigella spp. are seen as entero-invasive clones of E. coli. Therefore,
     no taxonomic probe can distinguish Shigella spp. from E. coli. Probes (or
     PCR systems) can target the invasivity genes. These probes will detect
     invasive strains of Shigella and E. coli but will not detect Shigella strains
     that have lost the invasivity plasmid.
 •   Bacteria in water are often starved or stressed. Starved or stressed
     bacteria are less reactive and often occur as tiny cells. As such, they are
     difficult to distinguish among some inanimate material which may bind
     probes non-specifically. Furthermore, naturally fluorescent bacteria or
     objects may occur. A major problem with molecular methods is to
     distinguish live from dead bacteria. A bacterial state has been described in
     which bacteria are viable but nonculturable (VBNC) (Roszak and Colwell,
     1987; Colwell and Grimes, 2000). However, clear definitions of bacterial
     life and death are needed (Villarino et al., 2000). When starved or stressed
     bacteria are incubated in the presence of nutrients, yeast extract, and
     nalidixic acid (or ciprofloxacin), the cellular machinery is restarted,
     ribosomes accumulate while the cell elongates (nalidixic acid or
     ciprofloxacin prevent cell division, not elongation), thus demonstrating
     viability. Such cells are easily differentiated from inanimate material and
     from dead cells. The method called Direct Viable Count, or DVC (Kogure
     et al., 1979) was adapted to FISH (Kalmbach et al., 1997; Nishimura et
     al., 1993; Regnault et al., 2000) and proved to be the most accurate
     viability marker (Villarino et al., 2000). The DVC was also used to first
     detect VBNC bacteria in water (Xu et al.,1982).
 •   The major drawback of microscopic methods is sensitivity. In order to
     reach sufficient microscopic sensitivity to detect one cell per 100 ml,
     bacteria should be concentrated from volumes of 100 litres. Alternatively,
     machines scanning the whole filter surface for fluorescent objects could



                                      270
        be used together with automatic positioning of the microscope above
        detected fluorescent objects.

Detection of protozoa by FISH

      Probes targeting the 18S rRNA and used in the hybridisation assay can be
synthesised to the genus or species level. The use of FISH as an alternative
technique would enable the specific detection of Cryptosporidium parvum as
traditional methods such as antibody staining are unable to distinguish between
different species within the genus (Vesey et al., 1998). However fluorescence
labelling does not produce fluorescence bright enough to be used for primary
detection since autofluorescence particles like algae fluoresce more brightly. A
combination of fluorescence and secondary antibodies should improve detection
systems.


8.4        Emerging procedures

8.4.1      Laser scanning analysis

      With the development of test procedures on the basis of chromogenic
(Table 8.4) and fluorogenic substrates for the detection and enumeration of
coliform bacteria and E. coli, the analysis can be performed in 24-48 hours.
Several approaches have been investigated to enhance the sensitivity of
enzymatic reactions using instrumentation instead of the traditional visual
approach. Spectrophotometry has been shown to reduce the 24hr Colilert® test
by 6 hours (Rice et al., 1993). Using fluorometry one faecal coliform can be
detected within 7 hours. In addition the ‘ChemScan®’ instrument from
‘Chemunex®’ has been used with membrane filtration tests for the detection of
fluorescent microcolonies. Samples are filtered onto Cycloblack-coated
polyester filters that are then incubated on a prefilter saturated with Colicult®
medium. After the membrane has been transferred to a second prefilter saturated
with a fluorogenic substrate the membrane is analysed by the ChemScan®
instrument. The ChemScan® is a laser-scanning device with a motorised stage
attached to an epifluorescence microscope. Each fluorescent event detected can
be validated by microscopy. Initial experiments indicate that this method can be
performed within 3.5 hours and yield results equivalent to those of standard
methods. This technology allows the detection of any bacteria and protozoa that
can be labelled with a fluorescent substrate linked to an antibody or nucleic acid
probe. An alternative semi-quantitative system for the detection of coliforms is
also available from Colifast®. This instrument called the CA-100 system also
utilises the ability of coliforms to cleave galactoside conjugates to yield



                                       271
fluorescent products. The level of fluorescence is measured at given time
intervals and is directly proportional to the number of coliform bacteria present.

8.4.2     DNA – chip array
     The future holds endless possibilities for the detection of both indicators
and pathogens alike. On the horizon are methods based on microarrays and
biosensors. Biosensors in the medical area have largely been based on antibody
technology, with an antigen triggering a transducer or linking to an enzyme
amplification system. Biosensors based on gene recognition, however, are
looking very promising in the microarray format for detecting microorganisms.
There are two variants of the DNA microarray technology, in terms of the
property of arrayed DNA sequence with known identity:

 •      Probe cDNA (500~5 000 bases long) is immobilized to a solid surface
        such as glass using robot spotting and exposed to a set of targets either
        separately or in a mixture. This method was originally called DNA
        microarray and was developed at Stanford University (Ekins and Chu,
        1999).
 •      An array of oligonucleotide (20~25-mer oligos) or peptide nucleic acid
        probes is synthesised either in situ (on-chip) or by conventional synthesis
        followed by on-chip immobilisation. The array is exposed to labelled
        sample DNA, hybridised, and the identity/abundance of complementary
        sequences are determined. This method, originally called GeneChip
        arrays or DNA chips, was first developed at Affymetrix Inc. (Lemieux et
        al., 1998; Lipshutz et al., 1999).

     Microarrays using DNA/RNA probe-based rRNA targets may be coupled
to adjacent charged couple device detectors (Guschin et al., 1997). Eggers et al.
(1997) have demonstrated the detection of E. coli and Vibrio proteolyticus using
a microarray containing hundreds of probes within a single well (1cm2) of a
conventional microtiter plate (96 well). The complete assay with quantification
took less than one minute.

     The microarray under development by bioMerieux (using Affymetrix Inc.
GeneChip technology) for an international water company (Lyonnaise des
Eaux, Paris, France) is expected to reduce test time for faecal indicators from
the current average of 48 hours to just four hours. In addition, the cost for the
standard water microbiology test is expected to be ten times less than present
methods. The high resolution DNA chip technology is expected to target a
range of key microorganisms in water. The prototype GeneChip measures



                                        272
about 1 cm2, on which hybridisation occurs with up to 400 000 oligonucleotide
probes.


8.4.3   Biosensors

     The biosensor relies on optics, immunoassays and other chemical tests,
which may be directed to detect microorganisms. To date, most work has
focused on bacterial pathogens (Wang et al., 1997). In general, there is an
immunoaffinity step to capture and concentrate bacteria on beads, membranes
or fibre optics probe tips, followed by detection by laser excitation of bound
fluorescent antibodies, acoustogravimetric wave transduction, or surface
plasmon resonance.

     Several types of biosensors are currently under development, especially to
detect foodborne pathogens in, for example, meat and poultry. As an example,
one type is described (Georgia Tech Research Institute, 1999):

        The biosensor operates with three primary components - integrated
        optics, immunoassay techniques and surface chemistry tests. It
        indirectly detects pathogens by combining immunoassays with a
        chemical sensing scheme. In the immunoassay, a series of antibodies
        selectively recognise target bacteria. The ‘capture’ antibody is bound to
        the biosensor and captures the target bacteria as it passes nearby. A set
        of ‘reporter’ antibodies (which bind with the same target pathogen)
        contain the enzyme urease, which breaks down urea that is then added
        resulting in the production of ammonia. The chemical sensor detects the
        ammonia, affecting the optical properties of the sensor and signalling
        changes in transmitted laser light. These changes reveal both the
        presence and concentration of specific pathogens in a sample at
        extremely minute levels.

     The method is currently unable to distinguish viable from non-viable
microbes, and it will be necessary to increase the sensitivity in order to apply
this technique to water testing. Nonetheless this methodology has a great
potential for future application, especially as it is extremely fast.


8.4.4    Solid state biochips

    The idea of rapid detection (minutes) of a number of toxins and actual
microbial cells on a solid state biochip is a visionary approach currently being
developed. This approach does not require isolation and characterisation of


                                      273
nucleic acids from the microorganisms and does not rely on capturing of
antibodies. Further characteristics are: no lengthy incubation times, no labelling
and no washing are needed. The technique is not yet available, so limitations
cannot be determined.


8.5      Performance and validation of methods

8.5.1    Limitations and characteristics of microbiological methods

      The low numbers of target organisms in microbiological and especially
drinking water analyses increase measurement uncertainty. Even if assuming
homogenous distribution of target in the sample, the numbers detected are
defined by the Poisson distribution. Therefore, the uncertainty of measurement
is related to each individual measurement result and method specific values are
not satisfactory alone. To be of use in validation a clear specification should be
available. This should include an exact description of the working conditions
and media used, upper counting limit, recovery, working limits within which
the method can be used, selectivity with the respect to the target organism,
specificity, robustness and limitations of the method.

     The aim of the selective recovery of target organisms from samples is
challenging. In growth dependent methods the viability of a target organism is
defined by growth of this organism under specified conditions (i.e. by the
method itself, a non-selective method or a reference method). It is nearly
impossible to determine the true number of viable target organisms that are
present in a sample (even when the sample is spiked). Therefore, absolute
recovery cannot be defined and for a new method only a relative recovery can
be given by relating it to that obtained with other (reference) methods. Similar
problems occur in molecularly based methods. Microbiological methods are not
robust in the sense that chemical methods are. The target and many
contaminants in the sample are living entities and therefore unexpected effects
and phenomena can occur. Robustness is affected by many different factors
including the physical, chemical and microbiological properties of sample itself.
In the analyses based on nucleic acids, it has been repeatedly observed that
sample specific inhibitors interfere and decrease sensitivity (Wilson, 1997). All
the methods are affected by sample storage before analysis (e.g. cold-shocks),
incubation conditions and the competence of the personnel executing the
analysis (e.g. time needed to perform certain steps).




                                       274
8.5.2     Statistical issues

      In samples (even in well-mixed laboratory samples) particles, including
target organisms, are unevenly distributed and this results in a random basic
variation of the results obtained which cannot be avoided (Tillett and Lightfoot,
1995). Due to experimental imperfections the variations observed in practice in
parallel determinations are even larger than predicted by the Poisson
distribution (the mathematical law which describes the ideal distribution they
should follow). This effect is called over-dispersion. In contrast to chemical
analysis where even at low concentrations the number or target molecules in a
sample volume is high this over-dispersion cannot be avoided in
microbiological testing because the number of target microorganisms is usually
low. It is therefore important to analyse a sufficient number of samples to obtain
a convincing result. Although statistical theory provides clear information (e.g.
Cochran, 1977; ISO/TR 13843, 2000) as to how many samples would be
required for a certain testing scenario, it is often not possible to meet these
requirements (e.g. because of cost reasons) and statistical considerations usually
become guidelines only. However, generally it should be remembered that too
few samples may be a waste of effort, time and money.

8.5.3     Validation of methods

      Method validation provides evidence that a specific method is capable of
serving the purpose for which it is intended (i.e. that it does detect or quantify a
particular microbe [or group of organisms, or a viral particle] with adequate
precision and accuracy). A new, or inadequately characterised, method is
initially investigated in a primary validation process to establish its operational
limits. Primary validation should result in an unambiguous and detailed
quantitative description of the results the method can deliver. Primary validation
of a new method is typically performed by the laboratory that has developed it.
When the method is implemented in another laboratory secondary validation
takes place (also referred to as verification). Here, it is established whether the
specifications described in primary validation can be met. Usually only selected
and simplified forms of the procedures used in the primary validation process
are used, but over an extended period of time and/or more samples. It should be
pointed out that validation should simulate the later routine as closely as
possible and natural samples should be used as the main test material wherever
possible.

      For both primary and secondary validation it is of course essential that
strict analytical quality control is used, because application of valid methods
does not necessarily ensure valid results. The methods of analytical quality



                                        275
control include, replications at different levels, inclusion of reference materials
(qualitative and quantitative), intercalibrations and spiked samples (Lightfoot
and Maier, 1988; McClure, 1990).

     In case equivalent methods already exist, the justification for introducing a
new method always requires careful comparison with one or more established
methods in parallel on the same samples. Since every method usually consists
of several steps, method performance includes many different aspects. For
example, one method might be superior in specificity but inferior in recovery.
One method might give highest recovery of target organisms but require
confirmation of positive results in routine test. Hence, for routine use a method
giving lower recovery but not requiring confirmation of positives is probably
preferable. This indicates that it is frequently difficult to numerically specify the
superiority of one method over the other.

     Collaborative tests in which several laboratories participate are considered
essential for the validation of microbiological methods as well as the
performance of individual laboratories. These tools were developed for
chemical analytical methods but many of the principles are now also applied to
microbiological testing. These collaborative tests are mainly of two types
(Horwitz, 1988; McClure, 1990):

  •   Intercalibration exercises which allow laboratories to compare their
      analytical results with those of other participating laboratories.
  •   Method performance tests that yield precision estimates (repeatability,
      reproducibility) when several laboratories analyse identical samples with
      strictly standardised methods. In such tests ‘artificial’ samples
      (i.e. certified reference materials and spiked samples) are included in the
      samples to be analysed by the participating laboratories.

      Experience from chemical collaborative testing indicates that it is
important that the participating laboratories have in-depth knowledge and
experience with the methods to be tested and collaborative method performance
tests are not used as laboratory proficiency tests and training exercises. It is
important to note that a number of established microbiological methods
(e.g. Endo agar for total coliforms or mFC for thermotolerant coliforms),
although used for decades by hundreds of laboratories, have not been assessed
in collaborative tests.

      Whether or not a validated method is successful in practice may depend on
political and/or commercial issues. For example, within ISO, acceptance and
publication of a method as a standard method requires approval of at least 75%


                                        276
of the member bodies casting a vote. On the other hand, stimulation of the use
of certain methods by the development and promotion of easy to handle kits by
commercial companies is also possible.

8.6      Summary
     Table 8.6 summarises the predominant characteristics, advantages and
limitations of the main detection methods that are described in this chapter.




                                     277
                          Table 8.6. Methods for the detection of microbial contamination in drinking water

                                                                                                      Application: status quo and
      Method                Characteristics/advantages          Limitations/disadvantages
                                                                                                          future perspective
      Cultivation of      • Cultivation media mostly          • Time consuming                      • Standardised (ISO, CEN,
      bacteria            inexpensive                         • Not all bacteria of interest can    APHA) for a number of
                          • Easy to perform                   be cultivated                         species(groups)
                          • Qualitative and quantitative      • Large sample volumes cause          • Improved media might be
                          results obtainable                  problems for some of the              developed in order to obtain
                                                              methods                               faster growth and to increase
                          • Differentiation and preliminary
                                                                                                    sensitivity and selectivity of the
                          identification possible on          • Does not detect ’viable but
                                                                                                    assays
                          selective solid media               non-culturable’ organisms
                          • Detection of bacteria occurring   • Selectivity for the detection of
                          in low numbers possible (in         certain indicators often not
                          combination with concentration      sufficient (false positive species)
                          techniques, e.g. filtration)        • No information on infectivity of




278
                                                              a pathogen
                                                              • Biosafety issues
      Cultivation of      • Assays inexpensive and easy       • No direct correlation in            • Standardised methods
      bacterial viruses   to perform                          numbers of phages and viruses         available (ISO) for major groups
      (bacteriophages)    • Quantitation possible             excreted by humans
                          • Similar to bacterial methods      • Phages can be useful as faecal
                                                              indicators, as well as models or
                          • Minimal biosafety issues (host
                                                              surrogates for enteric viruses in
                          cells)
                                                              water environments, but care is
                                                              needed in interpreting the results.
                       Table 8.6. Methods for the detection of microbial contamination in drinking water (continued)

                                                                                                         Application: status quo and
      Method                   Characteristics/advantages          Limitations/disadvantages
                                                                                                             future perspective
      Cultivation of         • Several enteric viruses can be   • Requires some level of training      • Standardised (ISO, CEN,
      animal/human           propagated in cell culture (a      and specialised laboratories           APHA) for a number of
      viruses                variety of cell lines have been    • Various cell lines may need to       species(groups)
                             tested and used)                   be used for the detection of a         • New cell lines are being
                             • Quantitation possible            larger number of virus types           developed and new media
                             • Growth indicates infectivity     • Biosafety issues                     formulation may increase
                                                                                                       sensitivity
      Cultivation of         • Excystation in vitro can be      • Does not provide information         • At present, the only available
      protozoa               taken (to a certain extent) as     on infectivity for man                 infectivity assay depends on
                             indication for viability           • Time consuming                       animal hosts, which is costly and
                                                                                                       very time-consuming
                                                                • Propagation of most organisms
                                                                in vitro using cell cultures is




279
                                                                extremely poor
                                                                • Not all protozoa of interest can
                                                                be cultivated
                                                                • Biosafety issues
      Immunological          • Qualitative and quantitative     • Often needs pre-cultivation step     • Assays allow standardisation
      detection of           results regarding the number of    which is time consuming                and automation
      antigenic              microorganisms possible (to a      • Lack of sensitivity
      structures             certain extent)
                                                                • Selectivity can be a problem due
      associated with        • Relatively specific for target   to cross-reacting antibodies
      microorganisms         organism
                                                                • Without pre-cultivation, currently
                                                                no discrimination between viable
                                                                and non-viable microorganisms
                                                                • No information on infectivity of a
                                                                pathogen.
                  Table 8.6. Methods for the detection of microbial contamination in drinking water (continued)

                                                                                                       Application: status quo and
      Method                 Characteristics/advantages            Limitations/disadvantages
                                                                                                           future perspective
      Immunomagnetic     • Faster and more specific than        • Sensitivity, robustness,
      separation (IMS)   other concentration methods            consistency can be affected by
                                                                environmental conditions
                         • Sound basis for other detection
                         methods (PCR, RT-PCR, FACS,            • Selectivity can be a problem
                         FISH) as well as cultivation           due to cross reacting antibodies
                         methods
                                                                • No information on infectivity of
                                                                a pathogen
      Polymerase chain   • In principle highly sensitive (but   • Limited reliability (at present    • Currently no standardisation
      reaction (PCR)     see limitations)                       the detection of an individual
                                                                                                     • Potential for automation
                                                                microbe cannot be guaranteed
                         • Selective
                                                                due to inconsistencies in            • Potential for quantitation
                         • Specific                             performance of the technique)




280
                         • Can detect ‘non-culturable’          • Sufficient quantity of nucleic
                         microbes                               acids from the targeted microbe
                         • Faster than cultivation methods      has to be recovered
                         (3-4 hours)                            • Negatively affected by certain
                         • Sound basis for further              environmental conditions
                         analyses of nucleic acids              • Basic procedure does not allow
                         (sequencing, RFLP, RAPD)               quantitation of the number of
                         •                                      amplifiable DNA/RNA fragments
                                                                • At present no discrimination
                                                                between viable and non-viable
                                                                microorganisms
                                                                • No information on infectivity of
                                                                a pathogen
                    Table 8.6. Methods for the detection of microbial contamination in drinking water (continued)

                                                                                                         Application: status quo and
      Method                 Characteristics/advantages            Limitations/disadvantages
                                                                                                             future perspective
      RT-PCR               • As PCR                             • As PCR (except discrimination        • Currently no standardisation
                           • Good indication for living         between viable and non-viable          • Potential for automation
                           organisms with mRNA as target        microorganisms with mRNA as
                                                                                                       • Potential for quantitation
                                                                target)
                           • Can provide information on
                           pathogenic potential of an           • Extraction of detectable levels
                           organism when mRNA of a              of intact RNA molecules is
                           virulence gene is assayed            problematic due to their instability
      Flow cytometry,      • Faster than cultivation methods    • No information on infectivity of
      fluorescence-        • Detection of non-culturable        a pathogen
      activated cell       organisms                            • Expensive technology
      sorting (FACS)
                                                                • Limited reliability for the
                                                                detection of microbes that are




281
                                                                present in extremely low
                                                                concentrations
      Fluorescence in-     • Faster than cultivation methods    • Lack of sensitivity with             • Potential for automation
      situ hybridisation   • No pre-cultivation needed          chromosomal genes or mRNA as
      (FISH)               • Detection of non-culturable        target
                           organisms                            • Detection is strictly taxonomic
                           • Can detect individual cells        • Differentiation between living
                           when ribosomal RNA is target         and dead cells is often difficult
                           • Different (multicolour)
                           fluorescent labels allow detection   • Not applicable to detect 1
                           of different microbes                indicator per 100 ml without
                                                                concentration/filtration
                           • Can be used in combination
                           with machines that do automated
                           scanning of filter surfaces for
                           fluorescent objects
                    Table 8.6. Methods for the detection of microbial contamination in drinking water (continued)

                                                                                                        Application: status quo and
      Method                  Characteristics/advantages             Limitations/disadvantages
                                                                                                            future perspective
      Molecular             • Faster than cultivation methods      • At present no discrimination
      fingerprinting        • Excellent tool for differentiation   between viable and non-viable
      (ribotyping, RFLP,    of strains or isolates within a        microorganisms
      RAPD, AP-PCR)         species                                • RAPD requires the use of pure
                                                                   isolates
      DNA chip array        • Micromanufacturing techniques        • At present very cost intensive   • Technique not yet widely
                            allows testing of up to several        • Highly trained personal needed   available
                            thousand sequences in one              • Absolute quantitation might be
                            assay on a single “chip”               problematic
                            • Sensitive, selective and specific
                            to the desired level to detect
                            groups of organisms or (sub)-
                            species, respectively




282
                            • Fast (2-4 hours)
      Biosensors            • Immunoaffinity step to bind                                             • Currently unable to discriminate
                            microorganisms to surfaces;                                               between viable and non-viable
                            detection by laser excitation of                                          microbes
                            bound fluorescent antibodies,
                            acoustogravimetric wave
                            transduction, or surface plasmon
                            resonance
                            • Rapid, but depends on
                            culturable microorganisms
      Solid state biochip   • Aim of the method: rapid             • Limitations cannot be            • Technique not yet available,
                            detection (minutes) of a number        determined yet                     visionary approach under
                            of toxins and microbial cells                                             development
                            • Approach does not require
                            isolation and characterisation of
                            nucleic acids
                               REFERENCES



Abbaszadegan, M., Huber, M.S., Gerba, C.P. and Pepper, I.L. (1997) Detection
     of viable Giardia cysts by amplification of heat shock-induced mRNA.
     Applied and Environmental Microbiology 63(1), 324-328.

Adams, M.H. (1959) Bacteriophages. Interscience, New York.

Amann, R.I., Krumholz, L. and Stahl, D.A. (1990) Fluorescent-oligonucleotide
    probing of whole cells for determinative, phylogenetic and environmental
    studies in microbiology. Journal of Bacteriology 172(2), 762-70.

Amann, R.I., Ludwig, W. and Schleifer, K.-H. (1995) Phylogenetic
    identification and in situ detection of individual microbial cells without
    cultivation. Microbiological Reviews 59, 143-169.

APHA, AWWA, WEF (1998) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
    and Wastewaters, 20th Edition. American Public Health Association,
    Washington, DC.

Bej, A.K., Mahbubani, M.H. and Atlas, R.M. (1991) Detection of viable
      Legionella pneumophila in water by Polymerase Chain Reaction and
      gene probe methods. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 57(2),
      597-600.

Bej, A.K., Ng, W.Y., Morgan, S., Jones, D. and Mahbubani, M.H. (1996)
      Detection of viable Vibrio cholerae by reverse-transcription polymerase
      chain reaction (RT-PCR). Molecular Biotechnology 5, 1-10.

Belasco, J. (1993) mRNA degradation in prokaryotic cells. In: Control of
      Messenger RNA Stability. Brawerman, B.A.G. (Ed.), Academic Press,
      Inc., San Diego, USA. pp. 3-12.

Calabrese, J.P. and Bissonnette, G.K. (1990) Improved membrane filtration
      method incorporating catalase and sodium pyruvate for detection of




                                      283
      chlorine-stressed coliform bacteria. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 56, 3558-3564.

Campbell, A.T., Robertson, L.J., Smith, H.V. and Girdwood, R.W.A. (1994)
    Viability of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts concentrated by calcium
    carbonate flocculation. Journal of Applied Bacteriology 76, 638-639.

CEN (2000) CEN/TC230/WG3/TG4. Enterovirus (Nr. 12), Working
    Document, Draft Method, March 2000.

Cochran, W.G. (1977) Sampling Techniques, 3rd Edition. John Wiley & Sons,
     New York.

Colwell, R.R. and Grimes, D.J. (Eds.) (2000) Viable but Nonculturable
     Microorganisms in the Environment. ASM Press, Washington, DC.

Deere, D., Vesey, G., Ashbolt, N. and Gauci, M. (2002) Flow cytometry and
      cell sorting for monitoring microbial cells. In: Encyclopaedia of
      Environmental Microbiology. Bitton, G. (Ed.). John Wiley and Sons,
      New York (in press).

Divizia, M., Santi, A.L. and Pana, A. (1989) Ultrafiltration: an efficient second
      step for hepatitis A virus and poliovirus concentration. Journal of
      Virology Methods 23, 55-62.

Eckner, K.F. (1998) Comparison of membrane filtration and multiple-tube
     fermentation by the Colilert and Enterolert methods for detection of
     waterborne coliform bacteria, Escherichia coli, and enterococci used in
     drinking and bathing water quality monitoring in Southern Sweden.
     Applied and Environmental Microbiology 64, 3079-3083.

Edberg, S.C., Allen, M.J. and Smith, D.B. (1991) Defined substrate technology
     method for rapid and specific simultaneous enumeration of total coliforms
     and Escherichia coli from water: collaborative study. J. Assoc. Off. Analy.
     Chem. 74, 526-529.

Eggers, M.D., Balch, W.J., Mendoza, L.G., Gangadharan, R., Mallik, A.K.,
      McMahon, M.G., Hogan, M.E., Xaio, D., Powdrill, T.R., Iverson, B., Fox,
      G.E., Willson, R.C., Maillard, K.I., Siefert, J.L. and Singh, N. (1997)
      Advanced approach to simultaneous monitoring of multiple bacteria in
      space. Chap. SAE Technical Series 972422. In: 27th International
      Conference on Environmental Systems, Lake Tahoe, Nevada, July 14-17,



                                       284
      1997. The Engineering Society for Advancing Mobility Land Sea Air and
      Space, SAE International, Warrendale, PA, pp:1-8.

Ekins, R. and Chu, F.W. (1999) Microarrays: their origins and applications.
      Tibtech 17, 217-218.

Emde, K.M.E., Mao, H. and Finch, G.R. (1992) Detection and occurrence of
     waterborne bacterial and viral pathogens. Water and Environmental
     Research 64, 641-647.

Ericksen, T.H. and Dufour, A.P. (1986) Methods to identify waterborne
      pathogens and indicator organisms. In: Waterborne Diseases in the
      United States. G.F. Craun (Ed.). CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA. pp. 195-
      214.

Fricker, E.J., Illingworth, K.S. and Fricker, C.R. (1997) Use of two formulations
      of colilert and quantitray (TM) for assessment of the bacteriological quality
      of water. Water Research 31, 2495-2499.

Fuchs, B.M., Wallner, G., Beisker, W., Schwippl, I., Ludwig, W. and Amann, R.
      (1998) Flow Cytometric Analysis of the in situ accessibility of
      Escherichia coli 16S rRNA for fluorescently labelled oligonucleotide
      probes. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 64, 4973-4982.

Gasser, R.B. and Donaghue, P.O. (1999) Isolation, propagation and
      characterization of Cryptosporidium. International Journal of
      Parasitology 29,1379-1413.

Georgia Tech Research Institute (1999) Georgia Tech Research News -
     September 1999.

Gonzalez, J.M. (1996) A general purpose program for obtaining most probable
     number tables. Journal of Microbiological Methods 26(3), 215-218.

Goyal, S.M., Gerba, C.P. and Bitton, G. (Eds.) (1987) Phage Ecology. John
      Wiley and Sons, New York. pp 321.

Grabow, W.O.K., Holtzhausen, C.S. and De Villiers, J.C. (1993) Research on
     Bacteriophages as Indicators of Water Quality. WRC Report No
     321/1/93. Water Research Commission, Pretoria. Pp. 147.




                                       285
Grabow, W.O.K., Vrey, A., Uys, M. and De Villiers, J.C. (1998) Evaluation of
     the Application of Bacteriophages as Indicators of Water Quality. WRC
     Report No 540/1/98. Water Research. Commission, Pretoria.

Grimont, F. and Grimont, P.A.D. (1986) Ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene
     restriction patterns as potential taxonomic tools. Annales de l’Institut
     Pasteur / Microbiology 137B, 165-175.

Grimont, P.A.D. (1988) Use of DNA reassociation in bacterial classification.
     Canadian Journal of Microbiology 34, 541-546.

Grimont, P.A.D., Grimont, F., Desplaces, N. and Tchen, P. (1985) A DNA
     probe specific for Legionella pneumophila. Journal of Clinical
     Microbiology 21, 431-437.

Guschin, D.Y., Mobarry, B.K., Proudnikov, D., Stahl, D.A., Rittmann, B.E. and
     Mirzabekov, A.D. (1997) Oligonucleotide microchips as genosensors for
     determinative and environmental studies in microbiology. Applied and
     Environmental Microbiology 63, 2397-2402.

Horwitz, W. (1988) Protocol for the design, conduct and interpretation of
     collaborative studies. Pure and Applied Chemistry 60, 855-864.

Hurst, C.J., Knudsen, G.R., McInerney, M.J., Stetzenbach, L.D. and
      Walter, M.V. (2001) Manual of Environmental Microbiology, 2nd Edition.
      American Society for Microbiology Press, Washington, DC.

ISO 10705-1 (1995) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of
     bacteriophages - Part 1: Enumeration of F-specific RNA bacteriophages.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 10705-2 (2000) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of
     bacteriophages - Part 2: Enumeration of somatic coliphages. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 10705-4 Water quality - Detection and enumeration of bacteriophages -
     Part 4: Enumeration of bacteriophages infecting Bacteroides fragilis.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 11731 (1998) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Legionella.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.




                                       286
ISO 6222 (1999) Water quality - Enumeration of culturable microorganisms -
     Colony count by inoculation in a nutrient agar culture medium.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 6340 (1995) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Salmonella.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 6461-1 (1986) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of the spores of
     sulfite-reducing anaerobes (clostridia) - Part 1: Method by enrichment in
     a liquid medium. International Organization for Standardization, Geneva,
     Switzerland.

ISO 6461-2 (1986) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of the spores of
     sulfite-reducing anaerobes (clostridia) - Part 2: Method by membrane
     filtration. International Organization for Standardization, Geneva,
     Switzerland.

ISO 7704 (1985) Water quality - Evaluation of membrane filters used for
     microbiological analyses. International Organization for Standardization,
     Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 7899-1 (1998) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of intestinal
     enterococci in surface and waste water - Part 1: Miniaturized method
     (Most Probable Number) by inoculation in liquid medium. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 7899-2 (2000) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of intestinal
     enterococci - Part 2: Membrane filtration method. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 8360-1 (1998) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa - Part 1: Method by enrichment in liquid medium.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 8360-2 (1998) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa - Part 2: Membrane filtration method. International
     Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 9308-1 (2000) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Escherichia
     coli and coliform bacteria - Part 1: Membrane filtration method.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.




                                     287
ISO 9308-2 (1990) Water quality - Detection and enumeration of coliform
     organisms, thermotolerant coliform organisms and presumptive
     Escherichia coli - Part 2: Multiple tube (most probable number) method.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO 9998 (1991) Water quality - Practices for evaluating and controlling
     microbiological colony count media used in water quality tests.
     International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO/CD 17994 Water quality - Criteria for the establishment of equivalence
     between microbiological methods. International Organization for
     Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland.

ISO/DIS 10705-3 Water quality - Detection and enumeration of bacteriophages
     - Part 3: Validation of methods for concentration of bacteriophages from
     water. International Organization for Standardization, Geneva,
     Switzerland.

ISO/DIS 11731-2 Water quality - Detection and enumeration of Legionella -
     Part 2: Direct membrane filtration method for waters with low bacterial
     counts. International Organization for Standardization, Geneva,
     Switzerland.

ISO/TR 13843 (2000) Water quality - Guidance on validation of
     microbiological methods. International Organization for Standardization,
     Geneva, Switzerland.

Kalmbach, S., Manz, W. and Szewzyk, U. (1997) Dynamics of biofilm
     formation in drinking water: phylogenetic affiliation and metabolic
     potential of single cells assessed by formazan reduction and in situ
     hybridization. FEMS Microbial Ecology 22, 265-279.

Kenedy, Jr., J.J., Bitton, G. and Oblinger, J.L. (1985) Comparison of selective
     media for assay for coliphages in sewage effluent and lake water. Applied
     and Environmental Microbiology 49, 33-36.

Kilger, G. and Grimont, P.A.D. (1993) Differentiation of Salmonella Phase 1
      flagellar antigen types by restriction of the amplified fliC gene. Journal of
      Clinical of Microbiology 31, 1108-1110.

Kogure, K., Simidu, U. and Targa, N. (1979) A tentative direct microscopic
     method for counting living marine bacteria. Canadian Journal of
     Microbiology 25, 415-420.


                                       288
LeChevallier, M.W., Cameron, S.C. and McFeters, G.A. (1982) New medium
     for improved recovery of coliform bacteria from drinking water. Applied
     and Environmental Microbiology 45, 484-492.

Lee, R.M. and Hartman, P.A. (1989) Optimal pyruvate concentration for the
      recovery of coliforms from food and water. Journal of Food Protection 52,
      119-121.

Lemieux, B., Aharoni, A. and Schena, M. (1998) Overview of DNA chip
     technology. Mol. Breeding 4, 277-289.

Lightfoot, N.F. and Maier, E.A. (Eds.) (1988) Microbiological Analysis of Food
      and Water. Guidelines for Quality Assurance. Elsevier, Amsterdam.

Lipshutz, R.J., Fodor, S.P.A., Gingeras, T.R. and Lockhart, D.J. (1999) High
      density synthetic oligonucleotide arrays Review. Nature Genetics 21(Suppl
      S), 20-24.

Manafi, M. (1996) Fluorogenic and chromogenic substrates in culture media
     and identification tests. International Journal of Food Microbiology 31,
     45-58.

McClure, F.D. (1990) Design and analysis of qualitative collaborative studies:
     minimum collaborative program. J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem. 73, 953-960.

McFeters, G.A., Kippin, J.S. and LeChevallier, M.W. (1986) Injured coliforms
     in drinking water. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 51, 1-5.

Nishimura, M., Kita-Tsukamoto, K., Kogure, K., Ohwada, K. and Simidu, U.
      (1993) A new method to detect viable bacteria in natural seawater using
      16S rRNA oligonucleotide probe. Journal of Oceanology 49, 51-57.

Ongerth, J.E. and Stibbs, H.H. (1987) Identification of Cryptosporidium oocysts
     in river water. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 53, 672-676.

Padan, E., Shilo, M. and Kislev, N. (1967) Isolation of “cyanophage” from
      freshwater ponds and their interaction with Plectonema boryanum.
      Virology 32, 234-246.

Payment, P. (2001) Cultivation of viruses from environmental samples. In:
     Manual of Environmental Microbiology, 2nd Edition. Hurst, C.J.,
     Knudsen, G.R., McInerney, M.J., Stetzenbach, L.D. and Walter, M.V.
     (Eds.) American Society for Microbiology Press, Washington, DC.


                                      289
Prescott, A.M. and Fricker, C.R. (1999) Use of PNA oligonucleotides for the in
      situ detection of Escherichia coli in water. Molecular and Cellular
      Probes 13, 261-268.

Regnault, B., Martin-Delautre, S., Lejay-Collin, M., Lefèvre, M. and Grimont,
     P.A.D. (2000) Oligonucleotide probe for the visualization of Escherichia
     coli/E. fergusonii cells by in situ hybridization: specificity and potential
     applications. Research in Microbiology 151, 521-533.

Rice, E.W., Allen, M.J., Covert, T.C., Langewis, J. and Standridge, J. (1993)
      Identifying Escherichia species with biochemical test kits and standard
      bacteriological tests. Journal of the American Water Works Association
      85, 74-76.

Rijpens, N.P., Jannes, G., van Asbroek, M., Herman, L.M.F. and Rossau, R.
      (1995) Simultaneous detection of Listeria spp. and Listeria
      monocytogenes by reverse hybridization with 16S-23S rRNA spacer
      probes. Molecular and Cellular Probes 9, 423-432.

Roszak, D.B. and Colwell, R.R. (1987) Metabolic activity of bacterial cells
     enumerated by direct viable count. Applied and Environmental
     Microbiology 53, 2889-2893.

Schiemann, D.A. (1990) Yersinia enterocolitica in drinking water. In: Drinking
     Water Microbiology: Progress and Recent Developments. McFeters,
     G.A. (Ed.), Springer-Verlag, New York. , pp. 428-451.

Seeley, N.D. and Primrose, S.B. (1982) The isolation of bacteriophages from
      the environment. Journal of Applied Bacteriology 53, 1-17.

Sheridan, G.E.C., Masters, C.I., Shallcross, J.A. and Mackey, B.M. (1998)
      Detection of mRNA by Reverse Transcription-PCR as an indicator of
      viability in Escherichia coli cells. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 64(4), 1313-1318.

Shieh, Y.S.C., Baric, R.S. and Sobsey, M.D. (1997) Detection of low levels of
      enteric viruses in metropolitan and airplane sewage. Applied and
      Environmental Microbiology 62, 4401-4407.

Shields, P.A. and Farrah, S.R. (1986) Concentration of viruses in beef extract
      by flocculation with ammonium sulfate. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 51, 211-213.



                                       290
Simmons, O.D., Sobsey, M.D., Heaney, C.D., Schaefer III, F.W. and Francy,
    D.S. (2001) Concentration and detection of Cryptosporidium oocysts in
    surface water samples by method 1622 using ultrafiltration and capsule
    filtration. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 67, 1123-1127.

Singh, S.N. and Gerba, C.P. (1983) Concentration of coliphage from water and
      sewage with charge-modified filter aid. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 45, 232-237.

Slifko, T.R., Friedman, D., Rose, J.B. and Jakubowski, W. (1997) An in vitro
       method for detecting infectious Cryptosporidium oocysts with cell
       culture. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 63(9), 3669-75.

Sobsey, M.D. and Glass, J.S. (1980) Poliovirus concentration from tapwater
     with electro-positive adsorbent filters. Applied and Environmental
     Microbiology 40, 201-210.

Sobsey, M.D., Schwab, K.J. and Handzel, T.R. (1990) A simple membrane
     filter method to concentrate and enumerate male-specific RNA
     coliphages. Journal of the American Water Works Association 82, 52-59.

States, S.J., Wadowsky, R.M., Kuchta, J.M., Wolford, R.S., Conley, L.F. and
       Yee, R.B. (1990) Legionella in drinking water. In: Drinking Water
       Microbiology: Progress and Recent Developments. McFeters, G.A. (Ed.),
       Springer-Verlag, New York. pp. 340-367.

Stinear, T., Matusan, A., Hines, K. and Sandery, M. (1996) Detection of a
      single viable Cryptosporidium parvum oocyst in environmental water
      concentrate by reverse transcription-PCR. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 62, 3385-3390.

Tillett, H.E. and Lightfoot, N.F. (1995) Quality control in environmental
       microbiology compared with chemistry: What is homogeneous and what
       is random? Water Science and Technology 31, 471-477.

Trebesius, K., Amann, R., Ludwig, W., Mühlegger, K. and Scheleifer, K.-H.
      (1994) Identification of whole fixed bacterial cells with nonradioactive 23
      S rRNA-targeted polynucleotide probes. Applied and Environmental
      Microbiology 60, 3228-3235.

USEPA (1999) Method 1623 - Cryptosporidium and Giardia in Water by
    Filtration/IMS/IFA. (EPA-821-R99-006.) Office of Water, United States



                                      291
      Environment Protection Agency, Washington D.C.
      http://www.epa.gov/nerlcwww/1623.pdf pages.

Vesey, G., Ashbolt, N., Fricker, E.J., Deere, D., Williams, K.L., Veal, D.A. and
     Dorson, M. (1998) The use of ribosomal RNA targeted oligonucleotide
     probe for fluorescent labelling of viable Cryptosporidium parvum
     oocysts. Journal of Applied Microbiology 85, 429-440.

Vesey, G., Narai, J., Ashbolt, N., Williams, K. L. and Veal, D. A. (1994)
     Detection of specific microorganisms in environmental samples using
     flow cytometry. In: Methods in Cell Biology. Darzynkiewicz, Z.,
     Robinson, J. P. and Crissman, H. A. (Eds.). Vol. 42. Academic Press Inc.,
     New York, pp. 489-522.

Vesey, G., Slade, J.S., Byrne, M., Shepherd, K. and Fricker, C.R. (1993) A new
     method for the concentration of Cryptosporidium oocysts from water.
     Journal of Applied Bacteriology 75(1), 82-86.

Villarino, A., Bouvet, O.M.M., Regnault, B., Martin Delautre, S. and Grimont,
       P.A.D. (2000) Exploring the frontier between life and death in
       Escherichia coli: evaluation of different viability markers in live and
       heat- and UV-killed cells. Research in Microbiology 151, 755-768.

Wang, J., Rivas, G., Cai, X., Palecek, E., Nielsen, P., Shiraishi, H., Dontha, N.,
     Luo, D., Parrado, C., Chicharro, M., Farias, P.A.M., Valera, F.S., Grant,
     D.H., Ozsoz, M. and Flair, M.N. (1997) DNA electrochemical biosensors
     for environmental monitoring – a review. Analt. Chimica Acta 347, 1-8.

Watkins, J. and Xiangrong, J. (1997) Cultural methods of detection for
     microorganisms: recent advances and successes. In: The Microbiological
     Quality of Water. Sutcliffe, D.W. (Ed.) Freshwater Biological Association,
     Ambleside. pp:19-27.

WHO (1984) Guidelines for Drinking water Quality, Vol. 2. Health criteria and
    other supporting information. World Health Organization, Geneva.

Wilson, I.G. (1997) Inhibition and facilitation of nucleic acid amplification.
     Mini review. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 63, 3741-3751.

Xu, H.-S., Roberts, N., Singleton, F.L., Attwell, R.W., Grimes, D.J., Colwell,
     R.R. (1982) Survival and viability of nonculturable Escherichia coli and
     Vibrio cholerae in the estuarine and marine environment. Microbial
     Ecology 8, 313-323.


                                       292
                   LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS



AFLP        Amplified fragment length polymorphism

APHA        American Public Health Association

AP-PCR      Arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction

AQC         Analytical quality control

ATCC        American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA, USA

BCYE        Buffered charcoal yeast extract agar medium

BCYE-cys    BCYE without L-cystein

BEAA        Bile esculin azide agar

BGBB        Brilliant green bile broth

BGM         Buffalo green monkey

BPRM        Bacteroides phage recovery medium

cDNA        Complementary DNA

CEN         European Committee for Standardisation

cfu         Colony forming unit

DAL         Double agar layer

DAS-ELISA   Double antibody sandwich enzyme linked immunosorbent
            assay

DNA         Deoxyribonucleic acid

DRCM        Clostridium differential bouillon




                                  293
DVC          Direct viable count

EC           Selective broth for the growth of coliforms and E. coli ,
             containing bile salts

EIA          Enzyme immunoassay

ELISA        Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay

FACS         Fluorescently activated cell sorting

FISH         Fluorescent in-situ hybridisation

GIT          Guanidinium isothiocyanate

GVPC         BCYE with Legionella-selective supplements

HAV          Hepatitis A virus

HRP          Horseradish peroxidase

ICC RT-PCR   Integrated cell culture reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
             reaction

IMS          Immunomagnetic separation

ISO          International Organization for Standardization

MPN          Most probable number

mRNA         Messenger RNA

MSA          Modified Scholtens’ agar

MSB          Modified Scholtens’ broth

MUG          5-methylumbelliferyl-β-D-glucuronide

NCTC         National Collection of Type Cultures and Pathogenic Fungi,
             (Public Health Laboratory Service, UK)

ONPG         O-nitrophenyl-β-D-galactopyranoside

PCR          Polymerase chain reaction

PEG          Polyethylene glycol



                                   294
pfu      Plaque forming unit

RAPD     Random amplified polymorphic DNA

RNA      Ribonucleic acid

rRNA     Ribosomal RNA

RT-PCR   Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction

TCID50   Tissue culture for 50% infective dose

tRNA     Transfer RNA

TSA      Tyramide signal amplification

TYGA     Tryptone yeast extract-glucose agar

TYGB     Tryptone yeast extract-glucose broth

UV       Ultra violet

VBNC     Viable but nonculturable




                               295
