Emerging Issues in Water
and Infectious Disease




World Health Organization
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
Emerging issues in water and infectious disease.
1.Water microbiology 2.Disease transmission 3.Communicable diseases, Emerging - microbiology 4.Disease vectors 5.Water quality
I.World Health Organization II.United States. Environmental Protection Agency.
(Emerging issues in water and infectious diseases)
ISBN 92 4 159082 3       (LC/NLM classification: QW 80)
ISSN 1728-2160


© World Health Organization 2003
All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from Marketing and Dissemination, World Health
Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel: +41 22 791 2476; fax: +41 22 791 4857; email: bookorders@who.int).
Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution – should be
addressed to Publications, at the above address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; email: permissions@who.int).
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever
on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or
concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not
yet be full agreement.
The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the
World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of
proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.
The World Health Organization does not warrant that the information contained in this publication is complete and correct and shall not be
liable for any damages incurred as a result of its use.
Printed in France
2
E M E R G I N G I S S U E S I N W AT E R
AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE

                                                                                     Access to safe water is a fundamental
F O R E WO R D                                                                       human need and, therefore, a basic
                                                                                     human right. Contaminated water
                                                                                     jeopardizes both the physical and
Human development and population growth exert many and diverse pressures             social health of all people. It is an
                                                                                     affront to human dignity.
on the quality and quantity of water resources and on access to them. Nowhere
                                                                                     Kofi Annan, United Nations Secretary-General
are the pressures felt so strongly as at the interface of water and human health.

Infectious, water-related diseases are a major cause of morbidity and mortality

worldwide. Although a significant proportion of this immense burden of disease

is caused by ‘classical’ water-related pathogens, such as typhoid and cholera,

newly-recognized pathogens and new strains of established pathogens are being

discovered that present important additional challenges to both the water and
public health sectors. Between 1972 and 1999, 35 new agents of disease were

discovered and many more have re-emerged after long periods of inactivity, or

are expanding into areas where they have not previously been reported.

Amongst this group are pathogens that may be transmitted by water.

Understanding why pathogens emerge or re-emerge is fundamental to effective

water resource management, drinking-water treatment and delivery, and has

become a priority for many national and international organizations. It is also

important to be able to gauge the risk from any emerging disease. The perceived

severity of risk and significance of an emerging infectious disease may be so far

removed from reality that there is potential for inappropriate allocation of

resources. This can have repercussions for countries at all stages of development.

Investigating important emerging issues in water and infectious disease and

communicating discoveries create unique challenges, which are addressed

by an initiative being taken by the World Health Organization (WHO), and

collaborators. The initiative seeks to accelerate the identification of actual

and perceived issues, to bring together information and knowledge in critical

areas, and to disseminate information to policy makers and practitioners in a

timely fashion.

We are pleased to issue this publication to broaden awareness of emerging issues

in water and infectious disease and to guide readers to sources of information

that deal with these issues in greater depth.




                                                                                                           3
    CONTENTS

    Evolution of infectious disease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
    Emerging waterborne pathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
    New environments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
    New technologies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
    Scientific advances in water microbiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
    Changes in human behaviour and vulnerability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15




4
E VO L U T I O N O F I N F E C T I O U S
DISEASE



Nothing in the world of living things is permanently fixed.
Hans Zinnser. Rats, Lice and History (1935)



Pathogenic (disease-causing) micro-organisms have repeatedly altered the course

of human history. From the earliest examples of art, literature and scientific

writing, the devastating consequences for the populations gripped by diseases of

different kinds and severity have been documented in great detail. For example,

the influenza pandemic between 1918 and 1920 resulted in an estimated 70

million deaths worldwide. Even today, the overall burden of infectious disease

remains high. In 2001, infectious diseases accounted for an estimated 26% of

deaths worldwide (Kindhauser, 2003).

In the context of scientific and medical history, microbiology emerged relatively

recently as a specialist discipline. Although micro-organisms had been observed

in the 17th century and some workers had speculated about the germ theory of

infectious disease before the 19th century, the science of microbiology did not

become established until after 1850. The skills and perseverance of the early

pioneers, combined with advances in analytical tools and techniques, added

rapidly to the growing catalogue of pathogens. By
                                                                         I discovered, in a tiny drop of water, incredibly many very little
2001, a total of 1415 species of infectious organisms
                                                                         animalcules, and these of diverse sorts and sizes. They moved with
known to be pathogenic to humans had been                                bendings, as an eel always swims with its head in front, and never
                                                                         tail first, yet these animalcules swam as well backwards as
recorded. Whilst many of these organisms are
                                                                         forwards, though their motion was very slow.
associated with diseases that have been known for                        Antony van Leeuwenhoek (1632 – 1723)

many years, a small but significant percentage are

associated with emerging diseases, such as Acquired Immunodeficiency

Syndrome (AIDS), Ebola and most recently Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome

(SARS). Indeed, the transmission of the coronavirus responsible for SARS

through ‘faecal droplets’ has re-focused attention on this recognized route of

transmission of some viruses.



                              Respiratory Transmission of Faecally
                              Excreted Viruses*
                              The transmission of the coronavirus responsible for Severe
                              Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) through ‘faecal droplets’ has
                              re-focused attention on this recognized route of transmission of
                              some viruses.This document reviews what is known about
                              viruses transmitted by this route and the adequacy of control
                              measures, including building design and management, and
                              plumbing practices.




*   This publication is expected in 2004                                                                             5
                                                            Water-related infectious diseases, such as cholera, have also influenced social

                                                            and political development. Since 1817 at least seven cholera pandemics have

                                                            been recorded and most have provided specific examples of issues of pathogen

                                                            emergence, or have significantly influenced public health reforms and the

                                                            development of microbiology.

                                                            Investigating the history of many diseases demonstrates clearly that the

                                                            evolution of both humans and pathogens is interlinked: human migration has

                                                            disseminated infectious disease or brought people into contact with new
                                                                                         pathogens; global environmental change has
Selected cholera pandemics since 1817 and principal outcomes                             expanded the range of known pathogens or created
Dates           Principal outcomes
                                                                                         the conditions for indigenous micro-organisms to
1817–1823       Possible emergence of a more virulent strain of Vibrio cholerae
                (V. cholerae). Global trade with the Indian sub-continent carried        emerge as significant human pathogens; modern
                the cholera vibrio around the world.
                                                                                         techniques in animal husbandry, as well as some of
1829–1851       Waterborne transmission of V. cholerae established.
1852–1859       First isolation of cholera bacterium. Fear of cholera stimulated         the more traditional methods of livestock farming,
                international co-operation in health.
                                                                                         create a risk from new zoonotic diseases (an
1881–1896       Conclusive demonstration that cholera was caused by a bacterium.
1961–           Emergence of V. cholerae O1, biotype El Tor.                             infectious disease which normally circulates in an
1992–           Emergence of V. cholerae O139.
                                                                                         animal host but that can be contracted by humans).




                                                            E M E R G I N G W AT E R B O R N E
                                                            P AT H O G E N S
                                                            WHAT ARE EMERGING PATHOGENS?


                                                            Long before the advent of modern medical care, industrialized
                                                            countries decreased their levels of water-related disease through
                                                            good water management. Yet, even in these countries, outbreaks of
                                                            waterborne disease continue to occur, sometimes with lethal
                                                            consequences. In developing countries, water-related disease
                                                            blights the lives of the poor.
                                                            Gro Harlem Brundtland, WHO Director-General, (2001)



                                                            Emerging pathogens are those that have appeared in a human population for the

                                                            first time, or have occurred previously but are increasing in incidence or expanding

                                                            into areas where they have not previously been reported, usually over the last 20

                                                            years (WHO, 1997). Re-emerging pathogens are those whose incidence is increasing

                                                            as a result of long-term changes in their underlying epidemiology (Woolhouse,

                                                            2002). By these criteria, 175 species of infectious agent from 96 different genera

                                                            are classified as emerging pathogens. Of this group, 75% are zoonotic species.

In 2001, a review of the scientific literature identified   Improved methods of surveillance, epidemiological studies and the continuous
1415 species of infectious organisms known to be
                                                            development of more advanced methods of diagnosis have allowed us to detect
pathogenic to humans, including 217 viruses and
prions, 538 bacteria and rickettsiae, 307 fungi, 66         new pathogenic species of micro-organism or to associate a known micro-organism
protozoa and 287 helminths. Of these, 61% were
                                                            with a new or atypical set of disease symptoms. Furthermore, the agents of several
zoonotic and 12% were associated with diseases
considered to be emerging (Taylor, Latham &                 diseases that were thought to have been controlled are re-emerging as a result of
Woolhouse, 2001).
                                                            adaptive changes in the pathogen, changes to the immunological status of the

                              6
host, or environmental, demographic and socio-economic changes. Each of these

pathogens represents a public health problem.

Developments in our understanding of the relationships between water and

human health have been characterized by the periodic recognition of previously

unknown pathogens or of the water-related significance of recognized




                                                                                                                                                                    Photo: FP Williams, USEPA
pathogens. Several studies have confirmed that water-related diseases not only

remain a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, but that the

spectrum of disease is expanding and the incidence of many water-related
                                                                                                                                      Rotavirus
microbial diseases is increasing. Since 1970, several species of micro-organism

from human and animal faeces and from environmental sources, including

water, have been confirmed as pathogens. Examples include Cryptosporidium,
Legionella, Escherichia coli O157 (E. coli O157), rotavirus, hepatitis E virus and
norovirus (formerly Norwalk virus). Furthermore, the importance of water in

the transmission of recognized pathogens is being continually assessed as new




                                                                                                                                                                    Photo: HDA Lindquist, USEPA
tools become available through advances in science, technology and

epidemiology. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is an example of a recently emerged

pathogen that may be transmitted through water.


  There is a strong link between H. pylori infection and gastric cancer in many                                                       Cryptosporidium and Giardia
  countries, but there are large intercountry variations in incidence of gastric cancer
  and H. pylori seroprevalence seen among many Asian countries. For example, the
  prevalence of H. pylori infection is high in India and Bangladesh, but low gastric
  cancer rates have been reported. Factors that may influence the etiology of gastric
  cancer include the genetic diversity of the infecting H. pylori strains and differences
  in the host genetic background in various ethnic groups. These factors, in addition
  to environmental factors, such as personal hygiene and dietary habits, reflect the
  multifactorial etiology of gastric cancer (Miwa, Sakaki & Sugiyama, 2002). A number
  of studies have demonstrated that H. pylori survives in water although isolation of
  H. pylori from water systems has been shown to be difficult.



Similarly, water-related vector-borne pathogens have been (re-) emerging over the

past 20 years. To a large extent this has been caused by the emergence and spread

of drug-resistant parasites (for example, the Plasmodium species causing malaria)

  Rate of discovery of emerging pathogens 1970 – 2000
  (Adapted from Desselberg, 2000)
                                            18

                                            16
   Number of infectious agents identified




                                            14

                                            12



                                            8

                                            6

                                            4

                                            2

                                            0
                                                              1970                               1980                          1990
                                                                                                Decade
                                                 Total number of infectious agents identified         Number of viruses/prions
                                                 Number of bacteria/rickettsiae                       Number of protozoa




                                                                                                                                                                7
                                      Major etiological agents of infectious diseases identified since 1972
                                      Year           Agent                             Disease
                                      1972           Small round structured viruses    Diarrhoea
                                      1973           Rotaviruses                       Infantile diarrhoea
                                      1975           Astroviruses                      Diarrhoea
                                      1975           Parvovirus B19                    Aplastic crisis in chronic haemolytic anaemia
                                      1976           Cryptosporidium parvum            Acute enterocolitis
                                      1977           Ebola virus                       Ebola haemorrhagic fever
                                      1977           Legionella pneumophila            Legionnaires’ disease
                                      1977           Hantaan virus                     Haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome
                                      1977           Campylobacter spp.                Diarrhoea
                                      1980           Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1(HTLV-1) Adult T-cell leukaemia/ HTLV-1 associated myelopathy
                                      1982           HTLV-2                            Hairy T-cell leukaemia
                                      1982           Borrelia burgdorferi              Lyme disease
                                      1983           HIV-1, HIV-2                      Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
                                      1983           Escherichia coli O157:H7          Haemorrhagic colitis; haemolytic uremic syndrome
                                      1983           Helicobacter pylori               Gastritis, gastric ulcers, increased risk of gastric cancer
                                      1988           Human herpesvirus-6               Exanthema subitum
                                      1989           Ehrlichia spp.                    Human ehrlichiosis
                                      1989           Hepatitis C virus                 Parenterally transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis
                                      1990           Human herpesvirus-7               Exanthema subitum
                                      1990           Hepatitis E virus                 Enterically transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis
                                      1991           Hepatitis F virus                 Severe non-A, non-B hepatitis
                                      1992           Vibrio cholerae O139:H7           New strain associated with epidemic cholera
                                      1992           Bartonella henselae               CAT-scratch disease, bacillary angiomatosis
                                      1993           Sin nombre virus                  Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome
                                      1993           Hepatitis G virus                 Non A-C hepatitis
                                      1994           Sabia virus                       Brazilian haemorrhagic fever
                                      1994           Human herpesvirus-8               Kaposi’s sarcoma
                                      1995           Hendravirus                       Castleman’s disease
                                      1996           Prion (BSE)                       Meningitis, encephalitis
                                      1997           Influenza A virus                 New variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
                                      1997           Transfusion-transmitted virus
                                      1997           Enterovirus 71                    Epidemic encephalitis
                                      1998           Nipah virus                       Meningitis, encephalitis
                                      1999           Influenza A virus                 Influenza (Hong Kong)
                                      1999           West Nile-like virus              Encephalitis (New York)
                                      (Desselberg, 2000)



Distribution of emerging pathogens                                  An outbreak of arboviral encephalitis was first recognized in New York City in
by group                                                            1999. The cause of the outbreak was confirmed as a West Nile-like virus. Before
                      helminths                                     and concurrent with this outbreak, local health officials observed increased fatalities
                      6%
                                                                    among New York City birds, especially crows. Tissue specimens from these birds
           protozoa
           11%                                                      with pathologic evidence of encephalitis were reported as positive for West Nile-like
                                                                    virus sequence by genomic analysis, implying these as the vectors. Four human
   fungi                                         viruses or
                                                                    deaths occurred among elderly persons. One case-patient with onset in late
   9%                                            prions 44%         August reported a history of travel to Africa completed in June 1999.Vector
                                                                    control measures were initiated to control the host-seeking adult Culex pipiens
                                                                    mosquito population (MMWR, 1999).

  bacteria or
  rickettsia 30 %                                                and of insecticide-resistant vectors. Changing environments linked to such

The distribution of emerging pathogens according                 trends as intensified water resources development and urbanization, and the
to the main group of micro-organisms to which
                                                                 accompanying demographic changes, have created conditions where vector-borne
they belong.The figure shows that nearly half of all
emerging pathogens are viruses or prions (adapted                diseases can gain new strongholds. International travel has contributed to the
from Taylor, Latham & Woolhouse, 2001).
                                                                 spread of pathogens to areas where the vector was already present but so far

                                                                 innocuous (for example, West Nile virus in North America).




                                  8
WHY DO PATHOGENS EMERGE?

There are many reasons why human pathogens emerge or re-emerge after a long

period of inactivity, but most have a common theme and may be grouped under

a few general headings: new environments, new technologies, scientific

advances, and changes in human behaviour and vulnerability.

Some factors associated with emerging issues in water and infectious disease, for

example, agricultural and wastewater management practices, may be anticipated

and subsequently controlled by implementing appropriate resource protection

and management strategies. Others, such as demographic, behavioural changes
and socio-economic factors, also may be anticipated, but the outcomes are

unpredictable and appropriate control measures difficult to implement.


  Potential drivers of the emergence and re-emergence of pathogens in water
  New environments:                                         New technologies:
  ■ Climate shifts/deforestation                            ■ Water resources development projects

  ■ Water resources development projects                      (dams and irrigation)
    (dams and irrigation)                                   ■ Water-cooled air conditioning plants

  ■ Water-cooled air conditioning plants                    ■ Changing industrial and agricultural practices

  ■ Changing industrial and agricultural practices          ■ Waterborne sewage and sewage treatment

    (eg intensive livestock rearing)                          alternatives
  ■ Piped water systems and their inadequate design

    and operation
  ■ An increasing number of humanitarian emergencies



  Changes in human behaviour and vulnerability:             Scientific advances:
  ■ Human circulation and the accessibility and             ■ Inappropriate, excessive use of anitbiotics

    rapidity of transport worldwide                           anti-parasitic drugs and public health insecticides
  ■ Demographic changes                                     ■ Changing industrial and agricultural practices

  ■ Increasing size of high risk populations                ■ Improved methods of detection and analysis

  ■ Deliberate and accidental release of                    ■ Inappropriate use of new generation insecticides

    pathogens to water
  ■ An increasing number of humanitarian emergencies




NEW ENVIRONMENTS
The interplay between the host and the pathogen is a complex one, each driven

by the need to secure the success of the species. Adaptations by one partner

to exploit new environments will often stimulate the other to modify its

characteristics to take advantage of the change. As a consequence of this cycle

of interaction created by changing environments, new strains of pathogen will

evolve. Over time, these strains may emerge as new species with characteristic

disease symptoms.

There is a large portfolio of case studies demonstrating how dams and irrigation
schemes have led to the spread of malaria, schistosomiasis, filariasis and Japanese

encephalitis. Furthermore, climate change is expanding the range of mosquito

species responsible for the transmission of the malarial parasite and the dengue

virus. The widespread use of water-based cooling towers for industrial

air-conditioning was the catalyst for the first major outbreaks of Legionnaires'
                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                               Disease. Thus, new environments can favour the proliferation of pathogens or
                                                      In Sri Lanka, the introduction of Japanese
                                                      encephalitis in rehabilitated rice irrigation schemes    their vectors and bring about contact with a previously-unexposed population.
                                                      under the accelerated Mahaweli Development
                                                      Project shows the intricacies of environmental           Dams are one of the most visible examples of human engineering being used to
                                                      change.With intensified irrigation, the population of
                                                                                                               create a new environment. The Aswan High Dam in Egypt, for example, created
                                                      Culex mosquitoes increased rapidly.Yet, the critical
                                                      factor was a programme to promote pig rearing as         a lake, Lake Nassar, 480 km long by up to 16 km wide from the River Nile: a
                                                      a secondary source of income for local
                                                                                                               body of flowing water, replaced by a larger body of relatively static water.
                                                      communities. Pigs serve as amplifying hosts for the
                                                      virus and the combination of intensified irrigation      Although the Aswan Dam has brought commercial benefits to Egypt, it has also
                                                      and pigs led to serious outbreaks of Japanese
                                                                                                               been a factor in the redistribution of the two species of snail, Bulinus truncatus
                                                      encephalitis in the region.
                                                                                                               and Biomphalaria alexandrina, which are the intermediate hosts in the transmission

                                                                                                               of schistosomiasis. The redistribution of the snails has been used to explain the

                                                                                                               decreasing prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis and the increasing prevalence

                                                                                                               of schistosomal nephritis in the region. More recently, the construction of the

                                                                                                               Diama Dam at the mouth of the Senegal River (1988) led to the single largest

                                                                                                               outbreak of intestinal schistosomiasis ever recorded in Africa, south of the Sahara.

                                                                                                               The Legionella bacterium provides another example of the significance of new
                                                                                                               environments to emerging pathogens. In 1976 a large outbreak of pneumonia

                                                                                                               was reported amongst delegates at an American Legion Convention in

                                                                                                               Philadelphia, USA. The etiological agent, Legionella pneumophila, was identified


                                                                                                                                      Toxic Cyanobacteria in Water
                                                                                                                                      Edited by I. Chorus and J.Bartram.
                                                                                                                                      Eutrophication has been recognized as a growing concern since
                                                                                                                                      the 1950’s. Recently, cyanobacterial toxins became widely
                                                                                                                                      recognized as a human health problem arising as a consequence
                                                                                                                                      of eutrophication. Cyanotoxins may cause waterborne disease
                                                                                                                                      when ingested, and contact through recreational exposure.
                                                                                                                                      Health problems attributable to the presence of such toxins
                                                                                                                 have been reported in a number of countries, including Australia, Brazil, China,
                                                                                                                 England, South Africa and the USA.
                                                                                                                   This book describes the present state of knowledge regarding the impact of
Photo: Peter Furu, Danish Bilharziasis Laboratory




                                                                                                                 cyanobacteria on health through the use of water. It is an invaluable source of
                                                                                                                 information for environmental health officers and professionals in the field of water
                                                                                                                 supply, freshwater ecology, public health and health education, as well as for student
                                                                                                                 groups and consumer groups.



                                                                                                                 Gastro-enteritis epidemic in the area of the Itaparica Dam,
                                                                                                                 Bahia, Brazil
                                                                                                                 A severe gastro-enteritis epidemic in the Paulo Afonso region of Bahia State in
                                                    A single scoop of snails along the dam wall of a heavily     Brazil followed the flooding of the newly constructed Itaparica Dam reservoir in
                                                    snail infested reservoir (Lougourougoumbo, Mali).            1988. Some 2000 gastro-enteritis cases, 88 of which resulted in death, were
                                                                                                                 reported over a 42-day period.
                                                                                                                    Clinical data and water sample tests were reviewed, blood and faecal specimens
                                                                                                                 from patients were subjected to bacteriological, virological and toxicological testing
                                                                                                                 and drinking-water samples were examined for micro-organisms and heavy metals.
                                                                                                                 The results demonstrated that the source of the outbreak was water impounded by
                                                                                                                 the dam and pointed to toxin produced by cyanobacteria present in the water as
                                                                                                                 the responsible agent. No other infectious agent or toxin was identified, and cases
                                                                                                                 occurred in patients who had been drinking only boiled water.The cases were
                                                                                                                 restricted to areas supplied with drinking water from the dam.
                                                                                                                    Cyanobacteria of the Anabaena and Microcystis genera were present in untreated
                                                                                                                 water at 1104 to 9755 units per ml.

                                                                                   10
later, and only after an exhaustive microbiological investigation. The disease

became known as Legionnaires’ Disease. Legionella bacteria are now known to

be a normal part of the aquatic microflora. The design of domestic hot and cold

water systems, specialist leisure pools and water-cooled air-conditioning plants

create conditions that suit the growth of Legionella bacteria. Many water systems

produce fine aerosols at some stage in their use providing a dispersion

mechanism that proved to be an effective route of infection. Legionella is an

example of a natural, environmental bacterium that has exploited a niche within

man-made water systems and, by chance, emerged as a significant pathogen.




                                                                                                                                                         Photo: Peter Furu, Danish Bilharziasis Laboratory
NEW TECHNOLOGIES
More often than not, new technologies have a neutral impact on the ecology of

pathogens, but some technologies accidentally introduce new routes of exposure

between humans and pathogens. This is particularly evident when dealing with

technologies that are used in water treatment, storage and distribution.
                                                                                            Domestic water contact in a schistosomiasis infested
New water treatment, storage and distribution technologies are being developed              area of the man-made Lake Selingue in Mali
                                                                                            (Faraba Village).
to improve and maintain the quality of drinking-water. Many of these technologies

will have significant benefits, but unforeseen problems with a few may introduce

new risks, such as harmful by-products or pathways of transmission that may
lead to the re-emergence of water-related pathogens. Each time a risk is identified,

systems are developed to eliminate or reduce the risk that may, in turn, increase

or decrease other risks. In the context of new technologies, water distribution

systems show how an engineering solution to one
                                                              The use of technology to treat water is not a modern innovation. Greek and
problem can create new opportunities for contact              Sanskrit texts dating back 6000 years contain guidance on the use of charcoal
                                                              filters, boiling, straining and exposure to sunlight to improve the aesthetic quality of
between humans and water-related pathogens.
                                                              drinking-water. Over 4000 years ago, the Egyptians used coagulants to reduce the
                                                              turbidity of water. With the development of large conurbations throughout the
The effectiveness of slow-sand filtration to remove
                                                              Roman Empire (from 200BC), intricate drinking-water distribution and waterborne
pathogens from drinking-water before it enters the            sanitation systems were introduced in order to protect the quality of supplies.
                                                              These piped water systems offered great benefits to the population being served;
distribution system was demonstrated spectacularly
                                                              however, the potential for disseminating pathogens was greatly increased if the source
during the outbreak of cholera in Germany in                  protection and rudimentary treatment systems were breached. Piped distribution
                                                              without adequate treatment can spread contamination to large populations.
1892. Hamburg suffered a very high mortality

amongst its population, whilst neighbouring

Altona, which abstracted water from the same source as Hamburg but used

treatment by slow-sand filtration, escaped the worst ravages of the cholera.

Slow-sand filters occupy large areas of land and so rapid-sand filtration was

introduced as an alternative technology. Yet, in order to maintain their

efficiency, rapid-sand filters must be cleaned regularly by ‘backwashing’.

Producers can reduce costs by recycling the backwash water. Cryptosporidium
oocysts are concentrated on the filters during normal operation. Recycling

backwash water to the raw water flow can return large numbers of oocysts to the

treatment plant at a time when the plant is potentially vulnerable to breakthrough.

This practice has lead to outbreaks of disease.
                                                                                                                      11
                                                                Chlorine is the most widely-used drinking-water disinfectant. It was first used

                                                                for treating water by John Snow (1845) as he intervened to control the outbreak

                                                                of cholera in London, but it was not until 1897 that it was used to disinfect a

                                                                potable water distribution main. The use of chlorine disinfection has made an
                                 Sanitation, Sewage and
                                                                immense contribution to the safety of drinking-water supplies, yet, recently, the
                                 Emerging Health Issues*
                            Water safety management             limitations of chlorine and some disadvantages linked to its use have been
                            relies largely on identifying
                                                                widely publicised:
                            hazards and ensuring that
                            adequate control measures
                                                                ■   Although chlorine is effective against most vegetative bacteria and viruses
                            are available.The proper
                            management of excreta through           when used at the normal concentration for treatment, it will not inactivate
       the use of appropriate sanitation acts as the
                                                                    Cryptosporidium oocysts. Furthermore, chlorine has a very limited effect
       primary barrier to prevent the spread of pathogens
       in the environment. However, faecal contamination            upon pathogens growing in biofilms. So while its use reduces overall risks,
       of water resources remains a major cause of
                                                                    it changes the relative impact of different pathogens.
       concern worldwide.
          Identification of new hazards occurs relatively
                                                                ■   Traces of chemical by-products of chlorine disinfection have raised public
       frequently, both for microbial pathogens and chemical
       agents. In some cases controls orientated towards            concern about potential long-term but small risks from chemically treated
       other hazards prove adequate; in other cases control
                                                                    water. Inappropriate decisions made about the risks from chemical
       strategies require review.This book provides an
       authoritative review and discussion of these issues.         contamination versus the need to maintain microbiological safety to protect

                                                                    consumers from imminent high microbial risks have been implicated in the

                                                                    re-emergence of pathogens.

                                                                Despite the treatment of source water and the use of chlorine disinfectant,

                                                                contamination of piped water supply continues to occur, without necessarily
                                 Waterborne Zoonoses*
                                                                causing large easy-to-recognize outbreaks, through leaks, or at other vulnerable
                             The majority of recognized
                             emerging and re-emerging           parts of the system, and during maintenance work. Once in the system, bacteria,
                             human pathogens are zoonotic.
                                                                fungi and protozoa can attach to the inner surfaces of the pipes and some may
                             Whether these newly widespread
                             pathogens are within the           grow to produce biofilms. Some biofilms have been shown to contain one or more
                             current envelope of control
                                                                species of emerging pathogen, including Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC).
                             of waste and source water
        management, drinking-water treatment technology
                                                                Recent analysis of the pathogens regarded as emerging has shown that they are
        and transmission will determine whether these
        organisms will become newly significant drinking-       not a random subset of all pathogens, but that they share certain characteristics.
        water risk factors. Identification of those high-risk
                                                                Zoonotic pathogens, for example, are almost twice as likely to be regarded as
        candidates and their characteristics will allow any
        necessary adjustments to be made in the drinking-       emerging or re-emerging than non-zoonotic pathogens. This observation has
        water management cycle in the hopes of avoiding
                                                                implications for intensive livestock farming, which frequently can result in the
        their potential impact upon human health.
          Addressing the significant percentage of emerging     discharge of pathogens into water from concentrated animal wastes and animal-
        pathogens which are zoonotic species, this book
                                                                feeding operations. Several species of emerging water-related pathogen have
        attempts to analyse the wealth of information from
        diverse areas to gain insights into the nature of
        possibly as-yet unrecognized and yet-to-emerge                                     In recent years there has been increasing concern to
        waterborne pathogens that may arise from zoonotic                                  reduce the pollutants within urban stormwater discharges,
        sources. It is oriented towards identifying those                                  particularly combined sewer overflows (CSOs). Gibson
                                                                                                                                                          Photo: Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District




        hazards that may stress existing control strategies.                               et al. (1998) found Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia
                                                                                           cysts were commonly observed at higher levels in discharge
                                                                                           from CSO end-of-pipe samples taken during wet weather
                                                                                           conditions compared to concentrations in samples taken
                                                                                           from an urban dry stream in dry weather.This preliminary
                                                                                           study suggests that CSOs may significantly contribute to the
                                                                                           load of Cryptosporidium and Giardia in ambient waters and
                                                                                           source waters used for recreational use and potable water.


*   This publication is expected in 2004   12
been recognized from these sources, including Cryptosporidium, E. coli O157

and Campylobacter. This example shows how a substantial enhancement of a

long-term practice can impact watercourses in ways that are not anticipated.


                              Pathogenic Mycobacteria in Water*
                         Previously unrecognized or under-appreciated pathogens continue
                         to be recognized to be associated with the waterborne route
                         and as being of public health significance. Mycobacterium avium
                         complex has been a leading cause of death amongst HIV positive
                         populations. Recently, incidence of two of the three diseases       Rat populations thrive where there is human
                         associated with MAC (pulmonary MAC and lymphadenitis)               activity. A substantial proportion of above-ground
                         appears to be increasing.                                           infestations are linked to defects in sewerage
      There is also evidence of the role that drinking-water plays in the development of     infrastructure, and only the presence of watercourses
    MAC-related illness.This book provides information on the Mycobacterium avium            and ditches is a more frequent source (Battersby,
    complex and other pathogenic mycobacteria in water. The book reviews the organisms,      2002). Brown rats (Rattus norvegicus) commonly
    their health significance, procedures for investigation and study in water, and weighs   called the sewer rat have been found infected with a
    up the evidence that water is a significant route for transmission.                      greater range of zoonoses than previously thought.
                                                                                             For example in England Cryptosporidium parvum has




                                                                                                                                                      Photo: John Wharam and Daffyd S R Baker, Kingston upon Hull City Council
                                                                                             been found in rats on farms at 63% prevalence and
                                                                                             Toxoplasma gondii at 35% (Webster & MacDonald,
S C I E N T I F I C A DVA N C E S I N                                                        1995). In urban areas 11% of a sample of rats were
                                                                                             found infected with T. gondii. In Milan (Italy) 36% of
W AT E R M I C R O B I O L O G Y                                                             a sample of wild rats were found to have liver
                                                                                             lesions consistent with Capillaria hepatica infection
DETECTION AND ENUMERATION OF PATHOGENS
                                                                                             (Ceruti et al, 2001).Wild brown rats have been
                                                                                             found infected with Yersinia enterocolitica at a
The history of pathogen discovery broadly describes a cycle of events beginning
                                                                                             prevalence of between 2% in urban rats (Battersby
with a disease of unknown etiology, development of analytical techniques, and                et al, 2002) and 11% in rural rats (Webster &
                                                                                             MacDonald, 1995). Some 34% of rural rats were
identification of the etiological agent. Advances in analytical techniques are a
                                                                                             found positive for the antibodies of Coxiella burnetii
fundamental component of the exploration of emerging pathogens. By increasing                (Q Fever) in England (Webster & MacDonald, 1995).

our capacity to concentrate and detect micro-organisms in water samples, we

can recognize new pathogens and associate known micro-organisms with

diseases of unknown etiology. However, despite advances in diagnostic

technology water-related disease of unknown etiology remains a significant

percentage of the total outbreaks of disease. Published statistics from the USA

show that between 1991 and 2000, the etiological agent of around 40%

of drinking-water associated outbreaks was not identified.

Following the conception of the germ theory of infectious disease, methods for

the isolation and identification of micro-organisms developed rapidly. During the

first half of the 20th century the power of analytical techniques was enhanced

by improved culture media for the selection and enumeration of pathogens, and

new techniques for visualization of organisms and their cellular structures. Using

these techniques, many water-related bacterial and protozoal pathogens were

isolated and characterized. The discovery of techniques for growing mammalian

viruses in cell culture further expanded the list of water-related pathogens.

In 1972 and 1973 the use of high-resolution microscopy, antibody techniques

and genetic analysis identified two groups of viruses that were the causative

agents of diarrhoea: small round structured viruses (caliciviruses) and

rotaviruses. Subsequent work has shown these two groups to be amongst the

*   This publication is expected in 2004                                                                           13
                       Heterotrophic Plate                major causes of diarrhoea worldwide and a significant cause of mortality
                       Count and Drinking-
                                                          amongst children in developing countries.
                       water Safety
                       Edited by: J.Bartram,
                                                          Possibly the most revolutionary advance in analytical technology during the last
                       J.Cotruvo, M.Exner,
                       C. Fricker and A. Glasmacher.      30 years was the discovery of a simple, but effective method of amplifying very
                       High levels of microbial
                                                          specific regions of an organism's genetic material. The technique, called the
                       growth can affect the taste
                       and odour of drinking-water        Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), is now widely used in medical, forensic and
and may indicate the presence of contamination
                                                          environmental laboratories. Not only does the method allow investigators to
posing a challenge to public water utilities.This text
addresses the ‘heterotrophic plate count’ test            discriminate between micro-organisms from different sources, it can be used to
which is widely used in drinking-water assessment:
                                                          detect extremely small quantities of the nucleic acid: equivalent to a single
what it detects (and what it does not detect), its
direct and indirect health significance and its use in    micro-organism. Detection of nucleic acid by PCR does not necessarily indicate
the safety management of drinking-water supplies.
                                                          that viable infective organisms are present, but it is an excellent exploratory tool.


                      Evaluation of the
                                                                       Drinking-water disease outbreaks of unknown etiology in the
                      H2S method for
                                                                       USA 1990–2000
                                                                                 Drinking-water disease outbreaks of unknown etiology in the USA 1990–2000
                      Detection of Faecal                                     100
                      Contamination of
                      Drinking-water                                          90

                       In recent years a number of                            80
                       alternative indicators and tests
                                                                              70
                       to detect faecal contamination
of drinking-water have been proposed and                                      60
                                                           Percent of total




developed. Some of these are simple, low cost and
                                                                              50
do not require a microbiology laboratory or
bacteriological field-test kit. Prominent among                               40

these is the so-called hydrogen sulphide or H2S                               30
test, which is intended to detect or quantify
                                                                              20
hydrogen sulphide-producing bacteria, largely
associated with faecal contamination.                                         10

  This relatively simple, low cost test has been
                                                                               0
studied, modified in various ways, tested and used                                  1991–92     1993–94         1995–96         1997–98         1999–2000
                                                                                                                  Year
to some extent in many parts of the world as an
indicator of faecal contamination of drinking-water.
  This book reviews the basis of the hydrogen             A significant number of the viruses associated with water-related disease
sulphide test as a measure of faecal contamination
                                                          outbreaks cannot be grown in the laboratory using conventional culture
of drinking-water and the available scientific and
empirical evidence for and against the test as a valid,   techniques. The use of PCR methods for the analysis of pathogens in water has
useful and reliable measure of faecal contamination
                                                          been fundamental to our understanding of the distribution of some of the most
and drinking-water quality.
                                                          important water-related viral pathogens: for example noroviruses, rotaviruses

                                                          and hepatitis E virus.

                                                          Other recently-developed technologies are being assessed for their application in

                                                          water microbiology. Flow cytometery is a powerful technique using laser light to

                                                          quantify particles or to recognize structural features of cells. By measuring the scatter

                                                          and wavelength of light as a particle intercepts the beam, information can be gained

                                                          that allows the rapid quantification of the organisms. The analytical capability of

                                                          the technique can be further enhanced by use of fluorescent monoclonal antibodies

                                                          that are specific for a particular pathogen. Using this, and other fibre optic

                                                          technologies, we are presented with the potential to detect and quantify water-related

                                                          pathogens in real time. The implications of these advances to the management of

                                                          water quality and the protection of public health may be far reaching.
                             14
DEVELOPING EFFECTIVE MONITORING                                                                                Guidelines for
                                                                                                               Drinking-water
The recognition of emerging and re-emerging pathogens does not rely solely                                     Quality
                                                                                                                The WHO Guidelines for
upon the development of new analytical methods. The reassessment of methods
                                                                                                                Drinking-water Quality are the
in the context of improved knowledge about the health risks from water-related                                  international reference point
                                                                                                                for standard setting and
disease leads to evolving interpretation of findings. This is a feature of many of
                                                                                                                drinking-water safety.The
the publications listed throughout this brochure.                                                               Guidelines are supported by
                                                                                       other publications explaining how they were
WHO has recognized the limitation of many established methods for monitoring           derived and to assist in implementing safe water
                                                                                       activities.To keep pace with new developments the
water quality when it comes to predicting the presence of known pathogens.
                                                                                       Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality are under
New approaches to health-related monitoring are being introduced that can              constant rolling revision.Thus the development of
                                                                                       the third edition of the Guidelines for Drinking-water
overcome many of the weaknesses of current methods and provide additional
                                                                                       Quality (2004) includes a substantive revision of
tools for reducing disease risks. Water Safety Plans (WSPs) are an approach to         approaches to ensuring microbial safety.This takes
                                                                                       account of important developments in microbial
drinking-water safety management that has its roots in the multiple barrier
                                                                                       risk assessment and its linkages to risk management.
principle of water treatment, and the Hazard Assessment of Critical Control               Information on updating the Guidelines is
                                                                                       available on the Internet http://www.who.int/
Points (HACCP) approach to the safety of foods. The primary objectives of a
                                                                                       water_sanitation_health/GDWQ/index.html.
WSP in ensuring good drinking-water supply practice are the prevention of

contamination of source waters, the reduction or removal of contamination

through treatment processes to meet health-based targets, and the prevention of

contamination during storage, distribution and handling. WSPs are a central

component of the 3rd edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality.
This approach to water quality management presents challenges for process

monitoring and puts new demands on analysis.




CHANGES IN HUMAN
B E H AV I O U R A N D
VULNERABILITY
IMMUNE STATUS

The immune system provides an efficient line of defence against infection. During

the life of an individual, the immune system develops, matures and eventually

wanes. At birth the immune system offers little protection against infection, but

it develops rapidly in response to stimulants in the environment, infectious

disease organisms, and from contact with other people. After a few years the

body has acquired an elaborate system of cellular and humoral immunity that

can rapidly neutralize an infectious agent as well as set up a barrier against

future infection by the same agent. In later life, the efficiency of the immune

system begins to wane and the body is once again more susceptible to infection.

Factors apart from age can affect the effectiveness of the immune system: for

example, the individual’s level of nutrition and fitness, stress, excessive exposure

to ultraviolet irradiation, and pregnancy. Some, however, can have a devastating

impact on the immune system. The transplantation of organs, such as the heart,


                                                                                                             15
                                                         liver and kidneys, is followed by the long-term administration of

                                                         immunosuppressive drugs to prevent rejection of the new organ. Cancer

                                                         treatment often involves procedures that reduce the effectiveness of the immune

                                                         system. Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), itself a recent

                                                         emerging pathogen, severely impairs the host's cellular immune system,

                                                         eventually leading to AIDS.

                                                         In combination, the ageing of the world's population, the use of

                                                         immunosuppressive procedures, and the global spread of HIV/AIDS have
                                                                                       created a large and growing population with
Microsporidia are obligate, intracellular spore-forming protozoa. About 1000
                                                                                       impaired immune systems. This group of people is
species of microsporidia have been recognized, mainly as parasites of fish and
invertebrates. In a susceptible human host, infection by the organism can cause        highly susceptible to infection by organisms that
chronic diarrhoea, dehydration and weight loss. Human disease caused by
                                                                                       may be of little or no threat to immunocompetent
microsporidia was largely unknown before the emergence of HIV, and subsequent
recorded cases of the disease, in the main, have been confined to HIV-infected         individuals, or have a greater risk of mortality from
immunocompromised individuals and organ transplant recipients who are being
                                                                                       normally-benign infections. Several pathogens have
treated with immunosuppressive drugs (Franzen & Müller, 1999). Waterborne
outbreaks of microsporidiosis have been recorded and, once again, the cases            emerged or are re-emerging within the
have been largely limited to immunocompromised individuals (Slifko, Smith
                                                                                       immunocompromised population eg.
& Rose, 2000).
                                                                                       Cryptosporidium and MAC.



                                                         BREAKDOWN IN PUBLIC HEALTH MEASURES


                                                          The fundamental maxim of public health must guide current disease
                                                          prevention programmes: the health of the individual is best ensured
                                                          by maintaining and improving the health of the entire community.
                                                          Satcher (1995)



                                                         Human frailty has been the cause of many outbreaks of infectious disease, but

                                                         the consequences can be particularly devastating when the failure has occurred

Cryptosporidium, a coccidian protozoan parasite,         within established public health protection measures. The 1976 USEPA Interim
was only identified as a human pathogen in 1976. It
                                                         Primary Drinking Water Regulations recognize this risk in their statement on
can cause diarrhoeal illness in the immunocompetent
but with dire consequences in immunocompromised          water sources:
individuals. The disease is endemic throughout
the world.The incidence of infection is also high,       Production of water that poses no threat to the consumer's health depends on
illustrated by the finding that in the USA 20%
                                                         continuous protection. Because of human frailties associated with protection, priority
of young adults have evidence of infection by
Cryptosporidium.This rate was over 90% amongst           should be given to selection of the purest source. Polluted sources should not be used
children under one year old in a Brazilian shanty
                                                         unless other sources are economically unavailable, and then only when personnel,
town (Kosek et al, 2001).
                                                         equipment and operating procedures can be depended on to purify and otherwise
                                                         continuously protect the drinking-water supply.

                                                         In May 2002 the water supply of Walkerton, Canada became contaminated

                                                         with a mixture of pathogens including E.coli O157:H7 and Campylobacter jejuni

                                                         when runoff in contact with livestock waste entered a well. As a result, over

                                                         2300 people became ill and seven people died from infection by these bacteria.

                                                         The inquiry into the incident was highly critical of many of the local agencies

                                                         involved in the supply of water and in the protection of public health, and

                           16
highlighted a breakdown of ordinary public health measures as one cause of                                 Water Quality:
                                                                                                           Guidelines,
the outbreak.
                                                                                                           Standards and Health.
                                                                                                            Assessment of risk and
The 1993 outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in Milwaukee, USA, involved up to
                                                                                                            risk management for
400,000 cases of serious illness and 100 deaths, principally among AIDS                                     water-related infectious
                                                                                                            disease.
patients. The cause of the outbreak appeared to be linked to two factors: the
                                                                                                            Edited by L.Fewtrell
location of the water intake to the treatment works and the experimental                                    and J.Bartram.
                                                                                       The quality of water is significant for health
coagulation system which turned out to be ineffective, resulting in the turbidity
                                                                                       worldwide. Accordingly, water quality standards and
limits for some of the filters being exceeded.                                         guidelines are developed to protect public health.
                                                                                       However, it has become clear that there is a need
The Milwaukee and Walkerton incidents have done much to redress the                    for a harmonised framework to inform guideline
                                                                                       development and revision to support better
perceived balance of risks and bring microbiological parameters back to the fore.
                                                                                       health protection.
At the time, some interpreted the accumulated experience in industrialized               This book contains a series of reviews which
                                                                                       address the principal issues of concern linking
countries as suggesting that waterborne infectious disease had been conquered
                                                                                       water and health to the establishment and
and the most significant risks to health were from chemical contaminants. With         implementation of effective affordable and efficient
                                                                                       guidelines and standards.
hindsight it is easy to see the mistake of directing attention towards the health

risk from chemicals at the expense of vigilance with regard to microbial hazards.
These two and other incidents have emphasized the fundamental importance of
the multiple barrier principle of water treatment and the need to implement a

systems approach to preventive risk management as advocated in the current

revision of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality and the

development of WSPs.




HUMAN MIGRATION


Borders are porous and microbes readily cross them.
Wilson (1995)



Cholera provides a good example of a water-related pathogen that is readily

transported over long distances by human migration. In 1849 John Snow wrote:

Epidemics of cholera follow major routes of commerce. The disease always appears
first at the seaports when extending into islands or continents. This observation
is pertinent even today. It has been suggested that V. cholerae may have been

re-introduced to South America in 1991, after a century of absence, from the

bilge and ballast water of cargo ships.

Human migrations take many forms and occur for many reasons: some

voluntary, some forced. In his account of the environmental history of the 20th

century, John McNeill argues that human migration has often mattered more

than population growth as a driver of environmental change. He also asserts that

the most important migrations, from an environmental perspective, have
occurred at the boundaries between natural environments: ...from humid to dry
lands repeatedly provoke desertification. Migrations from flatlands to sloping lands
often led to faster soil erosion. Migrations into forest zones brought deforestation
                                                                                                            17
                       Before the development of the sugar estates of           (McNeill, 2000). Likewise, the migration of people between natural boundaries
                       Wonji and Metahara in Ethiopia in the 1950s,
                                                                                has been responsible for the emergence of several infectious diseases. Most
                       schistosomiasis was confined to the provinces of
                       Harar,Tigray and the Lake Tana Basins.The irrigated      notable are diseases that have emerged as humans have encroached upon forest
                       sugar estate ecologies, which favour the
                                                                                regions, bringing people into closer contact with animal species carrying
                       propogation of aquatic snails, increased the
                       environmental receptivity to schistosomiasis             pathogens that can be transmitted across the species barrier.
                       transmission dramatically. It was the migration of
                       agricultural labourers southwards, however, which        Each year, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR)
                       triggered the introduction and spread of S. mansoni.
                                                                                publishes an estimate of the number of refugees. Between 1980 and 2001, the
                       Seasonal workers coming from the southern
                       districts of Wolayita, Hadya and Kenibata will have      number of refugees has risen by 42.8%, from 8.4 to 12 million (UNHCR, 2002),
                       picked the newly spread pathogens up at the sugar
                                                                                although it is down from a peak of 17.8 million in 1992. The scale of the
                       estate and distributed them further south, including
                       to the irrigation schemes of the Middle Awash            situation is confirmed in a recent report by the International Organization for
                       Valley. Increased circulation of humans during the
                                                                                Migration, which indicates that worldwide, one out of every 35 people is a
                       1984 – 85 droughts exacerbated the spread and
                       intensification of the disease (Meskal, 1987).           migrant (IOM, 2003).

                                                                                              Trend in the estimated number of refugees between 1980 and 2001
                                                                                              (UNHCR, 2002)

                                                                                                       20000

                                                                                                       18000

                                                                                                       16000
                                                                                 Numbers (thousands)




                                                                                                       14000

                                                                                                       12000

                                                                                                       10000

                                                                                                        8000

                                                                                                        6000
Photo: WHO/P.Virot




                                                                                                        4000
                                                                                                               1980
                                                                                                                      1981
                                                                                                                             1982
                                                                                                                                    1983
                                                                                                                                           1984
                                                                                                                                                  1985
                                                                                                                                                         1986
                                                                                                                                                                1987
                                                                                                                                                                       1988
                                                                                                                                                                              1989
                                                                                                                                                                                     1990
                                                                                                                                                                                            1991
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1992
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1993
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1994
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1995
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1996
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1997
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1998
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2001
                                                                                                                                                                                        Year


                     High-density peri-urban area
                                                                                The rate of urban growth and urbanization are important characteristics of

                                                                                human settlement in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. The rate of growth is

                                                                                increasing, with much of the growth occurring in developing or low- to middle-

                                                                                income countries. In the year 2000, 2.8 billion people lived in urban

                                                                                settlements, equivalent to 47% of the global population (UN-HABITAT, 2003a).

                                                                                By 2007 more people will live in urban areas than rural areas for the first time

                                                                                ever in human history (UN-HABITAT, 2003b).
                       In most developed countries Cyclospora cayetanensis
                       has been primarily associated with foodborne             Two processes drive the growth in population in urban areas: natural increase
                       disease outbreaks and most cases in Europe and
                                                                                due to high fertility rates, and rural urban migration (McMichael, 2000). Often,
                       Australia have been associated with international
                       travel in endemic areas. In December 2000 a              however, the burden of population growth is not evenly distributed across the
                       foodborne outbreak in southwest Germany was
                                                                                urban settlement, with the most rapid increases occurring in low-income areas.
                       reported. Investigation linked transmission to a salad
                       dish.The sources of the lettuce were traced to farms     In developing or low-income countries the peri-urban areas are often
                       in southern France and Italy. Although the oocysts
                                                                                characterized by high density, poor quality housing, a low level of health and
                       may have been transmitted to the lettuce via seasonal
                       workers from endemic countries, it is thought            social services, and limited access to basic services such as water and sanitation.
                       possible that contamination was also through local
                                                                                The social and often unsanitary environmental conditions that prevail in these
                       soil or water contact (Döller et al., 2002).
                                                                                areas are conducive to the emergence and rapid spread of infectious disease.


                                                    18
                                                                                                                                             Guidelines for Safe
                                                                                                                                             Recreational-water
                                                                                                                                             Environments
                                                                                                                                              Recreational use of water can
                                                                                                                                              have benefits to health and also
                                                                                                                                              adverse health effects if it is
                                                                                                                                              polluted or unsafe. Recreational-
                                                                                                                         water users may also be exposed to hazards such
                                                                                                                         as excess heat, cold and sunlight.
                                                                                                                           WHO produces international norms on
                                                                                                                         recreational-water use and health in the form of
                                                                                                                         Guidelines.The first edition of the WHO Guidelines
Photo: Surfers Against Sewage, UK




                                                                                                                         for Safe Recreational-water Environments is published
                                                                                                                         in two volumes: Volume 1: Coastal and
                                                                                                                         Freshwaters; and Volume 2: Swimming Pools, Spas
                                                                                                                         and Similar Recreational-water Environments.
                                                                                                                            Volume 1 of the Guidelines provides an
                                                                                                                         authoritative referenced review and assessment of
                                                                                                                         the health hazards associated with recreational waters.
                                    Water-based recreation is highly popular
                                                                                                                            Volume 2* provides Guidelines on the health
                                                                                                                         hazards associated with swimming pools, spas and
                                    Another significant form of human migration is tourism. In 2001, 690 million         similar recreational-water environments.

                                    international arrivals were recorded by the World Tourism Organization. This

                                    volume of human movement is unprecedented and, combined with the speed
                                                                                                                                             Serious illness in
                                    and accessibility of modern methods of transport, has increased the potential for                        Recreational-water
                                                                                                                                             Environments*
                                    diseases to be transmitted over great distances within a very short time. With the
                                                                                                                                               The vast majority of research to
                                    growth of tourism the popularity of recreational activities which involve contact                          date concerning recreational
                                                                                                                                               waters has focused on gastro-
                                    with water has grown; moreover, ease of travel has altered the public use of
                                                                                                                                               enteric outcomes arising from
                                    water for recreational purposes. Due to travel to warm climates, prolonged                                 contamination of water by
                                                                                                                         sewage and excreta and it has become apparent
                                    periods of immersion are now becoming normal and activity occurs throughout
                                                                                                                         that mild gastro-enteric symptoms are widespread
                                    the year, and not just during bathing seasons.                                       and common amongst recreational-water users.
                                                                                                                           As the use of water for recreational purposes
                                    Severe illness due to dermal contact with toxic cyanobacteria mats has been          becomes ever more popular and travel becomes
                                                                                                                         easier, users will be exposed to different types of
                                    reported from tropical marine bathing sites (Edwards, et al. 1992). Many
                                                                                                                         pathogens in the water, some of which may
                                    infections occur on a seasonal basis and therefore users will be exposed to          produce more severe potential health outcomes
                                                                                                                         resulting in symptoms which are not self limiting
                                    different and unfamiliar pathogens in the water in different locations. Many
                                                                                                                         and require medical attention.
                                    cases of schistosomiasis in Europe for example are imported where travellers to        This book systematically reviews the evidence
                                                                                                                         for, and credibility of transmission of a broad range
                                    tropical and sub-tropical areas have been infected by the parasite whilst
                                                                                                                         of pathogens encountered through recreational use
                                    undertaking water-related activities.                                                of water resources. It provides invaluable reading for
                                                                                                                         environmental health officers, medical practitioners,
                                                                                                                         water-quality scientists and environmental regulators.




                                                                                                                                               19      *   This publication is expected in 2004
REFERENCES


Battersby SA, Parsons R, Webster JP (2002). Urban rat infestations and the risk to public health. Journal of
Environmental Health Research, 1(2): 57–65.
Ceruti R, et al. (2001). Capillaria hepatica infection in wild brown rats (Rattus norvegicus) from the urban
area of Milan, Italy. Journal of Veterinary Medicine Series B; 48(3): 235–40.

Desselberger U (2000). Emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Journal of Infection, 40: 3–15.

Döller PC, et al. (2002). Cyclosporiasis outbreak in Germany associated with the consumption of salad.
Emerging Infectious Diseases, 8: 992–994.
Edwards C, et al. (1992). Identification of anatoxin-a benthic cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) and in
associated dog poisonings at Loch Insh, Scotland. Toxicon, 30(10): 1165–1175.

Franzen C, Müller A (1999). Cryptosporidia and microsporidia - waterborne diseases in the
immunocompromised host. Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease, 34: 245–262.

Gibson CJ III et al. (1998). Combined sewer overflows: a source of Cryptosporidium and Giardia? Water
Science and Technology, 38(12): 67–72.
IOM (2003). World Migration 2003: Managing Migration - Challenges and Responses for People on the Move.
International Organization for Migration.

Kindhauser, MK, ed. Global defence against the infectious disease threat. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2003.

Kosek M, et al. (2001). Cryptosporidiosis: an update. The Lancet Infectious Diseases, 1: 262–269.

McMichael AJ (2000). The urban environment and health in a world of increasing globalization: issues for
developing countries. Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 78: 1117–1126.

McNeill J (2000). Something new under the sun: An environmental history of the twentieth century. Penguin, 2000.

Meskal FH (1987). Vectorborne diseases related to labour movement and arrangements for their control, in:
Selected Working Papers for the 3rd to 6th PEEM meetings. Geneva, World Health Organization (document
VBC/87.3).

Miwa H, Sakaki N, Sugiyama T (2002). Incidence of recurrent peptic ulcers in patients with cured H. pylori
infection - a large-scale multicenter study from Japan. The American Journal of Gastroenterology, 97,
(9, Supplement 1): S42.

MMWR (1999). Outbreak of West Nile-Like Viral Encephalitis – New York, 1999. Morbidity and Mortality
Weekly Report, October 1, 1999, 48 (38): 845–849.
Satcher D (1995). Emerging infections: Getting ahead of the curve. Emerging Infectious Diseases, 1: 1–6.

Slifko TR, Smith HV, Rose JB (2000). Emerging parasite zoonoses associated with water and food.
International Journal for Parasitology, 30: 1379–1393.
Taylor LH, Latham SM, Woolhouse MEJ (2001). Risk factors for human disease emergence. Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society London – B, 356: 983–989.
UN-HABITAT (2003a). Cities in a globalizing world: global report on human settlements. Earthscan, London, 2001.

UN-HABITAT (2003b). Water and sanitation in the world's cities: Local action for global goals. Earthscan,
London, 2003.

UNHCR (2002). Refugees by numbers 2002. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. (Internet
communication of http://www.unhcr.ch/cgi-bin/texis/vtx/basics, accessed 3 July 2003).

Webster JP, MacDonald DW (1995). Parasites of wild brown rats (Rattus norvegicus) on UK Farms.
Parasitology, 111: 247–253.
WHO (1997). Division of emerging and communicable diseases surveillance and control annual report – 1996.
Geneva, World Health Organization, 1997.

Wilson ME (1995). Infectious diseases: an ecological perspective. British Medical Journal, 311: 1681–1684.

Woolhouse MEJ (2002). Population biology of emerging and re-emerging pathogens. Trends in Microbiology,
10, No. 10 (Suppl.): S3–S7.


20
AC K N OW L E D G E M E N T S


Special thanks to those listed below for their valuable input and contribution.

Technical advisors, writers and reviewers
Jamie Bartram           World Health Organization (WHO) Geneva, Switzerland
Stephen Battersby       Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK
Robert Bos              World Health Organization (WHO) Geneva, Switzerland
Joseph Cotruvo          J. Cotruvo Associates, Washington DC, USA
Aidan Cronin            Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK
Alfred Dufour           United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) Cincinnati, USA
Gregory Hartl           World Health Organization (WHO) Geneva, Switzerland
Guy Howard              Water, Engineering and Development Centre (WEDC) Loughborough, UK
Kali Johal              Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK
Nada Osseiran           World Health Organization (WHO) Geneva, Switzerland
Federico Properzi       World Health Organization (WHO) Geneva, Switzerland
Gareth Rees             Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK
Joerg Rueedi            Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK


Writers:                Steve Pedley, Kathy Pond
                        Robens Centre for Public and Environmental Health (RCPEH) Guildford, UK
Editor:                 Kathy Pond
Designers/Production: Cato Street, London, UK
Photographs:            WHO photolibrary, USEPA, Surfers Against Sewage UK, John Wharam and Daffyd S
                        R Baker, Kingston upon Hull City Council, Peter Furu Danish Bilharziasis Laboratory,
                        Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District.

Several of the monographs announced in this document are the result of a collaboration between the WHO and
the USEPA through Cooperative Agreement No. CR826570. The objective of this agreement is to rapidly
collate, critically appraise, synthesize and disseminate available information on selected issuses concerning
water-related exposure to emerging and re-emerging pathogens that are important to human health.

WATER, SANITATION AND HEALTH AT WHO
The Water Sanitation and Health (WSH) activities at WHO aim to reduce water-related disease and optimize
the health benefits of sustainable water and waste management. Our objectives are to support the health
sector in effectively addressing water and waste-related disease burden and engaging others in its reduction.
WSH also assists non-health sectors in understanding and acting on the health impacts of their actions.

Activities carried out include:

■   Articulating consistent ethical and evidence-based policy.

■   Providing technical and policy support for sustainable capacity building.

■   Setting, validating, monitoring and guiding the implementation of norms and standards.

■   Assessing status and trends.

■   Developing tools and guidelines for disease control and risk reduction.

■   Stimulating research and development, testing new technologies and comparing performance.

Water, Sanitation and Health
World Health Organization
20, Avenue Appia, CH-1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland
Http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health


                                                                                                           21
WHO OFFICES
HEADQUARTERS
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
World Health Organization
Avenue Appia 20,
1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland
Tel. +41 22 791 21 11                                                                World Health Organization
Fax +41 22 791 31 11
Website: www.who.int



REGIONAL OFFICES
Africa                                                           Europe
World Health Organization Regional Office                        World Health Organization Regional Office for
for Africa (AFRO)                                                Europe (EURO)
P.O. Box 6                                                       8, Scherfigsvej
Cite du Djoue                                                    DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Danemark
Brazzaville, Congo                                               Tel. +45 39 17 17 17
Tel. +242 839 100/+47 241 39100                                  Fax +45 39 17 18 18
Fax +242 839 501/+47 241 39501                                   Email: postmaster@euro.who.int
Email: regafro@afro.who.int                                      Website: www.euro.who.int
Website: www.whoafr.org

Americas                                                         South-East Asia
World Health Organization                                        World Health Organization Regional Office for
Regional Office for the Americas/Pan American                    South-East Asia (SEARO)
Health Organization (AMRO/PAHO)                                  World Health House, Indraprastha Estate
525, 23rd Street, N.W.                                           Mahatma Gandhi Road
Washington, DC 20037, USA                                        New Delhi 110002, India
Tel. +1 202 974 3000                                             Tel. +91 112 337 0804
Fax +1 202 974 3663                                              Fax +91 112 337 0197
Email: postmaster@paho.org                                       Email: PANDEYH@whosea.org
Website: www.paho.org                                            Website: www.whosea.org



Eastern Mediterranean                                            Western Pacific
World Health Organization Regional Office for                    World Health Organization Regional Office for the
the Eastern Mediterranean (EMRO)                                 Western Pacific (WPRO)
WHO Post Office                                                  P.O. Box 2932
Abdul Razzak Al Sanhouri Street (opposite                        1000 Manila, Philippines
Children's Library)                                              Tel. +63 2 528 80 01
Nasr City                                                        Fax +63 2 521 1036
Cairo 11371, Egypt                                               Email: postmaster@who.org.ph
Tel. +20 2 670 2535                                              Website: www.wpro.who.int
Fax +20 2 670 2492
Email: PIO@emro.who.int
Website: www.emro.who.int




     To order any of the publications referred to in this brochure please contact:
     WHO Marketing and Dissemination
     World Health Organization
     20 Avenue Appia
     1211 Geneva 27
     Switzerland
     Tel. +41 22 791 2476
     Fax +41 22 791 4857
     Email: bookorders@who.int and order online: http://bookorders.who.int

22
23
‘Of all our natural resources, water has become the
 most precious...In an age where man has forgotten his
 origins and is blind even to his most essential needs for
 survival, water along with other resources has become
 the victim of his indifference’. Rachel Carson, Silent Spring.
