Guidelines for
drinking-\Vater
  · quality
      SECOND EDITION

           Volume 3
  Surveillance and control of
     community supplies




              ($}
              \UWi
               ~"?~
       World Health Organization
               Geneva
The World Health Orgamzatwn was established m 1948 as a specialized agency of the Umted
Natwns servmg as the dlfectmg and coordmatmg authonty for mternatwnal health matters and
public health. One ofWHO's constitutiOnal functwns 1s to provide objeCtiVe and reliable mformatwn
and advice m the f1eld of human health, a respons1b1hty that It fulfils m part through Its extensive
programme of publicatiOns.
The Orgamzatwn seeks through Its pubhcatwns to support natiOnal health strategies and address
the most pressmg pubhc health concerns of populatwns around the world To respond to the needs
of Member States at all levels of development, WHO publishes practical manuals, handbooks and
trammg matenal for specific categones of health workers; mternatwnally applicable gU!delmes and
standards, reviews and analyses of health pohc1es, programmes and research, and state-of-the-art
consensus reports that offer techmcal advice and recommendatwns for deCisiOn-makers. These
books are closely tied to the Orgamzatwn's pnonty actiVIties, encompassmg drsease preventiOn
and control, the development of equrtable health systems based on pnmary health care, and health
promotwn for md!v!duals and commumt1es Progress towards better health for all also demands the
global d1ssemmatwn and exchange of mformatwn that draws on the knowledge and expenence of
all WHO's Member countnes and the collaboratiOn of world leaders m pubhc health and bwmed1cal
scrences

To ensure the Widest possible avadab1hty of authontat1ve mformatwn and guidance on health
matters, WHO secures the broad mternatwnal d1stnbut10n of Its publicatwns and encourages their
translatwn and adaptatwn. By helpmg to promote and protect health and prevent and control
disease throughout the world, WHO's books contnbute to achrevmg the Orgamzatwn's pnnCipal
objeCtive-the attamment by all people of the highest possible level of health
    Guidelines for
drinking-water quality
         SECOND EDITION




           Volume 3
   Surveillance and control
    of community supplies




       World Health Organization
               Geneva
                 1997
WHO L1brary Cataloguing 1n Publ1cat1on Data

Gu1del1nes for dnnk1ng-water qual1ty -2nd ed

    Contents v 3 Surveillance and control of commun1ty supplies
    1 Dnnk1ng water- standards 2 Data collection - methods 3 Gu1del1nes                 4 Developing
    countnes I Title Surveillance and control of community suppl1es
    ISBN 92 4 154503 8 (v 3) (NLM Class1f1cat10n WA 657)




The World Health Organ1zat1on welcomes requests for perm1ss1on to reproduce or translate 1ts publica-
tions, 1n part or 1n full Applications and enqu1nes should be addressed to the Off1ce of Publ1cat1ons, World
Health Organ1zat1on, Geneva, Switzerland, wh1ch w1ll be glad to prov1de the latest 1nformat1on on any
changes made to the text, plans for new ed1t1ons. and repnnts and translations already available

                                   ©World Health Organization 1997

Publ1cat1ons of the World Health Organ1zat1on enJOY copynght protection 1n accordance w1th the provi-
Sions of Protocol 2 of the Universal Copynght Convent1on All nghts reserved

The des1gnat1ons employed and the presentation of the mater1al 1n th1s publ1cat1on do not 1mply the
expression of any op1n1on whatsoever on the part of the Secretanat of the World Health Organization
concerning the legal status of any country, terntory, c1ty or area or of 1ts author1t1es, or concerning the
del1m1tat1on of 1ts front1ers or boundanes

The ment1on of spec1f1c compan1es or of certain manufacturers' products does not 1mply that they are
endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organ1zat1on 1n preference to others of a s1m1lar nature
that are not ment1oned Errors and omiSSions excepted, the names of propnetary products are distin-
guished by 1n1t1al cap1tal letters

                                       TYPESET IN HONG KONG
                                          PRINTED IN MALTA
                                   96/11027-Best-set/lnterpnnt-8000
Contents




Preface                                                          IX

Acknowledgements                                                 XI

Acronyms and abbreviations used in the text                      xii

1.   Introduction
     1 1 Scope and purpose                                        1
     1 2 Community water supplies                                 1
     1.3 Health Implications                                      3
         1.3.1 Water quality                                      4
         1.3.2 Water-washed diseases                             11
     1.4 Objectives of surveillance and quality control          11
     1.5 Organizational structure                                12
         1.5.1 The surveillance agency                           13
         1.5.2 Quality control and the role of the water
                supplier                                         13
     1.6 Community participation                                 14
     1.7 Role of surveillance 1n improvement of water supplies   15

2.   Planning and implementation of surveillance                 17
     2.1   Legal and Institutional basis                         17
           2.1.1 Laws, regulations, and standards                17
           2.1.2 Institutional framework for water-quality
                 surveillance                                    18
     2.2 Plann1ng                                                20
         2.2.1 General considerations                            20
         2.2.2 Strategies                                        22
     2.3 Implementation                                          23
         2.3 1 Inventories                                       23
         2.3 2 Designing forms                                   26
         2.3.3 Tra1n1ng                                          28

                                    iii
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




         23.4    Preliminary surveys                           30
         2.3.5   Undertaking fieldwork                         31
         2.3.6   Establishing routine surveillance             31
         2.3.7   Evaluation                                    31
     2.4 Information management                                31
         2.4 1 Flow and use of information                     31
         2.4.2 Information exchange with suppliers             32
         2.4.3 Information exchange within the surveillance
                 agency                                        34
         2.4.4 Information exchange with consumers             35
         2.4.5 Communication with local and national
                 government                                    36
         2 4.6 Communication linkage between surveillance
                 and remedial action                           36
         2.4.7 Use of computers                                37
     2.5 Support structure                                     38
         2.5.1 Laboratory network                              38
         2.5.2 Transport                                       39
         2.5.3 Financial support                               39
         2.5.4 Staffing                                        41

3.   Surveys                                                   42
     3.1 Nature and scope of community surveys                 42
     3.2 Sanitary inspections                                  44
     3.3 Sanitary inspection reports                           44
         3.3.1 Functions of sanitary inspection report forms   45
         3.3 2 Design of sanitary inspection report forms      46
     3.4 Carry1ng out sanitary inspections                     47
     3.5 Timing and frequency of sanitary inspections          48
         3.5.1 New sources                                     48
         3.5.2 Routine surveys of existing supplies            48

4.   Water sampling and analysis                               51
     4.1 Sampling                                              52
         4.1.1 Location of sampling points                     52
         4.1.2 Sampling frequency                              53
         4.1.3 Sampling methods for microbiological
                 analysis                                      53
         4.1 4 Storage of samples for microb1olog1cal
                 analysis                                      53


                                   IV
                                                            CONTENTS




           4.1.5 Sampling methods for physicochemical
                 analysis                                        56
     4.2 Bacteriological analysis                                56
         4.2.1 Indicator organisms                               58
         4.2.2 Principal analytical techniques                   60
         4.2.3 Choice of methods                                 63
         4.2.4 Minimizing the cost of analysis                   63
         4.2.5 Laboratory-based versus on-site test1ng           65
         4.2.6 Single-application (disposable) test k1ts         66
     4.3 Physicochemical analysis                                 67
         4.3.1 Chlorine residual                                  67
         4.3.2 pH                                                 67
         4 3.3 Turbidity                                          68
     4.4 Aesthetic parameters                                     68
         4.4.1 Colour                                             68
         4.4.2 Taste and odour                                    69
     4.5 Other analyses of relevance to health                    69
     4.6 Analytical quality assurance and quality control         70
     4.7 Safety                                                   72

5.   Data analysis and interpretation                             73
     5.1 Introduction                                             73
     5.2 Results of community surveys                             73
         5.2.1 Evaluation of water-supply systems                 73
         5.2.2 Hygiene practices                                  76
     5.3   Assessment of the sanitary situation                   76
     5.4   Microbiological water quality                          77
     5.5   Risk assessment                                        78
     5.6   Presentation of information                            80
           5.6.1 Target audiences                                 80
           5.6.2 Simple data presentation                         81
     5.7 Use of surveillance findings                             82
         5.7.1 Use of data at local level                         82
         5.7.2 Regional use of data                               82
         5.7.3 Use of data for national planning                  83

6. Technical interventions                                        84
   6 1 Prevention and remedial measures                           84
   6.2 Protecting water sources                                   85


                                    V
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




           6.2.1 Catchment protection                             85
           6.2.2 Groundwater protection                           89
     6.3 Wells                                                    92
         6 3.1 Dug wells                                          92
         6 3.2 Hand-pumped and mechanically pumped
                 wells                                            94
     6.4 Springs                                                   96
     6.5 Rainwater catchment                                       99
     6.6 Water treatment                                          100
         6.6.1 Abstraction                                        100
         6.6.2 Preliminary treatment by storage                   102
         6.6.3 Plain sedimentation                                102
         6.6.4 Prefiltration                                      104
         6.6.5 Slow sand filtration                               105
         6.6.6 Coagulation, flocculation, and sedimentation       107
         6.6.7 Rapid sand filtration                              110
         6.6.8 Aeration                                           111
         6.6.9 Fluoride removal                                   113
         6.6.1 0 Control of nitrites and nitrates                 113
         6.6.11 Disinfection                                      114
         6.6.12 Water-treatment plants                            115
     6.7 Household water treatment and storage                    116
         6.7.1 Household water treatment                          119
         6.7.2 Household water storage                            125
         6.7.3 Storage tanks                                      127

7.   Hygiene education                                            129
     7.1 Scope of hygiene education                               129
         7.1.1 Community-based surveillance                       129
         7.1.2 Hygiene behaviours                                 129
     7.2 Planning hyg1ene education                               131
         7.2.1 Community participation and empowerment            131
         7.2.2 Selection of behaviours to be changed              132
         7.2.3 Factors Influencing hygiene behaviour and
                 selection of content of education                133
           7.2.4 Selection of target groups                       133
           7.2.5 Information needs for hygiene education          134
     7.3   Educational methods                                    134
     7.4   Human resources for hygiene education                  136
     7.5   Role of the surveillance agency in hygiene education   138
     7.6   Funding hygiene education activities                   139

                                   VI
                                                               CONTENTS




8.   Legislative, regulatory, policy, and basic
     management aspects                                            141
     8.1   Application of water-supply legislation                 141
           8.1.1 Short- and med1um-term targets                    141
           8.1.2 Compliance: the role of the water-supply
                  agency and the surveillance agency               142
           8.1 3 Surveillance requirements                         143
           8.1.4 Sampling frequencies and parameters               144
           8.1.5 Prescribed analytical methods                     144
     8.2 Technical regulations: construction, operation, and
         plumbing codes of practice                                144

Selected further reading                                           145

Annex 1.  List of contributors and reviewers                       147
Annex 2.  Examples of sanitary inspection forms                    150
Annex 3.  Examples of possible responsibilities of
          surveillance staff                                       178
Annex 4. Sampling methods for bacteriological testmg               182
Annex 5. Multiple-tube method for thermotolerant (faecal)
          coliforms                                                189
Annex 6. Membrane filtration method for thermotolerant
          (faecal) coliforms                                       212
Annex 7. Field test method for thermotolerant (faecal)
          coliforms                                                219
Annex 8. Presence-absence test for total coliform bacteria         224
Annex 9. Residual free chlorine test                               226
Annex 10. Turbidity and pH                                         231
Annex 11. Examples of regional and national monitoring
          report forms for water supplies and for coverage
          with bas1c sanitary facilities                           234




                                  vii
Preface




The first edition of GuideLines for drinking-water quaLity was published by WHO
in 1984-1985 and was intended to supersede earlier European and international
standards. Volume 1 contained guideline values for various constituents of drink-
ing-water and Volume 2 the criteria monographs prepared for each substance or
contaminant on which the guideline values were based; Volume 3 was concerned
with the monitoring of drinking-water quality in small communities, particularly
those in rural areas.
     During the International Drinking-Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
(1981-1990) considerable experience was gained in the surveillance and im-
provement of small-community supplies, notably through a series of demonstra-
tion projects supported by WHO. This new edition ofVolume 3 of GuideLines for
drinking-water quaLity reflects the experience of these and many other projects
concerned with improving the quality of water services undertaken during the
Decade.
     A number of important principles were established in the first edition of
Volume 3 of the GuideLines and these continue to form an important part of the
second edition. They include the distinct and complementary roles of the water
supplier and the surveillance agency; the unique nature of the problems associated
with monitoring small-community supplies (especially in developing countries);
the central role of the microbiological monitoring of supplies of this type; and the
importance of ensuring that surveillance leads to engineering improvements and
other remedial measures. Experience gained during the Decade has highlighted
the importance of other fundamental concepts which have been incorporated
into this new edition, including the need to consider not only drinking-water
quality, but also all aspects of water-supply services that influence health, and to
address the problems of small periurban areas not covered by such services.
     While conditions vary from country to country as a result of differences in
economic, geographical, cultural and social conditions, the strategies and proce-
dures described here should nevertheless be widely applicable. Thus it is hoped
that this Volume, like the first edition, will prove useful to all those concerned
with drinking-water supply to small communities: environmental health inspec-
tors, sanitary technicians, laboratory personnel, water engineers, planners and all
those in the health and water-supply sector with managerial responsibility for

                                         IX
PREFACE




improving water-supply services to communities. For the purposes of this publi-
cation, the term "communities" applies not only to villages and small private
water supplies in rural areas but also to other centres of population within, or in
close proximity to, urban centres.




                                         X
Acknowledgements




The preparation of this volume was begun at a Review Meeting on Surveillance
of Community Supplies, held in Harare, Zimbabwe, on 24-28 June 1991, when
a detailed outline was agreed. The first draft of Volume 3 was reviewed at the
Final Task Group Meeting on the Revision of the WHO guidelines for drinking-
water quality, held in Geneva on 21-25 September 1992, and a revised draft was
subsequently finalized at a Meeting on Technical Revision of Volume 3, held in
Tirana, Albania, on 15-20 June 1993. The final version is the outcome of the
work of a number of contributors and reviewers whose names are given in Annex
1; their assistance is greatly appreciated. The coordinator for Volume 3 of the
Guidelines was]. Bartram, Manager, Water and Wastes, WHO European Centre
for Environment and Health, Rome, Italy, formerly of the Robens Institute of
Health and Safety, University of Surrey, Guildford, England.
    The first edition of Volume 3 of the Guidelines provided the basis for a
number of pilot projects and country programmes in Central and South America,
Africa, various parts of Asia and in the Pacific region, funded jointly by the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Kingdom
Overseas Development Administration (ODA). Regional and national training
courses were conducted, which were also supported by the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) and which allowed for the review and evalua-
tion of the approaches proposed in the Guidelines. The experience gained in the
projects in Indonesia, Peru, and Zambia was evaluated and published (Lloyd B,
Helmer R. Surveillance ofdrinking water quality in rural areas. Harlow, Longman
Scientific and Technical, 1991), and provided the basis for much of the revised
methodology in the second edition, including an intensified sanitary-inspection
process and a new hazard-analysis scheme.
    The revision of Volume 3 of the Guidelines was made possible through a
grant provided by ODA to the Robens Institute of Health and Safety, University
of Surrey, Guildford, England. Financial support for the review meetings was
provided by DANIDA.




                                      XI
Acronyms and abbreviations used
in the text




CFU     colony-forming units
DPD     diethyl-p-phenylenediamine
ESA     external support agencies
HTH     high-test hypochlorite
ISO     International Organization for Standardization
]TU     Jackson turbidity unit
MF      membrane filtration
MPN     most probable number
MSD     minimum safe distance
MT      multiple tube
NA      not applicable
NGO     nongovernmental organization
NTU     nephelometric turbidity unit
PA      presence-absence test
TCU     true colour unit
UNCED   United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
WHO     World Health Organization




                               XII
1.
Introduction



1.1 Scope and purpose
This volume of GuideLines for drinking-water quality describes the methods em-
ployed in the surveillance of drinking-water quality in the light of the special
problems of small-community supplies, particularly those of developing coun-
tries, and outlines the strategies necessary to ensure that surveillance is effective.
It is also concerned with the linkage between surveillance and remedial action and
with the form that remedial action should take.
      The structure of this volume reflects the key stages in the development of
surveillance, as summarized in Fig. 1.1. Thus Chapter 2 covers planning, and
subsequent chapters deal with the procedures used in the collection of informa-
tion-sanitary inspection and community surveys (Chapter 3), and the analysis
of water quality (Chapter 4). Chapter 5 considers the analysis and interpretation
of the information gathered and its use in improving water-supply services. The
final three chapters cover strategies for improvement-technical interventions
(Chapter 6), hygiene education (Chapter 7) and legislation and regulation (Chap-
ter 8).


1.2 Community water supplies
The precise definition of a "community water supply" will vary. While a defini-
tion based on population size or the type of supply may be appropriate under
many conditions, it is often administration and management that set community
supplies apart, and this is especially true in developing countries. The increased
involvement of ordinary, often untrained and sometimes unpaid, community
members in the administration and operation of water-supply systems is charac-
teristic of small communities; this provides a ready distinction between commu-
nity water supplies and the supply systems of major towns and cities. However,
water supplies in periurban areas-the communities surrounding major towns
and cities-are often organizationally similar to those of rural communities; these
may also be classified as "community water supplies" and are therefore included
in this volume.
     While the safe quality of water supplied to communities is an important
consideration in the protection of human health and well-being, it is not the only
factor that affects consumers. Access to water is of paramount concern and other
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 1. 1 Key stages in the development of water-supply
          surveillance and strategies for improvement



                                    Planning
                                    Chapter 2




   Analysis of                       Sanitary                       Community
  water quality                     inspection                        survey
   Chapter 4                         Chapter 3                      Chapter 3




                                  Analysis and
                                  Interpretation
                                     of data
                                    Chapter 5




    Technical                        Hygiene                      Legislative and
  interventions                     education                       regulatory
    Chapter 6                       Chapter 7                        aspects
                                                                    Chapter 8

                                                                             WH096536



factors, such as the population served, the reliability of the supply and the cost to
the consumer, must therefore be taken into account. At the United Nations
conference at Mar del Plata in 1977, which launched the International Drinking-
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, this philosophy was adopted unambigu-
ously: "all peoples, whatever their stage of development and social and economic
condition, have the right to have access to drinking-water in quantities and of a
quality equal to their basic needs."
    Access to water may be restricted in several ways, e.g. by prohibitive charges,
daily or seasonal fluctuations in availability or lack of supplies to remote areas,
and many countries face problems of this sort. In some parts of the world where
water is scarce and has to be transported over long distances by road or on foot,
the cost of drinking-water may absorb a significant proportion of the average
daily income. Elsewhere, seasonal, geographical and hydrological factors may

                                         2
                                                                         1 INTRODUCTION




conspire to deny individual households or entire communmes a continuous,
reliable supply of drinking-water. During dq seasons, spring sources may
dwindle, reservoirs may become exhausted and excessive demands by one group
of people may limit supplies to their neighbours. Such problems are not confined
to poorer countries; they are also experienced with increasing frequency in
industrialized countries where management of demand has failed or population
growth has outpaced the development of water resources.
     If the performance of a community water-supply system is to be properly
evaluated, a number of factors must be considered. Some countries that have
developed national strategies for the surveillance and quality control of water-
supply systems have adopted quantitative service indicators for application at
community, regional and national levels. These usually include:
     quality:     the proportion of samples or supplies that comply with guide-
                  line values for drinking-water quality and minimum criteria for
                  treatment and source protection
     coverage:    the percentage of the population that has a recognizable (usu-
                  ally public) water-supply system
     quantity:    the average volume of water used by consumers for domestic
                  purposes (expressed as litres per capita per day)
     continuity: the percentage of the time during which water IS available
                   (daily, weekly or seasonally)
     cost:        the tariff paid by domestic consumers
     Together, these five service indicators provide the basis for setting targets for
community water supplies. They serve as a quantitative guide to the comparative
efficiency of water-supply agencies and provide consumers with an objective
measure of the quality of the overall service and thus the degree of public health
protection afforded.


1.3 Health implications
The provision of an adequate supply of safe water was one of the eight compo-
nents of primary health care identified by the International Conference on
Primary Health Care in Alma-Ata in 1978. The guidelines presented here are in
full accord with the spirit of the Alma-Ata declaration on primary health care,
which expanded the concept of health care to include broader notions of
affordability, accessibility, self-reliance, intersectoral collaboration, community
participation, sustainability and social justice. 1
     In most countries the principal risks to human health associated with the
consumption of polluted water are microbiological in nature (although the
importance of chemical contamination should not be underestimated). As indi-
cated in Chapter 18 of "Agenda 21" of UNCED, "An estimated 80% of all
diseases and over one-third of deaths in developing countries are caused by the

1
    Alma-Ata 1978· pnmary health care. Geneva, World Health Organization, 1978.


                                               3
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




consumption of contaminated water and on average as much as one-tenth of each
person's productive time is sacrificed to water-related diseases."
    The risk of acquiring a waterborne infection increases with the level of
contamination by pathogenic microorganisms. However, the relationship is not
necessarily a simple one and depends very much on factors such as infectious dose
and host susceptibility. Drinking-water is only one vehicle for disease transmis-
sion. Some agents may be transmitted primarily from person to person and, for
bacteria capable of multiplication in food, foodborne transmission may be more
important than transmission by drinking-water. Other agents, however, such as
Salmonella typhi, Vibrio cho!erae, Giardia Iamblia and hepatitis A virus, are
frequently transmitted via contaminated drinking-water and, where this is the
case, improvements in drinking-water quality may result in substantial reductions
in disease prevalence.
     Because of this multiplicity of transmission routes, improvements in the
quality and availability of water, excreta disposal, and hygiene in general are all
important factors in reducing diarrhoea! morbidity and mortality.
     Epidemiological investigations indicate that all aspects of the quality of
water supply services influence health, as do hygiene behaviours and sanitation.
Experience has shown that analysis of disease incidence (epidemiological surveil-
lance) is not a useful tool for guiding even large-scale remedial programmes for
community water supplies. It is expensive and yields data that are difficult to
interpret.
     In the same way that indicators of the quality of water-supply services have
been found useful in guiding remedial action, indicators of hygiene practices
should also be used. Such indicators should be based on simple, standardized
observations, and used to guide hygiene education programmes and the selection
of key messages regarding hygiene behaviours.


1.3.1 Water quality
Guideline values for drinking-water quality are given in Volume 1 of the Guide-
lines for drinking-water quality, which also explains how the values should be
interpreted. The health criteria used in establishing these values are summarized
in Volume 2. A drinking-water quality guideline value' represents the concentra-
tion of a constituent that does not result in any significant health risk to the
consumer over a lifetime of consumption. Drinking-water should be suitable for
human consumption and for all usual domestic purposes. When a guideline value
is exceeded, the cause should be investigated and corrective action taken. The
amount by which, and for how long, any guideline value can be exceeded without
endangering human health depends on the specific substance involved.
     In drawing up national standards for drinking-water quality, it will be
necessary to take into account various local, geographical, socioeconomic and
cultural factors. As a result, national standards may differ appreciably from the
guideline values.

                                        4
                                                                  1 INTRODUCTION




     There may be a need for interim standards to provide a medium-term goal as
a step towards the achievement of guideline values in the longer term. There is no
objection to such a stepwise approach provided that the relevant authorities in
each country, especially the ministry of health or its equivalent, are consulted and
approve it. There are dangers in leaving such matters entirely to the agencies
responsible for water supply because of the conflict of interests that may arise.
     While supplies that fail to meet ideal criteria should be neither condoned nor
ignored, interim standards permit resources to be directed first towards those
communities with the greatest problems. They provide incentives to upgrade
rather than blame for failure; this is particularly important in countries subject to
severe economic constraints. The use of categories of bacteriological contamina-
tion of small-community supplies is useful in this context and is discussed in
greater detail in Chapter 5.
     In some countries, health authorities have adopted interim standards for
intractable natural contaminants such as fluoride, pending the development of
appropriate treatments for their removal from community supplies.
     No attempt is made here to establish guideline values for service indicators
other than drinking-water quality, such as those for the coverage, continuity, and
cost of community water supplies. It is for national authorities to establish
medium- and long-term targets for such factors. This should be done on a
multisectoral basis, since the setting of these targets will have a number of social
and economic implications. Nevertheless, because of the importance to public
health of adequate access to safe water, the adoption of standards in this area is
strongly recommended.


Microbiological aspects
Ideally, drinking-water should not contain any microorganisms known to be
pathogenic-capable of causing disease-or any bacteria indicative of faecal
pollution. To ensure that a drinking-water supply satisfies these guidelines,
samples should be examined regularly. The detection of Escherichia cob provides
definite evidence of faecal pollution; in practice, the detection of thermotolerant
(faecal) coliform bacteria is an acceptable alternative.
     Guideline values for bacteriologically safe supplies of drinking-water are
provided in Volume 1 of the Guidelines. Although developed for large water-
supply systems, the values for treated and untreated water supplies are also
applicable to community supplies and are therefore reproduced in Table 1.1.
Background information on the significance and choice of indicator organisms, as
well as the selection of analytical methods, is given in Chapter 4.
    A complementary strategy for securing the microbiological safety of drink-
ing-water supplies has also been advocated by WHO and a number of other
agencies, based on the minimum treatment for certain types of water. This helps
to ensure the elimination of faecal pathogens by specifYing the conditions to be
observed and treatments to be applied at the water-treatment plant. For example,

                                         5
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 1. 1 Guideline values tor bacteriological quafitya
Organisms                                                  Guideline value

All water intended for drinking
E coli or thermotolerant col1form bactenabc                Must not be detectable 1n any 100-ml
                                                           sample
Treated water entering the distribution system
E coil or thermotolerant col1form bactenab     Must not be detectable 1n any 100-ml
                                               sample
Total col1form bactena                         Must not be detectable 1n any 100-ml
                                               sample
Treated water in the distribution system
E colt or thermotolerant col1form bacter1ab                Must not be detectable 1n any 100-ml
                                                           sample
Total coliform bactena                                     Must not be detectable 1n any 100-ml
                                                           sample In the case of large supplies,
                                                           where suff1c1ent samples are exam1ned,
                                                           must not be present 1n 95% of samples
                                                           taken throughout any 12-month penod

" Immediate 1nvest1gat1ve act1on must be taken 1f e1ther E colt or total col1form bactena are detected
  The mm1mum act1on 1n the case of total col1form bacter1a IS repeat samplmg, 1f these bactena are
  detected 1n the repeat sample, the cause must be determ1ned by 1mmed1ate further 1nvest1gat1on
b Although E colt IS the more prec1se 1nd1cator of faecal pollution, the count of thermotolerant col1form
  bactena 1s an acceptable alternative If necessary, proper conf1rmatory tests must be earned out
  Total col1form bactena are not acceptable 1nd1cators of the san1tary qual1ty of rural water supplies,
  particularly 1n trop1cal areas where many bactena of no san1tary s1gn1f1cance occur m almost all
  untreated supplies
  lt IS recognized that, 1n the great maJonty of rural water supplies 1n developing countnes, faecal
  contam1nat1on IS Widespread Under these cond1t1ons, the nat1onal surveillance agency should set
  med1um-term targets for the progress1ve Improvement of water supplies




cysts of protozoa such as Giardia and Cryptosporidium are efficiently removed by
means of slow sand filters. Similarly, enteric viruses are inactivated by the main-
tenance of a disinfectant residual of at least 0.5 mg!litre free chlorine for a
minimum of 30 minutes in waters with a turbidity of less than 1 NTU and a pH
of less than 8.0. Another aspect of the minimum treatment approach is the
protection of sources and catchments in order to minimize both contamination
and the sophistication of the treatment processes needed to ensure potability.
     It is not easy to provide generally applicable guidelines for other biological
hazards, particularly parasitic protozoa and helminths. The application of any
proposed guidelines and procedures must be governed by epidemiological consid-
erations in at least two respects:

•    Many parasites have a complex geographical distribution and it may be
     unnecessary to take precautions against those that do not occur locally.



                                                    6
                                                                   1 INTRODUCTION




•   The majority of waterborne parasites are also transmissible by other routes,
    such as food and direct faecal-oral spread, and these routes should also be
    considered in the formulation of strategies for control.
     Species of protozoa known to have been transmitted by the ingestion of
contaminated drinking-water include Entamoeba histolytica (which causes
amoebiasis), Giardia spp., and Cryptosporidium. These organisms can be intro-
duced into a water supply through human or, in some instances, animal faecal
contamination. Coliform organisms do not appear to be a good indicator of
Giardia or E. histolytica in drinking-water: enteroviruses and protozoa are more
resistant to disinfection than E. coLi, so that absence of E. coli will not necessarily
indicate freedom from these organisms.
     The infective stages of many helminths such as parasitic roundworms and
flatworms can be transmitted to humans through drinking-water. A single mature
larva or fertilized egg can cause infection, and such infective stages should be
absent from drinking-water. However, the water route is relatively unimportant
except in the case of DracuncuLus medinensis (the guinea worm), which is encoun-
tered mainly in unpiped water supplies. While there are methods for detecting
this parasite, they are unsuitable for routine monitoring.


Disinfection
Terminal disinfection is essential for surface waters after treatment and for
protected groundwater sources when E. coLi or thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms
are detected. Chlorine in one form or another is the most commonly used
disinfectant worldwide.
     For terminal chlorination, there should be a free chlorine residual of at least
0.5 mg/litre after a minimum contact time of 30 minutes at a pH ofless than 8.0,
as for inactivation of enteric viruses. When chlorine is used as a disinfectant in a
piped distribution system, it is desirable to maintain a free chlorine residual of
0.2-0.5 mg/litre throughout, to reduce the risk of microbial regrowth and the
health risk of recontamination. In emergencies, e.g. in refugee camps, during
outbreaks of potentially waterborne disease, or when faecal contamination of a
water supply is detected, the concentration of free chlorine should be increased to
greater than 0.5 mg!litre throughout the system.
     High levels of turbidity can protect microorganisms from the effects of dis-
infection, stimulate the growth of bacteria, and give rise to a significant chlorine
demand. Effective disinfection requires that turbidity is less than 5 NTU; ideally,
median turbidity should be below 1 NTU.
     Chlorine can be easily monitored and controlled as a drinking-water
disinfectant, and regular, frequent monitoring is recommended wherever chlori-
nation is practised. Chlorine determination is described in section 6.6.11. The
health-based guideline value for free chlorine in water supplied to the public is



                                          7
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




5 mg/litre. However, concentrations that are detectable by consumers and may
provoke rejection may be much lower than this (typically 0.6-1 mg/litre); an
upper limit should therefore be established based on local experience.
    Disinfection is of unquestionable importance in the supply of safe water for
drinking purposes. The destruction of microbial pathogens is essential and very
commonly involves the use of reactive chemical agents such as chlorine. The use
of chemical disinfectants usually results in the formation of chemical by-
products, some of which are potentially hazardous, but the risks to health posed
by these by-products are extremely small in comparison with those associated
with inadequate disinfection. It is important that disinfection should not be
compromised by attempts to control such by-products.


Chemical aspects
In rural areas of developing countries, the great majority of health-related water-
quality problems are the result of bacteriological or other biological contamina-
tion. Nevertheless, a significant number of very serious problems may occur as a
result of the chemical contamination of water resources.
     Some potentially chronic effects may occur in rural areas where overuse of
agrochemicals leads to significant levels of pesticides in water sources. The pres-
ence of nitrate and nitrite in water may result from the excessive application of
fertilizers or from leaching of wastewater or other organic wastes into surface
water and groundwater. Although effects may be difficult to detect in human
populations, such contaminants may pose a risk to health.
      In areas with aggressive or acidic waters, the use of lead pipes and fittings or
solder can result in elevated lead levels in drinking-water, which may, after long-
term exposure, affect the mental development of children. Exposure to high levels
of naturally occurring fluoride can lead to mortling of teeth and (in severe cases)
skeletal fluorosis and crippling. Similarly, arsenic may occur naturally, and long-
term exposure via drinking-water may result in a risk to health.
     More acute health effects of chemical contamination of small-community
supplies include methaemoglobinaemia in infants due to high levels of nitrate,
and toxicosis due to accidental and other discharges of solvents and heavy metals
from mining activities.
     In order to establish whether or not this type of problem exists, a selected
number of physicochemical parameters may have to be measured. However,
it may be both very costly and physically impractical to cover a large number
of parameters, particularly in the case of rural water supplies in developing
countries.
     If certain chemical contaminants are of special local significance, the levels
should be measured and the results evaluated in the light of the guideline values
and other recommendations made in Volume 1. It should also be noted that
some health effects may occur as a result of specific chemical deficiencies in the
diet, of which water forms a part. Important examples are ophthalmic goitre

                                          8
                                                                    1 INTRODUCTION




caused by iodine deficiency and dental caries resulting from low fluoride intake.
No attempt has been made in these guidelines to define a minimum desirable
concentration of such substances in drinking-water.


Physical and aesthetic aspects
The chemical and physical quality of water may affect its acceptability to consum-
ers. Turbidity, colour, taste, and odour, whether of natural or other origin, affect
consumer perceptions and behaviour. In extreme cases, consumers may avoid
aesthetically unacceptable but otherwise safe supplies in favour of more pleasant
but less wholesome sources of drinking-water.
     Although guidelines for drinking-water quality are based on the best available
public health advice, there is no guarantee that consumers will be satisfied or
dissatisfied by water supplies that meet or fail to meet those guidelines. It is
therefore wise to be aware of consumer perceptions and to take into account both
health-related guidelines and aesthetic criteria when assessing drinking-water
supplies.
•    Turbidity in excess of 5 NTU (5 JTU) may be noticeable and consequently
    objectionable to consumers.
•   Colour in drinking-water may be due to the presence of organic matter such
    as humic substances, metals such as iron and manganese, or highly coloured
    industrial wastes. Experience has shown that consumers may turn to alterna-
    tive, perhaps unsafe, sources, when their water displays aesthetically displeas-
    ing levels of colour, typically exceeding 15 TCU. Drinking-water should
    ideally be colourless.
•   Odour in water is due mainly to the presence of organic substances. Some
    odours are indicative of increased biological activity, while others may origi-
    nate from industrial pollution. Sanitary surveys should include investigations
    of sources of odour when odour problems are identified.
    The combined perception of substances detected by the senses of taste and
smell is often called "taste". "Taste" problems in drinking-water supplies are often
the largest single cause of consumer complaints. Changes in the normal taste of
a public water supply may signal changes in the quality of the raw water source
or deficiencies in the treatment process.
    Water should be free of tastes and odours that would be objectionable to the
majority of consumers.


Critical parameters of drinking-water quality in community supplies
The principal risks to human health associated with community water supplies
are microbiological, and it has been traditional to rely on relatively few water-
quality tests to establish the safety of supplies. Some agencies refer to this strategy
as "minimum monitoring', while others use the term "critical-parameter testing'.

                                          9
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




The approach is based on the assumption that health authorities will be aware of
other specific sources of risk in each region, such as chemical contamination, and
will include these in the monitoring scheme. It is much more effective to test for
a narrow range of key parameters as frequently as possible (in conjunction with a
sanitary inspection) than to conduct comprehensive but lengthy and largely
irrelevant analyses less frequently.
     The parameters recommended for the minimum monitoring of community
supplies are those that best establish the hygienic state of the water and thus the
risk (if any) of waterborne infection. The critical parameters of water quality are
thus:
          E. coli; thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms are accepted as suitable
          substitutes;
          chlorine residual (if chlorination is practised).
     These should be supplemented, where appropriate, by:
     -    pH (if chlorination is practised);
     -    turbidity (if any treatment is effected).
     The value and application of these tests are described in greater detail in
Chapter 4. However, an advantage worth noting here is that these critical
parameters may be measured on site using relatively unsophisticated testing
equipment. On-site testing is essential for the determination of turbidity and
chlorine residual, which change rapidly during transport and storage; it is also
important for the other parameters where laboratory support is lacking or where
transportation problems would render conventional sampling and analysis diffi-
cult or impossible.
     Water suppliers need to carry out a wider range of analyses relevant to the
operation and maintenance of water-treatment and distribution systems, in addi-
tion to the health-related parameters laid down in national water-quality stan-
dards. Analyses should also embrace the concept of acceptability: Volume 1
indicates that water supplied for drinking purposes should be inoffensive to
consumers. Consumers may resort to a more palatable, but possibly unsafe,
source if water is considered unacceptable; acceptability is therefore also consid-
ered a critical parameter. It may be assessed by observation (taste, colour, odour,
visible turbidity) and requires no laboratory determinations.
     Other health-related parameters of local significance should also be mea-
sured. It may sometimes be useful to include total coliforms in the bacteriological
analysis, e.g. if chlorination is practised and there is an extensive distribution
network.


Other important analyses
When supply sources are being investigated for the first time or when new sources
are being developed, it is prudent to undertake a wide range of analyses in order
to establish the overall safety and wholesomeness of the water.



                                        10
                                                                  1 INTRODUCTION




    It is essential that all water-quality factors are taken fully into account when
technologies for abstraction and treatment of new resources are selected. Seasonal
variations in the turbidity of raw surface waters can be very great, and allowance
must be made for this; treatment plants should be designed for worst-case
conditions rather than for average water quality, otherwise filters may rapidly
become blocked or sedimentation tanks overloaded. The chemical aggressiveness
of some groundwaters may affect the integrity of borehole casings and pumps,
leading to unacceptably high levels of iron in the supply, eventual breakdown,
and expensive repair work. Both the quality and availability of water may then be
reduced and public health endangered.
    In most water sources, especially groundwaters, the majority of chemical
parameters vaty relatively little with time. Thus, for routine assessments, it is ad-
visable to investigate those parameters most closely related to health risk and/or
most liable to change over short periods.


1.3.2 Water-washed diseases
A reliable, safe water supply plays an important role in disease prevention,
especially by facilitating personal, domestic, and food hygiene. The diseases most
affected by the provision of adequate quantities of water for hygienic purposes
are referred to as water-washed. They may be divided into the following three
groups:
•   Diseases transmitted by the faecal-oral route, such as hepatitis A, bacillary
    dysentery, and many diarrhoea! diseases; these are transmitted by water and
    also by other means, such as food or hands. Improved hygiene therefore
    contributes to their control.
•   Infections of the skin and eyes, such as trachoma, skin infections, and fungal
    skin diseases. The prevalence of these diseases is related to poor hygiene.
•   Infections carried by lice or mites, such as scabies (mites), and louse-borne
    epidemic typhus (caused by Rickettsia prowazeki and transmitted largely by
    body lice). Good personal hygiene can assist in control.
     Provision of water for domestic purposes in adequate quantities and quality
will contribute to reducing the incidence of diseases transmitted by the faecal-
oral route and other transmissible diseases.


1.4 Objectives of surveillance and quality control
Surveillance is an investigative activity undertaken to identify and evaluate factors
associated with drinking-water which could pose a risk to health. Surveillance
contributes to the protection of public health by promoting improvement of the
quality, quantity, coverage, cost, and continuity of water supplies. It is also both
preventive-detecting risks so that action may be taken before public health



                                         11
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




problems occur-and remedial-identifYing the sources of outbreaks of
waterborne disease so that corrective action may be taken promptly.
    Surveillance requires a systematic programme of surveys that combine
analysis, sanitary inspection, and institutional and community aspects. Sanitary
inspection should cover the whole of the water-supply system including sources,
conduction lines, treatment plants, storage reservoirs, and distribution systems.
    Surveillance is indispensable for the development of rational strategies for the
improvement of the quality of water-supply services.
    Quality control is designed to ensure that water services meet agreed national
standards and institutional targets.
    Water suppliers are responsible at all times for the quality and safety of the
water that they produce, and they achieve this by a combination of good operat-
ing practice and preventive maintenance, supported by quality control. Water-
quality control is the responsibility of the water supplier and involves the
establishment of safeguards in the production and distribution of drinking-water
as well as the routine testing of water quality to ensure compliance with national
standards.
    Quality control is distinguished from surveillance on the basis of institutional
responsibilities and the frequency of the monitoring activities conducted. The
surveillance agency is responsible for an independent (external) and periodic
audit of all aspects of safety, whereas the water supplier is responsible at all times
for regular quality control, and for monitoring and ensuring good operating
practice.


1.5 Organizational structure
Organizational arrangements for the improvement of water-supply services
should take into account the vital and complementary roles of the agency respon-
sible for surveillance and of the water supplier. The two functions outlined in
section 1.4, i.e. surveillance and quality control, are best performed by separate
and independent entities because of the conflict of interests that arises when the
two are combined. Nevertheless, because the two are essentially complementary,
the monitoring of water-supply services should involve both the surveillance
agency and the supplier.
     Important aspects of a surveillance programme include the following:

•   The surveillance agency should have sole responsibility within the health
    authority for providing surveillance services to protect the public from
    waterborne diseases and other hazards associated with the water supply.
•   Water-supply surveillance should be integrated with other environmental
    health measures, especially sanitation.
•   Surveillance requires specialized knowledge, and the agency should thus
    include personnel specially trained in sanitary engineering, community
    health, epidemiology, chemistry, biology, etc. Additional support should

                                         12
                                                                  1 INTRODUCTION




    be provided by the medical profession, particularly during an outbreak of
    enteric disease.
•   Health authorities should have centralized laboratories and other services
    needed for programmes of water-supply surveillance.
•   Periodic reports to the government regarding the public health status of the
    country's water supplies should be produced.
     In countries where urban water suppliers have established effective quality
control, the surveillance agency may choose to place greater emphasis on the
problems of the less well served populations. Such populations are specifically
addressed in this publication, and include both rural communities and urban
fringe areas.


1.5.1 The surveillance agency
In most countries the agency responsible for the surveillance of drinking-water
supply services is the ministry of health (or public health) and its regional or
departmental offices. In some countries there is an environmental protection
agency; in others, the environmental health departments of local government
may have some responsibility. The surveillance agency should preferably be an
established institution designated by national legislation, should be represented at
national level, and should operate at central, provincial (departmental/regional),
and local (district) levels. Its responsibilities should encompass the monitoring of
compliance with supply service standards (including quality, coverage, quantity,
continuity, and cost) by water suppliers, approving sources of drinking-water,
and surveying the provision of drinking-water to the population as a whole.
     Surveillance is concerned with all water used for domestic purposes by the
population, whether supplied by a formal water-supply agency or collected from
individual sources or supplies. The agency's area of responsibility should there-
fore embrace all sources of water used, or intended for use, for human consump-
tion. Nevertheless, in many developing countries, especially where there are many
sources that may each supply a small population, such a goal may be difficult and
expensive to achieve. Priority should therefore be given to systems that provide
water to larger populations and those suspected of causing a substantial risk to
human health, and to the identification of the most common risks and shortcom-
ings in the supplies.


1.5.2 Quality control and the role of the water supplier
What is said above does not exclude water-supply and construction agencies from
involvement in surveillance; in fact, it is vital that they should be involved. While
it is the responsibility of the surveillance agency to generate and summarize
surveillance data and to promote improvements, it is the water-supply sector that
will carry out many of the actions designed to improve supplies. In addition,

                                         13
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




supply and construction agencies are responsible for quality control of the service
they provide. However, there may not always be a clear division of responsibilities
between the health and water-supply sectors. In some cases, the range of profes-
sional, governmental, nongovernmental, and private institutions may be wider
and more complex than that discussed above. Whatever the existing framework,
it is important that clear strategies and structures are developed for implementing
surveillance and quality control, collating and summarizing data, reporting and
disseminating the findings, and taking remedial action. Similarly, clear lines of
accountability and communication are essential.
      The organizational arrangements for carrying out surveillance and quality-
control activities may be modified as programmes move from the pilot stage to
regional and then national implementation. It is important that basic local.
regional, and national frameworks should be in place from the outset in order to
avoid subsequent confusion, but they may well be refined and improved in the
light of experience during the implementation of activities. It is preferable to
develop and build on existing frameworks than to impose radical changes imme-
diately before or during a programme.


1.6 Community participation
Community participation is an essential component of the surveillance frame-
work. As primary beneficiaries of improved water supplies, community members
have a right to take part in decision-making about their own future. They
represent a resource that can be drawn upon for local knowledge, experience,
financial support, and labour. They are the people who are most likely to notice
problems in the water supply first and can therefore take immediate remedial
action. Establishing a genuine partnership with the community creates a climate
of trust and understanding, which itself generates interest and enthusiasm. This
provides a good foundation for other educational activities such as the promotion
of latrines and of good hygiene practices.
     The community's role in the planning and implementation of surveillance
can valuably include the following:
         assisting in the establishment of procedures for surveillance;
         assisting in data collection;
         assisting field workers in water sampling;
         monitoring water quantity and quality and regularly reporting findings
         to surveillance staff;
         ensuring appropriate use of water supplies;
         setting priorities for remedial action, including improvement of water
         supplies, sanitation, and hygiene;
         undertaking simple maintenance and repairs;
         referral of problems that require special attention.
In involving the community in surveillance it is important to:



                                        14
                                                                        1 INTRODUCTION




        provide an effective method, easily used by volunteers, to identify sani-
        tary hazards associated with the water supply;
        provide training to community members in undertaking sanitary surveys
        and remedial action, and provide long-term support for such training in
        order to ensure sustainability.


1. 7 Role of surveillance in improvement of water
supplies
For water-supply surveillance to lead to improved drinking-water supply services
it is vital that the mechanisms for promoting improvement are recognized and
used.
     A checklist of mechanisms for water-supply improvement based on the
output of surveillance is given in Table 1.2. Similar concepts can be applied to


Table 1.2 Mechanisms for the improvement of water-supply
          services based on the results of water-supply
          surveillance
    Establishing national priorities
    When the commonest problems and shortcomings 1n water-supply systems have
    been 1dent1fied, nat1onal strateg1es can be formulated for improvements and
    remed1al measures, these m1ght include changes 1n tra1n1ng (of managers,
    administrators, engineers, or f1eld staff), roll1ng programmes for rehabilitation or
    Improvement, or changes 1n funding strategies to target spec1f1c needs
•   Establishing regional priorities
    Reg1onal off1ces of water-supply agenc1es can dec1de which communities to work 1n
    and wh1ch remed1al act1v1t1es are pnontles, public health Criteria should be
    considered when priorities are set
•   Establishing hygiene education
    Not all of the problems revealed by surveillance are technical 1n nature, and not all
    are solved by supply and construction agencies, surveillance also looks at problems
    1nvolv1ng private supplies, water collection and transport, and household treatment
    and storage The solut1ons to many of these problems are l1kely to requ1re
    educational and promotional act1v1t1es coordinated by the health agency
•   Enforcement of standards
    Many countnes have laws and standards related to public water supply The
    1nformat1on generated by surveillance can be used to assess compliance w1th
    standards by supply agenc1es Corrective act1on can be taken where necessary, but
    1ts feas1bil1ty must be considered, and enforcement of standards should be l1nked to
    strateg1es for progressive Improvement
    Ensuring community operation and maintenance
    Support should be prov1ded by a designated authonty to enable community
    members to be tra1ned so that they are able to assume respons1bi11ty for the
    operation and maintenance of the1r water suppl1es




                                            15
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




water-quality control programmes, but it is then likely that greater emphasis will
be placed on the setting of investment priorities at regional and national levels
than on hygiene education and enforcement. Each of the mechanisms is discussed
in greater detail in subsequent chapters.
     Information alone does not lead to improvement. It is the effective manage-
ment and use of the information generated by surveillance that makes possible the
rational improvement of water supplies-where "rational" implies that available
resources are used for maximum public health benefit.




                                       16
2.
Planning and implementation of
surveillance



2.1 Legal and institutional basis
2.1.1 Laws, regulations, and standards
Effective programmes to control drinking-water quality depend ideally on the
existence of adequate legislation, standards, and codes. One of the functions of
the basic legislation is to define the functions, authority, and responsibilities of
the water-supply agency and the surveillance agency. Standards and codes should
specify the quality of the water to be supplied to the consumer, the practices to
be followed in selecting and developing water sources and in treatment processes
and distribution systems, and procedures for approving water systems in terms of
water quality. The precise nature of the legislation in each country will depend on
national, constitutional, and other considerations.
     Experience has shown that the basic legislation should be limited to general
principles and to specifying offences and penalties for its contravention. The
authority to establish and revise drinking-water standards, codes of practice, and
other technical regulations should be delegated to the appropriate government
minister-preferably the minister of health-who is responsible for ensuring the
quality of water supplies and the protection of public health. The authority
to establish and enforce quality standards and regulations may be vested in a
ministry other than that usually responsible for public and/or environmental
health. Consideration should then be given to requiring that water-quality stand-
ards are promulgated only after approval by the public health or environmental
health authority so as to ensure their conformity with health-protection
principles.
     Such legislation commonly makes provision for the establishment and
amendment of drinking-water quality standards and guidelines, as well as regula-
tions for the development of drinking-water sources, and the production, main-
tenance, and distribution of safe drinking-water. It also generally establishes the
legal functions and responsibilities of the water-supply agency, and states clearly
that, as an organization that sells and/or supplies water to the consumer, this
agency has a legal duty to supply safe and wholesome water that meets legally
established water-quality standards. In addition, the agency is responsible for
providing continuous and effective quality assurance and quality control of water

                                        17
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




supplies, including inspection, supervision, preventive maintenance, routine test-
ing of water quality, and remedial actions as required.
    The water-supply agency should be deemed responsible for the safety and
quality of the water supply up to a defined point in the distribution system,
generally the house connection or public standpost.
    A country-wide or regional water-supply company or governmental organi-
zation often supplies drinking-water to a municipal water-supply agency or a local
water-distribution company or group. As the "wholesaler", the primary supplier
should be legally responsible for the water quality up to the point of connection
to the pipelines of the local supplier; the organization that supplies the public
directly then becomes the "retailer". In other words, each organization should
carry legal responsibility for the quality of the water supply up to the point of
delivery to the "customer".
     Governments should also consider introducing legislation that would enable
individuals or community organizations to take legal action to enforce water-
quality standards and regulations. They should consider making legal provisions
for water-supply agencies to initiate legal action to protect their water sources and
distribution systems from sources of pollution. This is particularly important
in areas where no effective government programme is in operation to control
pollution.
     The surveillance agency should be given the necessary powers to administer
and enforce laws, regulations, standards, and codes concerned with water quality.
It should also be able to delegate those powers to other specified agencies
such as municipal councils, local health departments, regional authorities,
nongovernmental (community) organizations, universities, and qualified,
government-authorized private testing services.
     Many countries lack basic legislation of this sort, and in others the existing
legislation is seriously outdated. However, many interim measures to ensure
drinking-water quality can be enforced under existing general health, food, and
welfare legislation. Implementation of programmes to provide safe drinking-
water should not be delayed because of a lack of appropriate legislation.
     Even where legally binding guidelines or standards for drinking-water have
yet to be promulgated it may be possible to encourage, and even enforce, the
supply of safe drinking-water through educational efforts or commercial, contrac-
tual arrangements between customer and supplier based on civil law.
     The application of water-supply legislation is considered in Chapter 8.


2.1.2 Institutional framework for water-quality surveillance
The main role of surveillance in the management of community water supplies is
to assess the safety and acceptability of the water distributed to the public so that
consumers are consistently and reliably protected from the health hazards of
contaminated supplies. Surveillance therefore adds considerably to the value of



                                         18
                            2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




water, especially for domestic use. It facilitates the recovery of its cost and
increases its health benefits.
     Water-qualiry surveillance requires an institutional framework that reflects its
objectives and functions and gives key responsibilities to the relevant bodies-not
just the agencies in charge of supplying water and promoting health but all
institutions with relevant normative, developmental, educational, and control
functions.
     At the centre of this framework major responsibility for surveillance is shared
between two agencies whose activities should be both mutually exclusive and
complementary. The water-supply agency is responsible for the quality and safety
of the water that it produces and distributes, while the surveillance agency has
overall responsibility for ensuring that all drinking-water supplies under its juris-
diction are free from health hazards. Indirectly, however, health hazards related to
the ingestion or other utilization of contaminated water from unprotected sources
may be the fault of the water-supply agency if it has failed to fulfil its mandate,
thus causing the public to use unsafe supplies.
     The water-supply agency also differs from the surveillance agency in the sense
that it carries out routine testing and monitoring of the quality of the water that
it produces, while the public health protection agency conducts independent
surveillance audits of water quality to determine whether the water-supply agency
is fulfilling its responsibility.
     The key basic principle in the implementation of a reliable programme of
surveillance of drinking-water quality is that this two-tier system is absolutely
necessary. It is imperative that the public health protection agency is adequately
equipped to fulfil its regulation functions. If it is not, surveillance tasks can be
subcontracted by the surveillance agency to a third party, such as a private
company, at a cost that can be recovered, e.g. in the selling price of water.
Monitoring by the water-supply agency of the quality of its own product, or that
of an affiliated company, should never be considered as a satisfactory substitute
for independent surveillance.
     Another important principle is that the institutional and legal arrangements
for water-quality surveillance should lend themselves to both decentralization and
intersectoral cooperation. Like all water-related activities, water-quality promo-
tion and control are fragmented horizontally between a large number of produc-
ers, users, and planning, financing, and monitoring agencies, as well as vertically
between national and regional agencies with limited potential for decentraliza-
tion, numerous local authorities with scarce resources, and a very large number of
consumption points, especially in developing countries.
     lntersectoral cooperation is required in all activities related to the promotion
and surveillance of water quality, from the normative functions to the actual
supply of water, the surveillance of water quality, and the implementation of
preventive and remedial measures. At the normative stage, those agencies respon-
sible for the protection of public health and for the supply of water should, in



                                         19
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




consultation with one another, agree on safe and feasible water-quality standards.
To ensure that these standards are also acceptable to consumers, the communities
served should always be involved, together with the major water users, including
industrial or agricultural concerns that may compete for the same water source or
public supply.
     Other normative and regulatory functions belong to such ministries as those
responsible for public works, housing, natural resources, or the environment,
which are concerned with the design of water-supply and waste-disposal systems,
equipment standards, plumbing codes and rules, water allocation, protection and
conservation, and waste collection, treatment, and disposal. The economic plan-
ning unit (for resources allocation), the ministries and agencies in charge of
internal affairs and local government (for community issues), and the ministry of
finance (in relation to water tariffs) should be consulted on issues within their
respective areas of competence. Private autonomous water suppliers should also
be involved in drawing up standards if this is justified by their individual or
collective size and importance; the national regulations, adjusted as necessary,
should always be applicable to such water suppliers. Successful intersectoral
coordination requires the involvement of agencies responsible for community
development and hygiene education in all activities and at all levels; these agencies
are usually more easily decentralized than the water authorities. Public health
agencies are often closer to the community than those responsible for its water
supply. At local level, they also interact with other sectors, e.g. education, and
their combined action is essential to ensure active community involvement.
     Public health surveillance teams operate at national, provincial, and district
levels, as well as in cities or at rural health centres. However, public health
laboratories may be available only in large cities, in which case the use of field kits
for water-quality testing (see pp. 65-66) by mobile surveillance teams may help
to bridge the gap between fixed laboratories and remote communities.
     Where they are able to operate in remote areas with widely scattered popu-
lations, surveillance teams can also provide essential epidemiological information
that can be used in planning, and information on major faults that is valuable in
the organization of maintenance. Where water-quality surveillance teams cannot
operate, nongovernmental organizations can help, and community volunteers
can also be trained. In some countries, religious missions, aid agencies, and
scientific institutes play important roles in water-quality surveillance.

2.2 Planning
2.2.1 General considerations
To be successful, water-supply surveillance and quality control must be well
planned, and the definition of objectives is fundamental to any planning process.
In addition to the main objectives of surveillance and quality control identified in
section 1.4, there will be a number of complementary objectives. These will vary
according to the conditions under which the activities are to be implemented and

                                         20
                            2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




will most commonly encompass the activities to be undertaken during imple-
mentation. Examples include the following:
         provision of equipment and training;
         determination of trends in the quality of the drinking-water supply
         service with time as shown by specific indicators;
         provision of information to public authorities for general public health
         protection purposes (i.e. information dissemination);
         identification of sources of contamination;
         investigation of piped distribution networks;
         identification of remedial strategies;
         assessment of the performance of water-treatment plants;
         involvement of communities in the surveillance process.
     Targets provide the link between objectives and the plan of work, and should
be reviewed at regular intervals, perhaps annually. In developing a surveillance
programme, early targets would typically include:
         preparation of a comprehensive water-supply inventory;
         development of preliminary standard methodologies (e.g. for analytical
         procedures, field work, and reporting);
         establishment of regional laboratories capable of undertaking specified
         analyses;
         training of staff responsible for water sample analysis at regional and local
         levels;
         preliminary survey visits to a number of communities, and involving
         community members in surveys and briefings as a preparation for their
         role in community-based surveillance;
         implementation targets such as coverage (number of communities
         visited);
         analysis of the data produced and dissemination of the findings to each
         community, to the local and regional authorities, to the water-supply
         and health agencies at regional and national levels, and to a national
         institution responsible for planning and coordination;
         community-based education in hygiene.
     Surveillance should clearly not be limited to data collection. For example, if
it is noted that there is a particular need to promote public involvement in
questions of water supply or to undertake appropriate health education, it may be
decided that particular emphasis should be placed on these activities. It is impor-
tant to ensure that specific objectives and targets are not overambitious: they
should be clearly defined and achievable within a sensible, defined time-scale.
     Objectives should not be established in the capital city and imposed on those
required to implement the programme nationally. They must be discussed and
agreed at all levels following a period of genuine and broad-based consultation,
starting at the community level. If people are committed to a common goal and
a common set of objectives, many of the problems commonly encountered
during implementation will be overcome simply and with good will.

                                         21
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




2.2.2 Strategies

The community management of water-supply services was one of the basic
principles laid down at the Global Consultation on Safe Water and Sanitation in
New Delhi in September 1990, which marked the end of the International
Drinking-Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. Application of this principle
implies that decisions must be taken at the lowest appropriate level, after public
consultation and with the involvement of users in the planning and implementa-
tion of water-supply projects. Government programmes should provide assis-
tance and support to communities in managing their own water-quality control
systems.
     The implementation of water-supply programmes and the accompanying
surveillance is a national responsibility. To a vatying degree, responsibility for the
operation of supply and surveillance systems should be delegated to all adminis-
trative levels, down to the community and the individual served. National
authorities should therefore develop mechanisms for collaboration at all levels;
this is particularly important if full advantage is to be taken of community-based
approaches and self-reliance as tools for achieving sustainability. Women must be
involved in all aspects of water-supply and surveillance systems, including plan-
ning, decision-making, implementation, and evaluation. In addition, broad-
based educational programmes should be established, with particular emphasis
on hygiene, local management, and risk reduction.
     Where it represents a new activity for health or environmental-protection
agencies, the implementation of surveillance activities should begin at the pilot
level, progress to regional level, and then expand to national level. The principle
of initial pilot-scale implementation is important and has been found to be widely
applicable. Other procedures for progressive implementation also exist; thus it
may sometimes be appropriate to begin with larger centres of population and
work down to small-community supplies. In both cases, it is important for
activities to be initiated on the pilot scale and to be subject to evaluation and
improvement.
     Any approach in which extension to the national level takes place too rapidly
has a number of potential disadvantages. This is especially true where implemen-
tation at pilot and regional levels depends on a national authority. In these
circumstances, extension to a national surveillance or quality-control programme
may make sudden and severe demands on the human and financial resources of
this body. Careful preparation in terms of training and resource provision is
always required.
     Quality-control activities should be initiated as each new supply system is
constructed, and should be continued on a routine basis thereafter. There is thus
no question of a staged implementation of these activities unless the quality-
control function has never been initiated or has collapsed and requires rehabilita-
tion. Only the progressive implementation of water-supply surveillance is
considered here, since in many countries it may represent a new activity. How-

                                         22
                            2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




ever, much of the detail concerning inventories, the design of forms, training, and
field work is also relevant to the quality-control activities of a water supplier.
     The limited availability of resources (especially in developing countries)
makes it advisable to start surveillance with a basic programme that develops in
a planned manner. Activities in the early stages must generate enough useful data
to demonstrate the value of surveillance. Thereafter, the objective should be to
progress to more advanced surveillance as resources and conditions permit. Three
distinct phases may be identified-initial, intermediate, and advanced. The ac-
tivities associated with each phase are summarized in Table 2.1.


2.3 Implementation
Surveillance activities differ from country to country and region to region,
between urban and rural communities, and according to the types of water
supply. They should be adapted to local conditions and to the availability oflocal
financial resources, personnel, infrastructure, and knowledge-base. Factors influ-
encing surveillance activities include:
         the type and size of water-supply systems;
         the equipment, both existing and available;
         local employment practices, and the level of training of personnel;
         opportunities for community participation;
         geographical conditions (e.g. the accessibility of systems);
         climatological conditions (which may hamper activities during certain
         seasons);
         communication and transport infrastructure.
In practice, the sequence of activities in the development of surveillance is usually
similar to that summarized in Fig. 2.1.


2.3.1 Inventories
Methods of providing drinking-water vary widely. They may include the use of
piped supplies with or without treatment and with or without pumping (supplied
via domestic connection or public standpipe), delivery by tanker truck or carriage
by pack animals, or collection from groundwater sources (springs or wells) or
surface sources (lakes, rivers, and streams). All members of the population receive
water by some means, and it is important for the surveillance agency to build up
a picture of the frequency of use of the different types of supply, especially as a
preliminary step in the planning of a surveillance programme. There is little to be
gained from undertaking the surveillance of piped water supplies alone if these
are available to only a small proportion of the population. Although the supply
agency should be responsible for the quality control of all its supplies, its water
sources will only rarely include open dug wells and private supplies, which may
be more highly contaminated. For these sources surveillance is of paramount
importance.

                                         23
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 2.1 Activities to be undertaken in the initial, intermediate,
          and advanced phases of water-supply surveillance
Initial phase
      Establish requirements for 1nstitut1onal development
      Prov1de tra1n1ng for staff Involved 1n programme
      Start mventones of supply systems
•     Undertake sample surveys to 1dent1fy pnonty areas
•     Develop methodologies suitable for the area
•     Commence rout1ne surveillance 1n pnonty areas
      L1mit water-qual1ty analys1s to cnt1cal parameters and known problem substances
      Establish report1ng, fil1ng, and communications systems (paper-based, rather than
      computenzed)
•     Make Improvements accord1ng to 1dent1f1ed pnont1es
•     Establish report1ng to local suppl1ers, commun1t1es, and reg1onal authont1es
•     Establish liaison w1th commun1t1es, 1dent1fy community roles 1n surveillance and
      means of promot1ng commun1ty participation
Intermediate phase
•    Tra1n staff Involved 1n programme
•    Complete 1nventones of supply systems
     Establish and expand systematiC rout1ne surveillance
     Expand analyt1cal capability (often by means of reg1onal laboratones, nat1onal
     laboratones be1ng largely responsible for analytical qual1ty control and tra1n1ng of
     reg1onal laboratory staff)
•    Undertake surveys for chemical contaminants us1ng w1der range of analytical
     methods
     Evaluate all methodologies (sampling, analys1s, etc)
     Use draft standard methods (e g analytical methods, fieldwork procedures)
•    Establish (and possibly computenze) database arch1ve
•    ldent1fy common problems, Improve activities to address them at reg1onal and
     national levels
     Expand report1ng to Include interpretation at national level
     Draft or rev1se nat1onal standards and leg1slat1on
•    Use legal enforcement where possible
•    Involve commun1t1es routinely 1n surveillance 1mplementat1on
Advanced phase
   Tra1n staff Involved 1n programme
•   Establish rout1ne surveillance for all health and acceptab1l1ty parameters at defined
   frequencies
•  Use full network of central, regional, and local laboratones (1nclud1ng analytical
   qual1ty control)
    Use nat1onal standards and leg1slat1on
•   Improve water serv1ces on the bas1s of national and local pnontles, hyg1ene
   education, and enforcement of standards
•  Disseminate data at all levels (local, reg1onal, and nat1onal)
    Involve communities rout1nely 1n surveillance 1mplementat1on




                                             24
                          2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




Fig. 2. 1 Sequence of activities in the development of surveillance


        Make an inventory of
      communities, populations,
         and water supplies


                  t
         Investigate means of
        involving communities
            in surveillance


                  t
        Develop report forms
         for data collection


                 T
          Organize training


                  t
       Plan preliminary survey


                  t
         Undertake fieldwork
                                  I
                                            Develop routine yearly
                                             plan for visits to all
                                  I             communities

                  t
             Collate and
           interpret results


                  t
      Promote improvement by
       prioritization, hygiene,             Evaluate methods, report
          and legal act1on                      forms, and staff;
                                           revise methods and forms
                  !                           and improve training

       Report to consumers,
      suppliers, and planners,
       and monitor follow-up
         and improvement
                                                               WH096537




                                      25
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




      An inventory of all existing water-supply systems should be prepared by the
surveillance agency, drawing on local communiry knowledge. It should include
a register of communities, together with data on their total population; this
information is often available through censuses. Descriptions of all known
water-supply systems should be included, with details of physical components,
administrative arrangements, and population served, supplemented by other
relevant information (for example, on access and transport requirements).
      Some of the information required for an initial inventory may be collected by
means of a desk study but should be checked in the field through inspection and
meetings with community groups and local leaders. This is especially important
when information on water-supply systems is obtained from a central agency. It
is then almost inevitable that the records will be incomplete, because systems may
have been constructed by different agencies, possibly before records were kept, or
by individuals or the communities themselves. A rypical form for use in making
an inventory of community water supplies is illustrated in Fig 2.2; it should be
adapted according to local circumstances.
      Where the initial inventory fails to show the means of supply to a significant
proportion of the population, a survey should be undertaken to determine
whether the information is incomplete and the means by which water is supplied
to the remainder of the population.
      In addition to a general overview of how the population obtains water for
domestic purposes, the inventory provides a preliminary assessment of the
workload of the surveillance agency and the field support required to involve the
communiry in surveillance. This enables the cost of implementation to be esti-
mated. It is important for such estimates to be realistic. Since it is unlikely that
all existing supplies will have been identified, additional surveys may be necessary
if, for example, open dug wells are found to be an important source of water and
therefore to merit attention. It is also unlikely that estimates of travel time and
transportation requirements will be accurate, and some allowance should be made
for errors.


2.3.2 Des1gning forms
Simple-to-use communiry survey and sanitary inspection forms must be carefully
developed. These should take the form of pictorial or written checklists that
ensure standardized responses and assist the person doing the work to make a
rapid assessment of water-supply service quality. Examples of report forms are given
in Fig. 2.2 (community surveys) and Annex 2 (sanitary inspection); their design
is described in detail in section 3.3. However, community water supplies vary
widely, and it is important to evaluate the forms in the light of, and adapt them
to suit, specific regional or national conditions. Where appropriate, separate forms
should be designed for use by communities in assessing their own water supplies.
    The sanitary survey report form may include details that also appear on the
inventory, but since the information in the latter is not likely to change very

                                        26
                            2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




much, it is more practical for the two to be separate. The sanitary survey report
form should contain sanitary inspection details and therefore at least a checklist
of the components of the system, including those for which the risk of contami-
nation is greatest. The form should also include assessments of water-supply
service indicators other than water quality, namely cost, coverage, continuity, and
quantity.
     In countries where there are many different types of supply, several different
sanitary survey report forms may be necessary; a standard form may otherwise run
to several pages.
     The design, evaluation, and revision of sanitary survey report forms is impor-
tant in the development of a surveillance programme. Only essential information
should be collected, so that field staff are not burdened with collecting superflu-
ous data. The order in which questions are arranged should coincide with that in




Fig. 2.2 Typical form for making an inventory of community water
         supplies


Date of   VIS!                               Name of community
Agency responsible for supply
Commun1ty representative responsible for supply
Total population
Population served by
- house connections
- standposts
- protected spnngs/wells
-other
D1stance to mon1tonng base              km
Traval t1me from mon1tonng base              hours, by             (means of travel)
For p1ped systems
- source type
- treatment components
   - 1nfiltrat1on gallenes                       Y/N
   - surface-water 1ntake                        Y/N
   - sed1mentat1on                               Y/N
   - prefiltrallon                               Y/N
   - slow sand filtration                        Y/N
   - aerat1on                                    Y/N
   - d1sinfect1on                                Y/N
- number of reservo1rs
- number of standposts
- number of household connect1ons
Health post/centre                Y/N
School                            Y/N


                                               27
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




which work is to be undertaken. Where there is to be on-the-spot reporting, the
form should incorporate or be accompanied by an appropriate extra section for
reporting the community responsible for, or the caretaker of, the supply. Clearly
worded questions that will yield yes/ no answers should be used wherever possible:
standardized answers permit statistical analysis, which minimizes subjectivity in
reporting and maximizes the usefulness of findings.


2.3.3 Training
The quality of the information produced by a surveillance programme will
depend largely on that of the work undertaken by the staff responsible for liaison
with communities, filling in the sanitary survey report form, and undertaking
water-quality analysis. The personnel responsible for data collection in the field
therefore need to be trained in a number of skills, including interviewing,
working with communities, observation, sampling, and water-quality analysis.
Adequate training in these areas will help ensure that surveillance findings are
standardized throughout the programme and not subject to regional or local
variations.
     The importance of training cannot be overemphasized. The training strat-
egies adopted will depend on:
           the previous training and experience of the staff allocated to surveillance;
           the range of activities to be undertaken by the surveillance agency and its
           staff (e.g. hygiene education may or may not be the responsibility of field
           staff);
           local water supply practice;
           the practical organization of surveillance (e.g. whether water-quality
           testing is to be undertaken on site by field staff or in laboratories).
     To ensure that the surveillance agency functions effectively, adequate train-
ing should be provided for staff at all levels. Separate training courses are required
for field staff, laboratory staff, regional and national managers, and so on. Al-
though not strictly training activities, workshops and seminars for the dissemina-
tion of surveillance findings are also important for promotional and motivational
reasons.
     It is advisable for the surveillance agency to develop a comprehensive strategy
for human resource development. This should include clear definition of lines of
responsibility and accountability, job descriptions, career structures, and mecha-
nisms for enhancing the motivation of staff at all levels. A training strategy
suitable for a four-tier surveillance agency is shown in Fig. 2.3.
     For field staff responsible for liaison with communities, on-site water-quality
testing, sanitary inspection, and data reporting, the minimum training period
should be 2 weeks. This assumes that staff have a general background in environ-
mental health; considerably longer may be required if they have not already
received some vocational training. A subject list for a 2-week training course
suitable for sanitary technicians working in the field is given in Table 2.2.

                                          28
                         2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




Fig. 2.3 Training strategy for surveillance


Information !low,                                          Programme philosophy
data processing,                                           and general objectives
and report1 ng                                             Strategy,
Programme management,                                      implementation plan,
planning and                                               and current status
administration                                      _~     Information management
                                  Directors
F1eld supervision                                          for sector prJorJtJzatJon
and technician                     Regional
                                 coordinators              Recent findmgs
training
Evaluation of portable
and laboratory
test equipment                  Health reg1ons
                                Health region
                                  directors
                                  Directors of
                             environmental health
                                 Surveillance
                                 supervisors
                                 Techmcians         +--+   Information flow
                                                           1n general
                                  Reg1onal
Training for regional          laboratory staH             Local reportmg
laboratory staff:                                          Principles of water
-Analytical techniques                                     supply and treatment
-Laboratory                                                Sanitary inspection
  management                     Health areas         .    Use and mamtenance
-InformatiOn flow and            Technicians               of portable and
  data managememt                                          laboratory water-testing
                                                           equ1pment
                                 Community




                             Water and health
                             Sanitary inspection
                             Hyg1ene
                             Monitoring of
                             water supplies
                                                                               WHO 96538




                                      29
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 2.2 Typical subjects for 2-week training module in water-
          supply surveillance for sanitary technicians
Health, faecal-oral d1sease transmiSSIOn
Bamers for the control of transmiSSible d1seases
Water, food, san1tat1on, and health education
Water-supply surveillance and qual1ty control
Water supply system types and bas1c charactenst1cs
Protection of po1nt-source supplies
Gravity-fed systems from protected sources-charactenstics and terminology
Components of grav1ty-fed systems from protected sources-po1nts of nsk
Evaluation and san1tary Inspection of grav1ty-fed systems from protected sources
F1eld VISit to grav1ty-fed system from protected spnng source
Indicators of faecal contam1nat1on, water-qual1ty standards
Demonstration of, and laboratory practice w1th, water-test1ng equipment
Sampling and sample preservation
Water-treatment pnnc1ples
Components of rural dnnk1ng-water treatment systems
F1eld VISit to rural treatment plant, 1nclud1ng 1nspect1on, sampling, and analys1s
Information flow 1n the surveillance programme, report1ng
Serv1ce evaluation (cost, quant1ty, continuity), water-quality evaluation
Fieldwork on evaluation of serv1ce qual1ty and water qual1ty 1n the d1stnbut1on network
San1tary Inspections and 1nspect1on report forms
F1eld v1s1t sanitary 1nspect1on and sampl1ng
Work1ng w1th commun1t1es
PartiCipatory learn1ng techniques
Workshop sess1on for plann1ng of 1mplementat1on act1v1t1es
Round-table d1scuss1on
Course evaluation
Assessment of part1c1pants (pre- and post-tra1n1ng)




   Training should not be viewed as a once-only activity, but as a continuous
commitment, with follow-up courses, review workshops, and field supervision all
contributing to in-service training.


2.3.4 Preliminary surveys
The drawing up of work schedules will be determined largely by local conditions
such as distance and accessibility (travel time), travel problems of a seasonal
nature, and availability of staff, costs, and transport. Targets for minimum
frequencies for sanitary inspection and water-quality analysis are given in Chap-
ters 3 and 4 respectively. In many countries even these targets may be difficult to
meet in the short term, and they should then be viewed as medium-term goals.

                                             30
                             2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




2.3.5 Undertaking fieldwork
Information on community surveys and sanitary inspection, and on water sampling
and analysis is given in Chapters 3 and 4 respectively. Nevertheless, it is worth
considering here two important aspects of field methodology in the context of
planning for water-quality surveillance and quality control. Firstly, staff respon-
sible for field activities should ideally give local authorities advance notice of their
visit, especially when a representative of the authority concerned must be present
to provide access to parts of the supply system; staff should be accompanied by a
representative of the supply agency whenever possible. Secondly, after on-site
inspection and an analysis of the findings, problems or defects may be pointed out
in the field to the local authorities or the representatives of the supply agency.


2.3.6 Establishing routine surveillance
When the preliminary survey has been successfully completed, it is possible to
plan for routine surveillance. The findings of the preliminary survey may have
profound implications for subsequent surveillance activities; for example, surveil-
lance should take due account of the most widely used method of supplying water
for domestic purposes or the one that presents the greatest public health risk to
the population.
     The methods and strategies employed in the preliminary survey should be
evaluated and then revised as necessary. This revision should be reflected in
training, planning for routine surveillance, expansion of surveillance coverage,
surveillance management, and strategies for the promotion of remedial action.


2.3.7 Evaluation
Evaluation is an essential stage in the implementation of surveillance
programmes. It is greatly assisted by clearly defined project objectives and targets
against which progress can be measured. For evaluation to be worth while, it must
have clearly defined goals, which should include comparisons with the objectives
and targets adopted at the outset. Evaluation should involve personnel from all
levels and should result in change when this is indicated. When initial targets
have been met, new targets can be defined. A dual-cycle procedure for the
evaluation of water-supply surveillance and for promoting and monitoring im-
provements is illustrated in Fig. 2.4.


2.4 Information management
2.4.1 Flow and use of information
A general scheme for the flow of information between and within the water-
supply and surveillance agencies is shown in Fig. 2.5. Clearly there is an obliga-
tion on the part of both agencies to communicate effectively-both laterally and

                                          31
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 2.4 Dual-cycle procedure for evaluation of water-supply
         surveillance



           Planning                                       Implementation
        of surveillance                                    of surveillance
           activities                                         activities




                             Evaluation of activities


                              Evaluation of findings




           Promotion                               _,        Monitoring
       of improvements                                   of improvements


                                                                        WH096539



vertically-in order to maxtmlZe the quality of service to consumers and to
protect public health.

2.4.2 Information exchange with suppliers
As the first stage, the surveillance agency should report to the local office of the
water supplier. Such reporting should be followed up and, if recommended and
feasible corrective action is not undertaken in a reasonable time, notification to a
higher authority may be required. The level to which such notifications should be
sent may vary according to the supply agency but, in general, it should be the level
with ultimate responsibility for the supply.
     As a minimum, the information provided by the surveillance agency to the
supplier should include:
         a summary of the quality of the service being provided and the condition
         of the supply; and
         an indication of those aspects considered inadequate and requiring
         action (with reference to national legislation).

                                        32
                           2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




Fig. 2.5 General scheme for the flow of information between and
         within the water-supply and surveillance agencies


                                                          Intersectoral
                                                          coordination
                                                           committee




                                                          yearly overvrews for
   National                    National                                                               National
   database                     office                  prror~llzatron   rn ptannrng                   office


                   52                     !;
                   1:'!
                   0
                    ~
                                          i       >;
                   g                              ~
                                         0
                   E
                   5l
                                         ~
                    ~                    j
                   "'§E

                                                          yearly overvrews for
   Regional                   Regional                                                                Regional
   datafile                    office                         PriOrllrzatron                           office

                                          !;
                                          >
                   g_                     ~       >;

                                                  ~
                          >;             0

                   '""'
                                                                                     legal actron
                          ~              .8                                       rf no correcfrve
                   0
                   ifl
                          g                                                             actron
                                         M
                   §-
                                              '            all results reported

     Local                      Local                       to local supplrer                            Local
      files                     OffiCe                   rnadequate results wrth
                                                                                                        agency
                                                                                                 (may be communrty commrttee)




                          Technician                     on-the-spot reportrng                       Community
                          in the field                  to communrty author~tres                     authorities

                               ~                                                                       ~
                          surveillance                                                                 supply
WH096540                    agency                                                                     agency



                                                   33
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     In some circumstances, it may also be necessary to recommend remedial
action, such as emergency disinfection of the supply. Some recommendations
may require action not only by the supplier, but also by the surveillance agency.
For example, if there is severe faecal contamination of drinking-water, this cannot
be remedied in the short term, and it may be considered advisable for the
population to boil the water. Warning people of the need for this may then be the
responsibility of the health authorities (i.e. the surveillance agency). As a further
example, if the water supply is of good quality but not continuous, people are
forced to store the water in the home, where it may become contaminated; unless
a continuous supply can be established quickly, an educational programme on
household water storage may be recommended. This is again likely to be the
responsibility of the surveillance agency or another agency within the health
sector.
     The exchange of information between the surveillance and supply agencies
should not be limited to complaints about failures. The two agencies must
coordinate their activities to ensure regional prioritization, and this requires
effective communication and reporting strategy. Reports intended to assist in the
setting of regional priorities need not be frequent; annual reporting is likely to be
adequate, especially if the report is timed to coincide with the programming of
supply agency investments for the following year. Such reports should classifY
communities and systems in order of priority for intervention based on social and
public health criteria. Banding or scores assigned to each community may be used
for this purpose (see Chapter 5). Prioritization should not be based solely on
water quality, but should also take account of all parameters of drinking-water
supply service.


2 4.3 Information exchange within the surveillance agency
It is essential that the field worker or locallaboratoty maintains detailed files on
all water supplies in the area. Files should include the results of all inspections and
analyses in chronological order. They should be used in conjunction with the
inventory, which should include an outline plan of each system, together with
details of system components and the population served.
     At local level, information is most commonly stored on paper, with perhaps
one file per water supply. At regional and national levels, the need for greater data
analysis will increasingly justifY computerization, although this level of sophisti-
cation remains inappropriate at local level in many countries.
     The local water-surveillance office should report to each community author-
ity and the relevant supply agency as soon as possible after a field visit. The
information should also be passed on to regional authorities to allow follow-up if
recommendations for remedial action are not implemented; this may be less
urgent and can be done at less frequent intervals, e.g. weekly or monthly.
However, there must be a rapid means of reporting in case of emergency.



                                         34
                           2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




Regional centres may report to the national surveillance authority quarterly or
half-yearly.


2.4.4 Information exchange with consumers
The right of consumers to information on health-related parameters of the water
supplied to them for domestic purposes is fundamental. However, in many
communities, the simple right of access to information will not ensure that
individuals are aware of the quality of the water supplied to them; furthermore,
the probability of consuming unsafe water is relatively high. The agencies respon-
sible for monitoring should therefore develop strategies for disseminating the
health-related results they obtain.
     What information is reported to consumers will largely be decided on the
basis of the data produced. Nevertheless, raw data (such as the concentrations of
contaminants) should be accompanied by some type of interpretation whenever
possible, such as compliance or noncompliance with national standards, for the
benefit of nonspecialists. The dissemination of information on drinking-water
quality must be linked to recommendations for action (e.g. boiling) where
appropriate, to community participation in monitoring, and to public education
on water-quality issues.
     Where reporting incorporates recommendations for remedial action at local
level, it may be appropriate to employ pictorial report forms. In some pro-
grammes these have been printed alongside the field report forms. In the field, the
points that require attention are highlighted, e.g. by circling. The pictorial
summary is then torn off and given to the responsible person, together with a full
explanation of the actions recommended. Examples of pictorial forms are given in
Annex 2.
     The delivery of notifications may be difficult, especially in remote communi-
ties in developing countries, and methods of solving this problem must therefore
be found. Where notifications must be delivered by the monitoring agency itself
and distances are considerable, this may become expensive. It may then be more
cost-effective to use on-site testing equipment and for field staff to remain in
communities overnight. When such staff are adequately trained in the interpre-
tation of results and notification of findings, they can provide an immediate
report to the community before returning to their base or proceeding to the next
community. However, delayed reporting following sample analysis in a local or
regional laboratory remains the most common practice. Suitable means for for-
warding reports must then be used. Different means of communication will be
found to be appropriate, depending on those available, the urgency of taking
corrective action, and the feasibility of implementing the recommended remedial
action. Written notification, which may take several days to arrive, will often be
adequate, but if urgent action is warranted, e.g. notifying the population of the
need to boil its water, more rapid means of communication may be appropriate



                                        35
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




(telephone, telegram, radio, etc.). Rapid notification should always be followed
up by written confirmation.


2.4.5 Communication with local and national government
At national level, priorities should be set and disseminated, with recommenda-
tions, by means of an annual report. The report should be circulated to all
surveillance and supply agencies, the national planning authorities, and agencies
involved in coordination within the water-supply sector, e.g. ministries respon-
sible for local government, natural resources, health, and finance. Depending on
local circumstances, it may be sent to external support agencies as well, and some
nongovernmental organizations may also be recipients. Information exchange
with national planning authorities may provide a means of establishing a mutu-
ally supportive relationship berween surveillance and supply agencies.
     Local government should ensure that the agency that supplies drinking-water
to the area complies with the surveillance legislation and regulations. Annual
reports should be made available which should include information on all
breaches of standards and any exemptions or permitted deviations of water
quality from national standards. Local government should also actively promote
surveillance within the area that it administers, and encourage both producers
and consumers to regard surveillance as a positive means of protecting the quality
of the water supply.


2.4.6 Communication linkage between surveillance and
      remedial action
Once routine water-supply surveillance activities are established, the links be-
rween remedial measures and surveillance should be institutionalized. The most
important activities, which should be carried out in the following sequence, are:
•   The regional agency responsible for water-supply surveillance prepares an
    annual plan and fixes a target number of water supplies to be inspected,
    sampled, and analysed on the basis of inventories.
    Action is coordinated with the community. Sanitary technicians carry out
    sanitary inspections with community representatives/volunteers. Water
    samples are analysed on site or transported to a laboratory for analysis.
•   The results of the sanitary inspection and water-quality analysis are combined
    and communicated to the community during the visit if analysis is under-
    taken on site, or forwarded as soon as possible if samples are processed in a
    laboratory. In the latter case, the results of the sanitary inspection can be
    communicated during the visit. The report(s) should indicate the risks iden-
    tified and the points requiring attention.
•   A monthly consolidated report is prepared, covering all points of risk for each
    facility and the results of analyses.

                                        36
                           2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




•   The monthly report is transmitted to the regional coordinator, who ranks the
    relative urgency of action for each facility (see also Chapter 5) and identifies
    high priorities for remedial action and for hygiene education.
•   An urgent action list is sent by the regional coordinator to the appropriate
    authority for remedial action and to the sanitary technician responsible for
    monitoring such action.
•   Remedial action is taken by the appropriate authority.
•   The sanitary technician monitors the remedial action with the community.
    On completion, he or she repeats the inspection and analysis with the
    community and communicates the results to the regional coordinator, to-
    gether with a summary of the remedial work undertaken.
•   The coordinator compiles an annual summary of the remedial work under-
    taken and improvements achieved for review with the supply authorities and
    by senior staff of the surveillance agency. The report highlights the most
    common shortcomings, and is used as a basis for identifying the changes in
    strategy that the supply agency is required to make.
•   An annual summary of priorities for hygiene education is compiled by the
    regional coordinator. A strategy for activities during the following year is
    agreed with the authority responsible for hygiene education, and the work-
    plan is communicated to the sanitary technicians responsible for surveillance.
•   The sanitary technician monitors the hygiene education activities with the
    community. On completion, he or she evaluates improvements with the
    community and communicates the results to the regional coordinator, to-
    gether with a summary of the educational activities undertaken.
•   The common shortcomings identified in the annual report are addressed in
    the supply/construction agencies' annual plans and resources allocated to
    training, rehabilitation, etc., as appropriate.


2.4. 7 Use of computers
Data analysis at national level clearly requires the management of large volumes
of data, which is a strong argument for computerization. The national agency
receives the greatest quantity of data, all of which must be stored, and must also
be able to undertake comprehensive data analysis to assist in the setting of
priorities at national level.
     Where computers are used for data management at national level, it may also
be advantageous to extend computerization to the regional centres if they handle
sufficient data to warrant it. This has the additional advantage of decentralizing
the requirement for data input and reducing the total number of transcriptions,
especially if the data are delivered from regional to national centres in computer-
ized form, thereby reducing the chances of error.
    At regional level, computerization provides an efficient means of storing
information, and possibly also for comparing results with compliance criteria,
such as national standards or interim goals agreed with the supplier. The type of

                                        37
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




communication to be sent to the water supplier will vary according to the nature
of the noncompliance, and a computer may also be used to produce appropriate
standard letters.
     Computerization should not be seen as a universal solution to all problems.
As with any other data-management system, the results obtained will be only as
good as the data received, and the need for effective data flow and efficient data
input is paramount.


2.5 Support structure
Ideally, a special section should be established within the responsible agency to
oversee and implement activities related to the surveillance programme. This
requires a laboratory network, offices, transport, financial support, and adequate
staffing.


2.5.1 Laboratory network
The laboratory network will vary widely according to a number of criteria. For
water-supply surveillance laboratories, the parameters to be measured should be
those known to be related to health together with those that may ca~,tse water to
be rejected by consumers (see section 1.3.1). A laboratory infrastructure may
already exist and may include hospital laboratories in the case of surveillance and
laboratories at suppliers' water-treatment plants.
     In principle, all analyses should be undertaken in a laboratory as close as
possible to the site of sampling, taking into account constraints such as staffing
and equipment, both of which are largely related to the number of samples
analysed and the required frequency of analysis. Prompt analysis minimizes
deterioration in sample quality during transport (this is especially important for
microbiological samples) and close proximity of the laboratory reduces the costs
associated with sample transport.
     The range of analyses conducted, the number of samples, and the frequency
of sampling may need to be increased progressively with time. The strategy may
initially require analysis only of thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms, chlorine re-
sidual, and turbidity, before it is expanded to incorporate regional laboratories
with a limited analytical range. For quality-control purposes, the range and
frequency of analyses may be specified in national standards, but should be
increased if conditions deteriorate or if there is any reason to suspect that service
quality may be endangered.
     A structure based on a central laboratory, a number of regional laboratories,
and simple district-level laboratories will almost always be necessary. It may be
supplemented by providing field staff with portable equipment for on-site meas-
urement of critical parameters, thus ensuring greater decentralization and more
effective coverage (see pp. 65-66).



                                         38
                           2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




     A central laboratory should be established to undertake a full range of
physical, chemical, and microbiological tests. Such laboratories are sometimes
referred to as "reference laboratories", although they may not actually perform a
reference function. The central laboratory should provide training for analytical
staff at all levels, including staff using on-site testing equipment. It should also
provide full quality assurance of its own analyses and external quality control
for subsidiary laboratories. In addition, it should undertake certain more so-
phisticated analyses that cannot be decentralized because of the high capital
cost of the equipment necessary. These may include, for example, analyses for
heavy metals by atomic absorption spectroscopy. and for pesticides by gas
chromatography.
     Regional laboratories should be able to undertake a moderate range of
analyses. They should also provide a support service to remote areas, making
culture media and consumables available to staff conducting a limited number of
tests using on-site or office-based testing equipment.
     Examples of the initial and final laboratory service infrastructure for water-
quality analysis are shown in Fig. 2.6.


2.5.2 Transport
The preferred means of transport will vary widely depending on the terrain,
climatological conditions, and local custom; the possibilities include four-wheel-
drive vehicles, pack animals, canoes, bicycles, and motorcycles, in addition to
walking (which is always used to some extent). Factors to be taken into account
in choosing a means of transport include the need to send samples to the
laboratory as quickly as possible (see section 4.1.4), the adequacy of the various
forms of transport for the conditions prevailing at the time of surveillance, and
price, operating and maintenance costs, and expected useful working life of the
transport.
     It has been common practice to rely on four-wheel-drive vehicles in carrying
out surveillance and quality-control activities in many countries. In some areas,
motorcycles have proved particularly successful; they are generally capable of
carrying both portable testing equipment and teaching materials, are a far cheaper
alternative, and can transport field staff rapidly. They are also less likely to be
requisitioned for other purposes.


2.5.3 Financial support
Substantial support for surveillance is generally provided by centralized institu-
tions, such as regional or national governments, although they do not cover
the total cost. Considerable contributions (which will often be mainly in kind)
may also be made by the community itself. Costs may also be reduced by a
variety of means, and the water-supply agency should operate on a cost-recovery
basis.

                                        39
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




 Fig. 2.6 Examples of laboratory service infrastructure



                                                      Analytical capac1ty


                        Central
                      laboratory                      Bactenological, inorganic,
                                                      and organoleptic tests


                        Reg1onal
                                                  2. E colt/ thermotolerant (faecal)
                      laboratones                     coliforms and l1m1ted inorganic
                                                      and organoleptic tests

                 District laboratones            3. E coli I thermotolerant (faecal)
                      or field k1ts                 col1forms and chlonne
                                                    residual tests

    (a) Initial structure




                                                      Analyt1cal capac1ty


                        Central                       Bactenological, Inorganic,
                      laboratory                      organ1c, organoleptic, and
                                                      radioactiVIty tests
                                                  2 Bactenological, 1norgan1c,
                                                    and organoleptic tests
                                                  3   E colt/ thermotolerant (faecal)
                 Area health-centre                   col1forms and limited 1norgan1c
                    laboratones                       and organoleptiC tests

              Community health-centre             4. E. colt/ thermotolerant (faecal)
               laboratones or field k1ts             col1forms. turbidity, and
                                                     chlonne residual tests

(b) Final structure                                                                WHO 96541




      The role and importance of community participation were described in
section 1.6. Involving the community in decisions about the establishment of a
surveillance programme can be used to create a sense of ownership and a willing-
ness to share some of the costs of surveillance, maintenance, and remedial actions.
One approach is to use existing structures in the community, such as water
committees, to obtain contributions and to undertake simple maintenance.
      A number of strategies may be adopted for minimizing the costs of surveil-
lance. The highest costs are usually those associated with staff and transport, and
it is therefore important to concentrate on these. Repeat journeys for resampling
or for the delivery of reports to community authorities (essential if there is no

                                           40
                            2 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE




suitable postal service or equivalent) are very expensive, and every effort should be
made to reduce the need for them. In regions with remote water supplies, this can
often be done by using on-site testing equipment, particularly if it is possible for
field workers to stay overnight in communities and deliver the results the next
morning. If this strategy is adopted, it is often appropriate for field staff to be
responsible for health and hygiene education as well as surveillance activities.


2.5.4 Staffing
Staffing requirements for servicing a water-supply surveillance programme vary
widely, and there is no generally applicable method of determining the number
of staff needed for a given population or for a given number of water supplies.
The following factors should be borne in mind when staff requirements are
estimated:
•   Travel to and from water supplies is a major problem for staff undertaking
    fieldwork (sampling, sanitary inspection, liaison with communities); realistic
    estimates of travel time should therefore be made at an early stage, and
    confirmed times entered on the inventory for planning purposes. In addition,
    seasonal factors such as monsoons may constrain travel at certain times and
    thus reduce the time available for the work.
    Decentralization of analysis and/or on-site testing becomes more attractive as
    travel times increase and where water supplies are more widely dispersed.
•   The distribution of the workload between point sources, nuclear communi-
    ties, and piped water supplies will influence the rate at which work is
    completed.
•   The type of supply will also influence the time required, e.g. the sanitary
    inspection and on-site analysis take an hour in the case of a dug well, while
    inspection of a piped supply with a source several kilometres away, even for
    a small community, is likely to take a whole day.
•   Greater community involvement will lead to more efficient and effective
    surveillance, either because it is supported by, and undertaken with, the
    community or because less frequent visits by the sanitary inspector are
    necessary.
•   Field workers often play an educational role, e.g. in increasing awareness of
    the health implications of water supply.
   Possible responsibilities of surveillance staff at various levels are suggested in
Annex 3.




                                         41
3.
Surveys



3.1 Nature and scope of community surveys
A community survey is an evaluation of all the factors and resources (physical and
human) that affect the water-supply service, sanitation, and environmental health
of a community. An example of a report form for a community survey is shown
in Fig. 3.1; the form will vary with location, and should take account of local
conditions.
     At the beginning of surveillance programmes, and subsequently at intervals
less frequent than those specified (by the surveillance agency) for sanitary inspec-
tion, a community survey is required as the foundation of a comprehensive
database. The complete community survey should be conducted by the local
surveillance agency office (or the area authority in small countries) and should
include the following four components:
1. Basic data on water-supply and sanitation facilities with which to update the
   inventories. Basic inventories have been described in section 2.3.1, and an
   example of an inventory is shown in Fig. 2.2 on p. 27. The water-supply data
   (and, in some circumstances, sanitation data) are ideally the responsibility of
   the water-supply agency; the surveillance agency's field officer should only
   have to confirm the information. The reality in many countries, however, is
   that a variety of agencies are involved in water-supply construction, with the
   result that inventories are often incomplete. The surveillance agency may
   therefore have to be involved in preparing the inventory.
2. Sanitary inspection (comprising sanitary inspection and water-quality analy-
   sis). Sanitary inspection may be conducted by both the water-supply agency
   and the surveillance agency; the information they generate is shared.
3. A quantitative diagnostic summary of the five key water-supply service indica-
   tors (quality, quantity, coverage, continuity, and cost).
4. Hygiene survey. Hygiene surveys are, ideally, the surveillance agency's
   responsibility.
    The quantitative diagnostic summary of water-supply service indicators
should be reported to the regional and/or national agency for strategic planning
purposes. Figure 3.1 shows a suitable report form. The indicators should be
entered into a national database and used to allocate resources for water-supply
development and improvement on the basis of priority needs.

                                        42
                                                                                            3 SURVEYS




  Fig. 3. 1 Example of a community survey form


District ......                                          Village ..... .
Date of VISit ..                                         (Year) Code No ..
Source type                                              System type: U open/closed
                                                                      ':' plped/unpiped

Population                                               Coverage
Number of households ..
                                                            no. standpipes and taps x 100%
Number of standpipes
                                                                       no households
Number of house connections (taps)
School?                   School tap?                                               %

Flow data                                                Quantity supplied

                                                             l1tres per second delivered x 86 400
Flow entering a source            l1tres per second
                                                                               population

Overflow(s).                      litres per second                   X 86 400

Flow delivered to taps             litres per second                   l1tres per person per day

System functioning                                       Continuity
Water entering system on day of 1nspect1on?

DYes       Cl No
Proportion of taps operating (t1ck as appropnate)
    Tap 1            Tap 2              Tap 3
D Yes [J No        D Yes D No        D Yes D No

Supply all day?    DYes    D No                          Overall = total 'yes' x 100% =
Supply all year?   D Yes    D No                                           6

                                                         Cost
How many households pay a tanff?
Percentage of household paymg ....                 %     Monthly tanff

                                                         Quality
Thermotolerant (faecal) col1form count per 100 ml        Bactenolog1cal qual1ty
Source count ...                          .... /100 ml   Faecal col1form grade AB·C.D
Highest count 1n distribution                /100 ml
Sanitary mspect1on (see accompany1ng sheet)              Sanitary hazard score

Remedial action priority     D Low      D Intermediate      D Urgent




Inspector                                                S1gnature

                                                  43
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




    In Fig. 3.1, the first indicator calculated is coverage, which is logical since
there is little point in embarking on sanitary inspections until basic infrastructure
has been established in a significant proportion of communities. It is also neces-
sary to demonstrate that substantial water-supply coverage has been achieved
both in individual communities and in a majority of communities in the district
under consideration.


3.2 Sanitary inspections
A sanitary inspection is an on-site inspection and evaluation by qualified indi-
viduals of all conditions, devices, and practices in the water-supply system that
pose an actual or potential danger to the health and well-being of the consumer.
It is a fact-finding activity that should identify system deficiencies-not only
sources of actual contamination but also inadequacies and lack of integrity in the
system that could lead to contamination.
     In small communities, where official visits by the surveillance officer are
infrequent, it is essential that responsible community members both assist the
official in making the survey and learn how to conduct the survey independently.
They should sign a report and agree to act on the recommendations where this is
feasible (see Chapter 6).
     The two principal activities are sanitary inspection and water-quality analysis.
It has been suggested that sanitary inspection should take priority over analysis,
but the two should be done together wherever possible. They are complementary
activities; inspection identifies potential hazards, while analysis indicates whether
contamination is occurring and, if so, its intensity.
     A sanitary inspection is indispensable for the adequate interpretation of
laboratory results. No analytical, bacteriological, or chemical survey, however
carefully carried out, is a substitute for comprehensive knowledge of conditions at
the water source and within the distribution system, the adequacy of water
treatment, and the qualifications and performance of the operators. Samples
represent conditions at a single point in time and-even when there is frequent
sampling and analysis-the results are reported after contamination has occurred,
especially in systems without long-term storage. Microbiological contamination
is often sporadic and may not be revealed by occasional sampling.


3.3 Sanitary inspection reports
The sanitary inspection report is that part of the survey based on the on-site
inspection of the water sources (and piped supply systems where appropriate), i.e.
a field survey; it therefore provides a direct method of identifying all the hazards
that are potential and actual causes of contamination of the supply. It is con-
cerned with the physical structure of the supply, its operation, and external
environmental factors. The hazards recorded during inspection are often tangible



                                         44
                                                                        3 SURVEYS




and observable, and may be used together with analytical data to derive a risk
assessment.
    Sanitary inspections thus provide essential information about immediate and
ongoing possible hazards associated with a community water supply, even in the
absence of microbiological or chemical evidence of contamination. In addition,
inspection of supplies over a period of years provides a longer-term perspective
and assists in the identification and minimization of risks caused by progressive
deterioration in any aspect of the supply.


3.3.1 Functions of sanitary inspection report forms
Inspection forms should provide a simple and rapid means of assessing and
identifying hazards associated with water-supply systems. Wherever sanitary in-
spections are carried out, there will inevitably be a variety of systems to consider,
and a decision must then be made on whether to attempt to produce a single
inspection form that deals with all types of system or to produce a series of forms,
each dealing with a different rype. Some of the information that it may be useful
to include on one inspection form may already have been collected for inventory
purposes. Again, a decision must be made on how much of this kind of detail it
is appropriate to include.
     The inspection form should include at least a checklist of the components of
the water supply from source to distribution and incorporate all the potential
points where hazards may be introduced. Any problems identified during the
inspection should be highlighted so that a report may be provided directly to the
community and copies forwarded to both supply agency and health authority.
     The specific functions of the sanitary inspection report are to:
         identify potential sources and points of contamination of the water
         supply;
         quantify the hazard (hazard score) attributable to the sources and supply;
         provide a clear, graphical means of explaining the hazards to the opera-
         tor/user;
         provide clear guidance as to the remedial action required to protect and
         improve the supply;
         provide the raw data for use in systematic, strategic planning for
         improvement.
     The sanitary inspection report may be considered as an integral part of a
community survey as defined in section 3.1. It should therefore not be restricted
to factors that may cause problems with water qualiry, but should also take into
account other service indicators, e.g. coverage, cost, continuity, and quantity.
This is particularly important for supply agencies that may wish to give special
consideration to such factors from the point of view of operation and mainte-
nance. It should be possible to determine an overall measure of the sanitary state
of the supply based on the checklist, and this hazard or risk score may be used in



                                         45
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




deciding priorities for remedial action by the community or by whichever agency
is best able to intervene and make improvements.


3.3.2 Design of sanitary inspection report forms
The design, evaluation, and refinement of sanitary inspection forms are among
the most important aspects of developing a surveillance or quality-control
programme. Two approaches are possible-the use of pictures and brief check-
lists, or the use of more detailed checklists with explanatory notes. Either may be
used successfully. However, in some countries where the level of training of
environmental health inspectors or sanitary technicians may not be very high, the
use of pictorial inspection forms may be the most effective method, and is
therefore considered here.
      Ideally, forms should be designed in such a way that the community or owner
of the supply can either conduct the survey or be given a summary of the
problems identified before the departure of the inspector. This means that any
actions required at local level can be agreed and implementation can be started
immediately. Where actions are required by others, e.g. water-supply or health
agencies, the community should also be informed of the recommendations that
will be made. Copies of the full sanitary survey should be sent to all relevant
authorities, and this is facilitated by well designed inspection forms, for example
with duplicate or triplicate sheets and "tear-off" slips for recommended actions.
      A series of model inspection report forms is presented in Annex 2. With one
exception, these are in double-page format and include illustrations of a range of
water supplies in a recognizable setting; potential hazards are identified and
numbered. The forms include details of the type of facility, the supply, the date
of the sanitary inspection visit, and so on. The checklist of 10 or more points
allows a hazard score to be assigned based on the total number of hazards
identified.
      In some countries it may be necessary to consider hazards other than those
illustrated in Annex 2, and these should also be included in the checklist. Sanitary
inspection forms should be designed to match local circumstances; they should be
suitable for the inspectors to use, and the recipients of the information should
be able to understand and act on them. Any pictures that are included must be
carefully drawn to reflect the cultures and situations that they are designed to
depict. The range of report forms given in Annex 2 covers most of the main types
of small water-supply installations. Nevertheless, the list is not exhaustive, and
local variations in design and in cultural habits may have a profound impact on
the design of such forms.
      The principle on which the design of sanitary inspection report forms is
based is that every fault that may reduce the quality of the supply should be listed
and checked during the sanitary inspection. Each fault represents a sanitary
hazard. Every additional fault increases the probability that contamination will
occur; the number of hazards may therefore be totalled to provide an additive

                                        46
                                                                         3 SURVEYS




sanitary risk score, but this implies an equal weighting of all the risks. However,
it is most unlikely that such equal weighting will be correct and that the score will
be directly proportional to the intensity of the resulting contamination. Thus it
is important to incorporate differential weighting for local conditions that per-
mits a better interpretation of the information and promotes remedial action.


3.4 Carrying out sanitary inspections
Staff responsible for field sanitary inspection work should always try to notifY the
local community representatiz,es in advance ofthe visit, especially where the presence
of the latter is required in order to obtain access to certain points in the supply
system and where the assistance of community members in conducting the
inspection is needed.
     On arrival in the community, the surveillance officer must verifY basic data
with community representatives, as indicated in Chapter 2 (Fig. 2.2). Any records
that the community keeps, for example of tariffs, should be examined and the
information noted, including the amount charged and the number of households
paymg.
     Before visiting the community, the surveillance officer may have prior knowl-
edge of the type and number of supplies, sources, and taps. This should be
checked against local records and maps held by the local health post or health
centre, for example. If no map is available, an attempt should be made to prepare
at least a sketch map of the supply or sources.
     Much of the information required for the investigation of drinking-water
supply services will be obtained by interviewing community members; this is
especially important when visiting households to assess the continuity of service.
Wherever possible, the surveillance officer should verifY any information so
obtained by direct observation during the field survey.
     While it may appear logical for inspection and sampling to begin at the
source of piped supply and to progress through the system with the flow of water,
the converse is actually the case. Working against the flow (i.e. beginning with the
distribution network and progressing up through the system) makes it less likely
that any samples taken will have been accidentally contaminated by the sampler
earlier in the system, e.g. when opening little-used lids of reservoirs or protected
spnng sources.
     The surveillance officer should complete the sanitary inspection report on site
together with the community representatives. Opportunities to point out prob-
lems or defects in the field to community members, their representatives, or the
system caretaker or operator should be taken whenever possible. It may also be
appropriate to undertake simple repairs, e.g. replacement of washers in public
taps, at the same time.
     Mter completing the sanitary inspection, the survey officer should circle each
of the points of risk on the diagram, preferably in red ink. The diagram (see
Annex 2) should be separated from the inspection report form and given to a

                                         47
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




member of the water committee or community representative. Before leaving the
community, the surveillance officer should discuss, agree, and schedule any
follow-up actions and indicate the date of the next survey.
     The survey officer carrying out the sanitary survey should record whether or
not sampling or analysis will be undertaken. Labour and hence time can some-
times be saved by carrying out the analysis in the field at the same time as the
inspection; elsewhere, water analysis may be part of follow-up, with samples
transported to a laboratory for testing.
     Some countries have introduced special postcards the community can use to
report serious operational or remedial requirements; these are posted to the
agency responsible for operation and maintenance, which then makes an appro-
priate response and provides the necessary technical support.
     The procedural steps for carrying out a sanitary survey are summarized in
Fig. 3.2.


3.5 Timing and frequency of sanitary inspections
Sanitary inspections should be undertaken on a regular basis, ideally at the
frequencies indicated in Table 3.1.


3.5.1 New sources
One of the most important surveys is that undertaken when new sources of water
are being developed. This survey should provide sufficient information to indi-
cate the suitability of the source and the amount of treatment required before the
water can be considered suitable for human consumption. When alternative
water sources are under consideration, each should be surveyed. Physical, bacte-
riological, and chemical analyses should be carried out during catchment surveys
when new water sources are explored to assess potential new water supplies.
Chemical and bacteriological analyses should also be done when hydro-
geographical surveys are carried out. The guiding principle is that no new public
water supply should be appro11ed without a sanitary inspection.
     Surface-water sources may be extremely difficult to survey adequately, par-
ticularly in remote rural areas and where land-use patterns are changing rapidly.
Not only may there be daily and seasonal changes in flow to consider but, in
addition, variations in physical, chemical, and microbiological characteristics
necessitate analysis throughout the year to take account of the effect of changes in
rainfall patterns.


3.5.2 Routine surveys of existing supplies
Although it is unrealistic in most instances to expect the surveillance agency to
devote more than 1 or 2 days per system each year to a survey, this can hardly be

                                        48
                                                                3 SURVEYS




Fig. 3.2 Procedural steps for carrying out a sanitary survey


     Sanitary surveys                     ,.      Water samples
                                                   to laboratory



             !                                          !
                                                  Thermotolerant
   San1tary inspections
                                                 coliform analys1s



              I
           results
                                                         I
                                                      results



             !
      Coordinator:
   1. Identifies risk source
                               11(
   2. Grades faecal
      contammat1on



             !
   Comb1ned evaluation
      w1th supplier



             !
    Pnont1ze and select
      urgent actions



             ~
     Remedial action



             ~
     Follow-up survey



             ~                 "'
 Evaluate results of 1mpact
      of rehabilitation
                               ~
                               a
                               §i




                                     49
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 3. 1 Suggested minimum annual frequency of sanitary
           inspections
Source and mode of supply                 Communitya              Water-supply           Surveillance
                                                                    agencyb                agencyauc

Dug well (w1thout w1ndlass)                       6                                              1d
Dug well (w1th Windlass)                          6                                              1d
Dug well w1th hand-pump                           4                                              1d
Shallow and deep tubewell w1th                    4                                              1d
hand-pump
Ra1nwater catchment                               4                                              1d
Grav1ty spnng                                     4                                              1d
P1ped supply groundwater
sources (spnngs and wells), w1th
and Without chlonnat1on
Treated surface source of p1ped
supply, w1th chlonnat1on
  <5000 population                               12                       1
  5000-20 000 population                                                  2
D1str1but1on system of p1ped                                             12
supply"

" For fam1ly-owned fac111l1es (e g dug wells w1th or Without hand-pumps), the fam1ly IS responsible for
   mspect1ons, w1th support from the surveillance agency
" All new sources should be Inspected before commiSSIOning
- Under emergency cond1t1ons, such as onset of ep1dem1c d1seases. mspect1on should take place
   1mmed1ately
•' Where 1! IS 1mpract1cal to Inspect all such facilitieS, a stat1sl1cally S1gn1f1cant sample should be
   Inspected
" Public stand posts are cleaned by the commun1ty 1f the population IS less than 5000 The water-
   supply agency ma1nta1ns the dlstnbut1on system and tapstands 1f the population IS between 5000
   and 20000



considered adequate. Thus, sanitary surveys should also be undertaken periodi-
cally by water-supply agency staff as well as by the surveillance agency.
     Traditionally, the frequency of inspection and analyses has been based on
population size. For community supplies, it is necessary to involve community
members, especially where there is no official water-supply agency. The diversity
of water-supply facilities and administrative arrangements makes it difficult to
provide other than general guidelines for the frequency of these surveys, as
suggested in Table 3.1. However, it is important to note that these suggested
frequencies are minimum values. It is also vital that any community report which
suggests that serious risks exist should be officially logged and acknowledged, and
that follow-up action is taken by the surveillance agency.




                                                  50
4.
Water sampling and analysis




Ideally, a laboratory infrastructure should be established which will enable all
samples to be returned to a central or regional laboratory within a few hours of
being taken. However, this depends on the availability of a good road system and
of reliable motorized transport for all sampling officers, and these are not available
in many countries. Thus, although it may be possible to establish well-equipped
central and even regional laboratories for water analysis, at the provincial and
district levels it may be necessary to rely on a relatively small number of simple
tests. As noted in Chapter I, this approach is sometimes called critical-parameter
water testing.
     The most important factor to take into account is that, in most communities,
the principal risk to human health derives from faecal contamination. In some
countries there may also be hazards associated with specific chemical contami-
nants such as fluoride or arsenic, but the levels of these substances are unlikely to
change significantly with time. Thus, if a full range of chemical analyses is
undertaken on new water sources and repeated thereafter at fairly long intervals,
chemical contaminants are unlikely to present an unrecognized hazard. In con-
trast, the potential for faecal contamination in untreated or inadequately treated
community supplies is always present. The minimum level of analysis should
therefore include testing for indicators of faecal pollution (thermotolerant (faecal)
coliforms), turbidity, and chlorine residual and pH (if the water is disinfected
with chlorine).
     Even in developing countries poorly served by roads and transportation, it is
usually possible to devise a rational sampling and analytical strategy. This should
incorporate carefully selected critical-parameter tests in remote (usually rural)
locations using simple methods and portable water-testing equipment (see pp.
65-66) where appropriate. Wherever possible the community should be involved
in the sampling process. Where water is disinfected, primary health workers,
schoolteachers, and sometimes community members can be trained to carry out
simple chlorine residual testing. The same people could also collect samples for
physicochemical analysis and arrange for their delivery to the regional laboratory.
The use of community members in this way has significant implications for
training and supervision but would be one way of ensuring more complete
surveillance coverage.

                                         51
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




4.1 Sampling
The guidelines provided here take into account experience in surveillance
programmes in remote, typically rural, areas and in periurban communities.
More general advice on sampling is given in Volume 1 and in ISO standards (see
the Bibliography).


4.1.1 Location of sampling points
One objective of surveillance is to assess the quality of the water supplied by the
supply agency and of that at the point of use, so that samples of both should be
taken. Any significant difference between the two has important implications for
remedial strategies.
    Samples must be taken from locations that are representative of the water
source, treatment plant, storage facilities, distribution network, points at which
water is delivered to the consumer, and points of use. In selecting sampling
points, each locality should be considered individually; however, the following
general criteria are usually applicable:
•   Sampling points should be selected such that the samples taken are represen-
    tative of the different sources from which water is obtained by the public or
    enters the system.
•   These points should include those that yield samples representative of the
    conditions at the most unfavourable sources or places in the supply system,
    particularly points of possible contamination such as unprotected sources,
    loops, reservoirs, low-pressure zones, ends of the system, etc.
•   Sampling points should be uniformly distributed throughout a piped distri-
    bution system, taking population distribution into account; the number of
    sampling points should be proportional to the number of links or branches.
•   The points chosen should generally yield samples that are representative of
    the system as a whole and of its main components.
•   Sampling points should be located in such a way that water can be sampled
    from reserve tanks and reservoirs, etc.
•   In systems with more than one water source, the locations of the sampling
    points should take account of the number of inhabitants served by each
    source.
•   There should be at least one sampling point directly after the dean-water
    outlet from each treatment plant.
     Sampling sites in a piped distribution network may be classified as:
         fixed and agreed with the supply agency;
     -   fixed, but not agreed with the supply agency; or
     -   random or variable.
     Each type of sampling site has certain advantages and disadvantages. Fixed
sites agreed with the supplier are essential when legal action is to be used as a

                                        52
                                                4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




means of ensuring improvement; otherwise, the supply agency may object to a
sample result on the grounds that water quality may have deteriorated in the
household, beyond the area of responsibility of the supplier. Nevertheless, fixed
sample points are rare or unknown in some countries.
    Fixed sites that are not necessarily recognized by the supply agency are used
frequently in investigations, including surveillance. They are especially useful
when results have to be compared over time, but they limit the possibility of
identifying local problems such as cross-connections and contamination from
leaking distribution networks.
    Sampling regimes using variable or random sites have the advantage of being
more likely to detect local problems but are less useful for analysing changes over
time.


4.1.2 Sampling frequency
The most important tests used in water-quality surveillance or quality control in
small communities are those for microbiological quality (by the measurement of
indicator bacteria) and turbidity, and for free chlorine residual and pH where
chlorination is used. These tests should be carried out whenever a sample is taken,
regardless of how many other physical or chemical variables are to be measured.
The recommended minimum frequencies for these critical measurements in
unpiped water supplies are summarized in Table 4.1 and minimum sample
numbers for piped drinking-water in the distribution system are shown in Table
4.2.


4.1.3 Sampling methods for microbiological analysis
Detailed methods for sampling for microbiological analysis are given in Annex 4.
All samples should be accompanied by an appropriate collection form; a model
sample collection form is illustrated in Fig. 4.1.


4.1.4 Storage of samples for microbiological analysis
Although recommendations vary, the time between sample collection and analy-
sis should, in general, not exceed 6 hours, and 24 hours is considered the absolute
maximum. It is assumed that the samples are immediately placed in a lightproof
insulated box containing melting ice or ice-packs with water to ensure rapid
cooling. If ice is not available, the transportation time must not exceed 2 hours.
It is imperative that samples are kept in the dark and that cooling is rapid. If these
conditions are not met, the samples should be discarded. When water that
contains or may contain even traces of chlorine is sampled, the chlorine must be
inactivated. If it is not, microbes may be killed during transit and an erroneous
result will be obtained. The bottles in which the samples are placed should
therefore contain sodium thiosulfate to neutralize any chlorine present, as de-

                                         53
       Table 4.1 Minimum frequency of sampling and analysis of unpiped water supplies                                                            G)
                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                 0
       Source and mode of supply                 Minimum frequency of sampling and analysis                    Remarks                           m
                                                                                                                                                 !:::
                                                                                                                                                 z
                                         Bacteriological                  Physical/chemical                                                      m
                                                                                                                                                 (f)
                                                                                                                                                 ""Tl
       Open wells for community supply   San1tary protect1on measures,    Once initially for commun1ty wells   Pollution usually expected to     0
                                                                                                                                                 ::0
                                         bactenolog1cal test1ng only if                                        occur                             0
                                         Situation demands                                                                                       ::0
                                                                                                                                                 z
                                                                                                                                                 7'
       Covered dug wells and shallow     San1tary protection measures,    Once 1n1t1ally, thereafter as        S1tuat1ons requ1r1ng test1ng
                                                                                                                                                 z
       tubewells w1th hand-pumps         bactenolog1cal testing only 1f   s1tuat,on demands                    change in env1ronmental           G)
                                         Situation demands                                                     cond1t1ons, outbreak of           ~
                                                                                                                                                 )>
                                                                                                               waterborne d1sease, or increase   -1
                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                               1n 1nc1dence of waterborne        ::0
                                                                                                               d1seases                          0
                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                 )>
(J1    Deep tubewells w1th hand-pumps    Once 1n1t1ally, thereafter as    Once Initially, thereafter as        S1tuat1ons requ1nng test1ng       r
-!>-
                                         s1tuat1on demands                s1tuat1on demands                    change 1n environmental           =i
                                                                                                                                                 -<
                                                                                                               cond1t1ons, outbreak of
                                                                                                               waterborne d1sease, or increase
                                                                                                               ·In ·Incidence of waterborne
                                                                                                               d1seases
       Protected spnngs                  Once Initially, thereafter as    Per1od1cally for res1dual chlorine   S1tuat1ons requ1r1ng test1ng
                                         s1tuat1on demands                1f water IS chlorinated              change 1n environmental
                                                                                                               conditions, outbreak of
                                                                                                               waterborne disease, or Increase
                                                                                                               in 1nc1dence of waterborne
                                                                                                               d1seases
       Commun1ty rainwater collection    San1tary protect1on measures,    Not needed
       systems                           bactenolog1cal testing only 1f
                                         s1tuat1on demands
                                                    4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




Fig. 4. 1 Model sample collection form



                                                                     SAMPLE DATA
                        WATER-QUALITY
                          CONTROL
                         PROGRAMME                      Locality _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                        Sample site _ _ _ _ _ __
 [Name of body responsible ...                     .]    Place _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                        Source _ _ _ _ _ _ __
 SAMPLING AND BACTERIOLOGICAL ANALYSIS                  Residual chlonne
 Sampling data:                                          Date of sampling _ _ _ __
 Locality _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                    T1me of sampling
 Samples1te _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                    Sender _ _ _ _ _ _ __
 Place _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __



                                                                  \
 Source _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
 Sender _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
 Date collected _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                Sect1on detached and stuck
 T1me collected                                                 to the sample bottle
 Date of analysis
 T1me of analys1s
 Residual chlorine _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ mg/lltre                 Analyt1cal results entered by
 Results·                                                     laboratory, copies of this sect1on
                                                              sent by laboratory to local
 TOTAL COLI FORMS                _ _ _ _ /100ml               surveillance agency or water-
 FAECAL COLIFORMS .              _ _ _ _ /100ml               supply agency and person
                                                              responsible for sampling
 (OTHER)

 Laboratory Sample No. _ _ _ _ _ __

 WATER BACTERIOLOGICALLY
        GOOD- BAD

 ACTION TAKEN




                                                        ""'
                     ~                  (signed)
                                                        a
L_-----------------~~




                                              55
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




              Table 4.2 Minimum sample numbers for
                        piped drinking-water in the
                        distribution system
              Population served               No. of monthly samples

              <5000
              5000-1 00 000             1 per 5000 population
              >100000                   1 per 10000 population. plus 10
                                          additional samples




scribed in Annex 4. The box used to carry samples (see Fig. 4.2) should be cleaned
and disinfected after each use to avoid contaminating the surfaces of the bottles
and the sampler's hands.


4 1.5 Sampling methods for physicochemical analysis
Results of physicochemical analysis are of no value if the samples tested are not
properly collected and stored. This has important consequences for sampling
regimes, sampling procedures, and methods of sample preservation and storage.
In general, the time between sampling and analysis should be kept to a minimum.
Storage in glass or polyethylene bottles at a low temperature (e.g. 4 °C) in the dark
is recommended. Sample bottles must be clean but need not be sterile. Special
preservatives may be required for some analytes. Residual chlorine, pH, and
turbidity should be tested immediately after sampling as they will change during
storage and transport.


4.2 Bacteriological analysis
The principal risk associated with water in small-community supplies is that of
infectious disease related to faecal contamination. Hence, as described in Chapter
1, the microbiological examination of drinking-water emphasizes assessment of
the hygienic quality of the supply. This requires the isolation and enumeration of
organisms that indicate the presence of faecal contamination. In certain circum-
stances, the same indicator organisms may also be used to assess the efficiency of
drinking-water treatment plants, which is an important element of quality con-
trol. Other microbiological indicators, not necessarily associated with faecal
pollution, may also be used for this purpose.
     The isolation of specific pathogens in water should be undertaken only by
reference laboratories for purposes of investigating and controlling outbreaks of
disease. Routine isolation in other circumstances is not practical.
     Detailed methods for use in bacteriological analysis are described in Annex 5
(multiple-tube method), Annex 6 (membrane-filtration method), Annex 7 (on-
site testing method), and Annex 8 (presence-absence test).

                                         56
                                      4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




Fig. 4.2 Transport box for samples for microbiological analysis




      Ice-pack or
      freezing mixture



                                 57
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




4.2.1 Indicator organisms
The properties and significance of the commonly used faecal indicator bacteria
are described in detail in Volume 1; a summary is provided here.
     Escherichia coli is a member of the family Enterobacteriaceae, and is charac-
terized by possession of the enzymes ~-galactosidase and ~-glucuronidase. It
grows at 44-45 oc on complex media, ferments lactose and mannitol with the
production of acid and gas, and produces indole from tryptophan. However,
some strains can grow at 37 oc bur not at 44-45 oe, and some do not produce
gas. E. coli does not produce oxidase or hydrolyse urea. Complete identification
of the organism is too complicated for routine use, but a number of tests have
been developed for rapid and reliable identification. Some of these methods have
been standardized at international and national levels and accepted for routine
use; others are still being developed or evaluated.
     Escherichia coli is abundant in human and animal faeces; in fresh faeces it may
attain concentrations of 10 9 per gram. It is found in sewage, treated effluents, and
all natural waters and soils subject to recent faecal contamination, whether from
humans, wild animals, or agricultural activity. Recently, it has been suggested
that E. coli may be present or even multiply in tropical waters not subject to
human faecal pollution. However, even in the remotest regions, faecal contami-
nation by wild animals, including birds, can never be excluded. Because animals
can transmit pathogens that are infective in humans, the presence of E. coli or
thermotolerant coliform bacteria must not be ignored, because the presumption
remains that the water has been faecally contaminated and that treatment has
been ineffective.


Thermotolerant coliform bacteria
Thermotolerant coliform bacteria are the coliform organrsms that are able to
ferment lactose at 44-45 °C; the group includes the genus Escherichia and some
species of Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Citrobacter. Thermotolerant coliforms
other than E. coli may also originate from organically enriched water such as
industrial effluents or from decaying plant materials and soils. For this reason, the
term "faecal" coliforms, although frequently employed, is not correct, and its use
should be discontinued.
     Regrowth of thermotolerant coliform organisms in the distribution system is
unlikely unless sufficient bacterial nutrients are present, unsuitable materials are
in contact with the treated water, the water temperature is above 13 oe, and there
is no free residual chlorine.
     In most circumstances, concentrations of thermotolerant coliforms are di-
rectly related to that of E. coli. Their use in assessing water quality is therefore
considered acceptable for routine purposes, but the limitations with regard to
specificity should always be borne in mind when the data are interpreted. If high
counts of thermotolerant coliforms are found in the absence of detectable sanitary

                                         58
                                              4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




hazards, additional confirmatory tests specific for E. coli should be carried out.
National reference laboratories developing national standard methods are advised
to examine the specificity of the thermotolerant coliform test for E. coli under
local conditions.
     Because thermotolerant coliform organisms are readily detected, they have an
important secondary role as indicators of the efficiency of water-treatment pro-
cesses in removing faecal bacteria. They may therefore be used in assessing the
degree of treatment necessary for waters of different quality and for defining
performance targets for removal of bacteria.



Coliform organisms (total coliforms)
Coliform organisms have long been recognized as a suitable microbial indicator
of drinking-water quality, largely because they are easy to detect and enumerate
in water. The term "coliform organisms" refers to Gram-negative, rod-shaped
bacteria capable of growth in the presence of bile salts or other surface-active
agents with similar growth-inhibiting properties and able to ferment lactose at
35-37 °C with the production of acid, gas, and aldehyde within 24-48 hours.
They are also oxidase-negative and non-spore-forming and display ~-galactosi­
dase activity.
     Traditionally, coliform bacteria were regarded as belonging to the genera
Escherichia, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, and Klebsiella. However, as defined by
modern taxonomical methods, the group is heterogeneous. It includes lactose-
fermenting bacteria, such as Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacterfreundii, which
can be found in both faeces and the environment (nutrient-rich waters, soil,
decaying plant material) as well as in drinking-water containing relatively high
concentrations of nutrients, as well as species that are rarely, if ever, found in
faeces and may multiply in relatively good-quality drinking-water, e.g. Serratia
fonticola, Rabnella aquatilis, and Buttiauxella agrestis.
     The existence both of non-faecal bacteria that fit the definitions of coliform
bacteria and of lactose-negative coliform bacteria limits the applicability of this
group as an indicator of faecal pollution. Coliform bacteria should not be detect-
able in treated water supplies and, if found, suggest inadequate treatment, post-
treatment contamination, or excessive nutrients. The coliform test can therefore
be used as an indicator both of treatment efficiency and of the integrity of the
distribution system. Although coliform organisms may not always be directly
related to the presence of faecal contamination or pathogens in drinking-water,
the coliform test is still useful for monitoring the microbial quality of treated
piped water supplies. If there is any doubt, especially when coliform organisms
are found in the absence of thermotolerant coliforms and E. coli, identification to
the species level or analyses for other indicator organisms may be undertaken to
investigate the nature of the contamination. Sanitary inspections will also be
needed.

                                        59
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Faecal streptococci
Faecal streptococci are those streptococci generally present in the faeces of hu-
mans and animals. All possess the Lancefield group D antigen. Taxonomically,
they belong to the genera Enterococcus and Streptococcus. The taxonomy of entero-
cocci has recently undergone important changes, and detailed knowledge of the
ecology of many of the new species is lacking; the genus Emerococcus now
includes all streptococci that share certain biochemical properties and have a wide
tolerance of adverse growth conditions-E. allium, E. casselijlaZJus, E. cecorurn, E.
durans, E. foecalis, E. foecium, E. gallinarum, E. hirae, E. malodoratus, E. mundtii,
and E. solitarius. Most of these species are of faecal origin and can generally be
regarded as specific indicators of human faecal pollution for most practical
purposes. They may, however, be isolated from the faeces of animals, and certain
species and subspecies, such as E. casselijlalllts, E. foecalis var. !iquefociens, E.
rnalodoratus, and E. solitarius, occur primarily on plant material.
     In the genus Streptococcus, only S. boZJis and S. equinus possess the group D
antigen and therefore belong to the faecal streptococcus group. They derive
mainly from animal faeces. Faecal streptococci rarely multiply in polluted water,
and they are more persistent than E. coli and coliform bacteria. Their primary
value in water-quality examination is therefore as additional indicators of treat-
ment efficiency. Moreover, streptococci are highly resistant to drying and may be
valuable for routine control after new mains are laid or distribution systems are
repaired, or for detecting pollution of groundwaters or surface waters by surface
run-off.


4.2.2 Principal analytical techniques
The standardization of methods and laboratory procedures is important. Interna-
tional standard methods should be evaluated under local conditions before they
are formally adopted by national surveillance programmes. A list ofiSO standard
methods is given in the Bibliography. The methods described in the annexes to
this publication are based on these ISO standard methods, modified where
appropriate in the light of experience in the surveillance of community water
supplies.
     The principal methods used in the isolation of indicator organisms from
water are the membrane-filtration (MF) method, the multiple-tube (MT) or
most probable number (MPN) method and presence-absence tests.


Membrane-filtration method
In the membrane-filtration (MF) method, a minimum volume of 10 ml of the
sample (or dilution of the sample) is introduced aseptically into a sterile or
properly disinfected filtration assembly containing a sterile membrane filter
(nominal pore size 0.2 or 0.45!-lm). A vacuum is applied and the sample is drawn

                                         60
                                                        4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




             Table 4.3 Typical sample volumes for
                       membrane-filtration analysis
             Sample type                                        Sample volume
                                                                     (m I)

             Treated drinking-water                                  100
             Partially treated drinking-water                         10-100
             Protected source water or groundwater                    10-100
             Surface water and water from open wells                 0 1-1003

             ' Volumes less than 10 ml should be added to the f1ltrat1on apparatus
               after add1t1on of at least 10 ml of ster1le diluent to ensure adequate
               dispersal across the surface of the membrane filter




through the membrane filter. All indicator organisms are retained on or within
the filter, which is then transferred to a suitable selective culture medium in a
Petri dish. Following a period of resuscitation, during which the bacteria become
acclimatized to the new conditions, the Petri dish is transferred to an incubator
at the appropriate selective temperature where it is incubated for a suitable time
to allow the replication of the indicator organisms. Visually identifiable colonies
are formed and counted, and the results are expressed in numbers of "colony-
forming units" (CFU) per 100 ml of original sample.
     This technique is inappropriate for waters with a level of turbidity that would
cause the filter to become blocked before an adequate volume of water had passed
through. When it is necessary to process low sample volumes (less than 10 ml), an
adequate volume of sterile diluent must be used to disperse the sample before
filtration and ensure that it passes evenly across the entire surface of the mem-
brane filter. Membrane filters may be expensive in some countries.
     Typical sample volumes for different water types are shown in Table 4.3.
Where the quality of the water is totally unknown, it may be advisable to test two
or more volumes in order to ensure that the number of colonies on the membrane
is in the optimal range for counting (20-80 colonies per membrane).


Multiple-tube method
The multiple-tube method is also referred to as the most probable number
(MPN) method because-unlike the MF method-it is based on an indirect
assessment of microbial density in the water sample by reference to statistical
tables to determine the most probable number of microorganisms present in the
original sample. It is essential for highly turbid samples that cannot be analysed
by membrane filtration. The technique is used extensively for drinking-water
analysis, but it is time-consuming to perform and requires more equipment,
glassware, and consumables than membrane filtration. However, the multiple-
tube method may be more sensitive than membrane filtration.

                                               61
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 4.4 Typical sample volumes and numbers of tubes for the
          multiple-tube method
Sample type                                          Number of tubes for sample volume:

                                              50ml        10ml         1 ml       0.1 ml      0.01 mla

Treated dnnk1ng-water                                        5
Partially treated dnnk1ng-water                              5          5           5
Protected source water or groundwater                        5          5           5
Surface water or water from open wells                                  5           5             5
" Volumes of 0 1 and 0 01 ml are tested by the add1t1on of 1 ml of a 1/10 and 1/100 d1lut1on sample,
  respectively, to 10 ml of Single-strength culture med1um




     The multiple-tube method depends on the separate analysis of a number of
volumes of the same sample. Each volume is mixed with culture medium and
incubated. The concentration of microorganisms in the original sample can then
be estimated from the pattern of positive results (the number of tubes showing
growth in each volume series) by means of statistical tables that give the "most
probable number" per 100 ml of the original sample.
     The combination of sample volumes for processing is selected according to
the type of water sample or known degree of contamination. Various configura-
tions and tables may be used; typical volumes and dilutions are summarized in
Table 4.4.
     Appropriate volumes of water are added aseptically to tubes or other vessels
containing sterile nutrient medium of a concentration that will ensure the mix-
ture corresponds to single-strength medium. For example, 10 ml of sample would
typically be added to 10 m! of double-strength medium or 1 m! of sample to 10 ml
of single-strength medium and so on. The tube must also contain a small inverted
glass tube (Durham tube) to facilitate the detection of gas production. Growth in
the medium is confirmed by visible turbidity and/or a colour change. Tubes are
incubated without resuscitation, and the number of positive reactions is recorded
after 24 and/or 48 hours, depending on the type of analysis.


Presence-absence tests
Presence-absence tests may be appropriate for monitoring good-quality drink-
ing-water where positive results are known to be rare. They are not quantitative
and, as their name suggests, they indicate only the presence or absence of the
indicator sought. Such results are of very little use in countries or situations where
contamination is common; the purpose of analysis is then to determine the
degree of contamination rather than indicate whether or not contamination is
present. Thus, presence-absence tests are not recommended for use in the analy-
sis of surface waters, untreated small-community supplies, or larger water supplies
that may experience occasional operational and maintenance difficulties.

                                                  62
                                                    4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




4.2.3 Choice of methods
Very often the choice between the multiple-tube and the membrane-filtration
methods will depend on national or local factors, e.g. the equipment already
available or the cost of certain consumables. The advantages and disadvantages
of each method should be considered when a choice has to be made; these are
summarized in Table 4.5. The schematic decision-making network shown in Fig.
4.3 will aid the selection of procedure and method. The purpose of this diagram
is merely to provide suggestions for the approach to be used; local or other
circumstances will also affect the final decision.


4.2.4 Minimizing the cost of analysis
It is sometimes clear that faecal contamination exists (e.g. immediately down-
stream of a sewage discharge) or that contamination is very unlikely (e.g. in a
distribution network with a free chlorine residual greater than 0.5 mg/litre, me-
dian turbidity less than 1 NTU, and pH less than 8.0). Microbiological analysis
may then be deemed unnecessary. This is not appropriate, however, under certain
conditions, e.g. where there is a legal requirement to conduct analysis, or where
legal action that may be taken would depend on the results of a microbiological
analysis of the water.
     Omission of microbiological analysis under the appropriate conditions men-
tioned above may contribute to minimizing costs. It may also ensure that ad-
equate numbers of samples are investigated overall where the resources available


Table 4.5 Comparison of methods for analysis of coliform bacteria
Most probable number method                               Membrane-filtration method

Slower requ1res 48 hours for a negat1ve or                Ou1cker quant1tat1ve results 1n
presumptive pos1t1ve result                               about 18 hours
More labour-1ntens1ve                                     Less labour-1ntens1ve
Requ1res more culture med1um                              Requ1res less culture med1um
Requ1res more glassware                                   Requires less glassware
More sens1t1ve                                            Less sens1t1ve
Result obtained 1nd1rectly by stat1st1cal approximation   Result obta1ned directly by
(low prec1s1on)                                           colony count (h1gh prec1son)
Not read1ly adaptable for use 1n the f1eld                Read1ly adaptable for use 1n
                                                          the f1eld
Applicable to all types of water                          Not applicable to turbid waters
Consumables read1ly available 1n most countnes            Consumables costly 1n many
                                                          countnes
May g1ve better recovery of stressed or damaged
organisms under some circumstances



                                             63
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 4.3 Decision-making network for selection of method of
         analysis
Note Analysis may sometimes be necessary because of specifiC local circumstances, e g.
     where leg1slat1on demands that such analys1s should be undertaken, or where legal
     action may be taken on the basis of analytical results.



                                             Is the source obv1ously heav1ly
                                       contaminated w1th human or an1mal faeces?
  I
 NO
                                                               I
                                                             YES



 Is analys1s to                   If the sample IS from a distribution network, does
be undertaken                    1t conta1n free chlonne greater than 0.5 mg/1, have
    anyway?                       a pH less than 8.0 and turbidity less than 5 NTU?




 NO          YES                      NO                                        YES




                   Is sample very turb1d?                           Sample IS unlikely to
                                                                   contain faecal bacteria
                                                                      Is analysis to be
                                                                    undertaken anyway?

                      YES                   NO
                                                             YES                        NO



              Transport sample to                Is 1! practical to transport
             laboratory on 1ce w1th                   sample on 1ce to a
                 thiosulfate and                 laboratory for processing
            process w1th1n 24 hours                    w1th1n 24 hours?
                by MPN method



                                              YES                         NO


                                                 !                      On-s1te testing usmg
                                   Transport sample to
                                  laboratory on 1ce w1th                 MF m portable k1ts
                                     th1osulfate and
                                 process w1thin 24 hours
                                   using e1ther MPN or
                                       MF methods
                                                                                       WH096546




                                             64
                                               4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




for analysis are inadequate to undertake the recommended number of microbio-
logical analyses.


4.2.5 Laboratory-based versus on-site testing
Water-quality testing in communities may be subject to the following problems,
especially when the communities or the sampling sites are remote or inaccessible:
          deterioration of samples during transport to centralized laboratory
          facilities;
          high cost of transporting samples;
          inadequate techniques for sample storage and preservation during pro-
          longed transport, thus limiting the sampling range;
          increased personnel costs because of the need for repeat sampling
          JOUrneys;
          the need for reporting, which may necessitate further return journeys.
     If there are delays in sample transport and analysis-and therefore in report-
ing-remedial action is also likely to be delayed. For these reasons, on-site water
testing using portable equipment is appropriate in many remote areas. Portable
equipment is used in many developing countries, and does help to overcome a
number of logistic and financial constraints. However, it varies widely in techni-
cal specifications, including the range of analyses that can be performed, the range
of methods employed, its robustness, the degree of independence from central
laboratory facilities, its portability, and requirements for consumables.
     Portable testing equipment may also be favoured by agencies that undertake
project monitoring in more than one area on a non-routine basis and therefore
prefer portability to the establishment of a conventional laboratory. For reasons
that include the following, portable equipment may also be used in conventional
laboratories in place of normal laboratory equipment, especially when the num-
ber of analyses to be performed per day is relatively low.
    Independence from (unreliable) power supplies. Several types of portable
    equipment either incorporate a rechargeable battery or may be connected to
    an external battery. Where energy supplies are unreliable (because of either
    voltage fluctuation or intermittent supply), battery operation may be
    advantageous.
•   Cost. Comparison of the costs of the equipment required, even after allowing
    for that needed for back-up, may show that it is more economical to provide
    portable testing equipment to peripheral or decentralized laboratories than
    conventional laboratory equipment.
•   Ease of use. Because portable equipment is often designed for use by person-
    nel who are not fully qualified in laboratory techniques, its use is usually
    straightforward. However, this does not obviate the need for proper training
    of personnel, particularly since some portable equipment may not be accom-
    panied by clear, well-illustrated manuals in the language of the users.

                                        65
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     Use of portable equipment in conventional laboratories also carries a number
of disadvantages, including limitations in technical specifications. Although not
invariably true, the requirement for portability may mean that portable equip-
ment is of lower precision and sensitivity than conventional equipment. More-
over, while some types of portable equipment help to reduce dependence on
expensive consumables that may be difficult to obtain in many countries (e.g. by
employing reusable aluminium Petri dishes, rather than dishes made of dispos-
able plastic or fragile glass), others actually increase dependence on non-standard
glassware and, particularly, consumables (such as microbiological culture media
in ampoules and preweighed reagents for chemical tests). These items are invari-
ably more expensive than ordinary laboratory consumables and may be available
only from the manufacturer of the portable equipment. Independence of special
consumables is of particular importance for some reagents and microbiological
culture media; ready-prepared liquid media in ampoules eliminate errors in
media preparation but they have only limited shelf-life. This is an especially
relevant consideration in developing countries, where delays in importation,
variability of demand, and problems with transport may seriously reduce the
remaining shelf-life of media. Under these conditions, it is preferable to supply
dehydrated media-ideally in preweighed quantities-with a relatively long
shelf-life.
     The use of portable testing equipment may be the result of a commitment to
the decentralization of testing facilities. Whether or not this is the case, it
generally means that small numbers of analyses are undertaken at a larger number
of sites, which has important implications for training:
    The number of personnel carrying out analyses will be greater so that the
    need for training will be greater.
•   The personnel who are to use the equipment (and who are therefore to be
    trained) will not be working in the capital city, but in relatively remote areas
    far from training centres.
•   These personnel are less likely to have received good initial training in
    laboratory techniques.
    Thus there is actually a greater need for training when decentralized water-
quality testing is contemplated, which is in contrast to the popular perception of
"simplified" portable testing equipment for which little additional training is
required. Many of the benefits expected from decentralized water-quality testing
and/or on-site analysis are unlikely to be realized unless adequate resources are
devoted to training.


4.2.6 Single-application (disposable) test kits
Disposable test kits are both widely marketed and increasingly used in developed
countries. Their reliability may vary widely and they should be properly assessed
by a reference laboratory. In developing countries, there are other drawbacks to

                                        66
                                               4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




the use of disposable kits: unit costs, which are high in developed countries, may
be still higher, and the trade-off against personnel and staff costs is thus less
favourable in developing countries.


4.3 Physicochemical analysis
4.3.1 Chlorine residual
The disinfection of drinking-water supplies constitutes an important barrier
against waterborne diseases. Although various disinfectants may be used, chlorine
in one form or another is the principal disinfecting agent employed in small
communities in most countries.
     Chlorine has a number of advantages as a disinfectant, including its relative
cheapness, efficacy, and ease of measurement, both in laboratories and in the
field. An important additional advantage over some other disinfectants is that
chlorine leaves a disinfectant residual that assists in preventing recontamination
during distribution, transport, and household storage of water. The absence of a
chlorine residual in the distribution system may, in certain circumstances, indi-
cate the possibility of post-treatment contamination.
     Three types of chlorine residual may be measured: free chlorine (the most
reactive species, i.e. hypochlorous acid and the hypochlorite ion); combined
chlorine (less reactive but more persistent species formed by the reaction of free
chlorine species with organic material and ammonia); and total chlorine (the sum
of the free and combined chlorine residuals). Free chlorine is unstable in aqueous
solution, and the chlorine content of water samples may decrease rapidly, particu-
larly at warm temperatures. Exposure to strong light or agitation will accelerate
the rate of loss of free chlorine. Water samples should therefore be analysed for
free chlorine immediately on sampling and not stored for later testing.
     The method recommended for the analysis of chlorine residual in drinking-
water employs N,Ndiethyl-p-phenylenediamine, more commonly referred to as
DPD. Methods in which o-tolidine is employed were formerly recommended,
but this substance is a recognized carcinogen, and the method is inaccurate and
should not be used. Analysis using starch-potassium iodide is not specific for free
chlorine, but measures directly the total of free and combined chlorine; the
method is not recommended except in countries where it is impossible to obtain
or prepare DPD.
     Procedures for the determination of free chlorine residual are described in
 Annex 9.


4.3.2 pH
It is important to measure pH at the same time as chlorine residual since the
efficacy of disinfection with chlorine is highly pH-dependent: where the pH
exceeds 8.0, disinfection is less effective. To check that the pH is in the optimal

                                        67
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




range for disinfection with chlorine (less than 8.0), simple tests may be conducted
in the field using comparators such as that used for chlorine residual. With some
chlorine comparators, it is possible to measure pH and chlorine residual simulta-
neously. Alternatively, portable pH electrodes and meters are available. If these
are used in the laboratory, they must be calibrated against fresh pH standards at
least daily; for field use, they should be calibrated immediately before each test.
Results may be inaccurate if the water has a low buffering capacity.
     Procedures for measuring pH using a comparator are described in Annex 10.


4.3.3 Turbidity
Turbidity is important because it affects both the acceptability of water to
consumers, and the selection and efficiency of treatment processes, particularly
the efficiency of disinfection with chlorine since it exerts a chlorine demand and
protects microorganisms and may also stimulate the growth of bacteria.
     In all processes in which disinfection is used, the turbidity must always be
low-preferably below 1 NTU or JTU (these units are interchangeable in prac-
tice). It is recommended that, for water to be disinfected, the turbidity should be
consistently less than 5 NTU or JTU and ideally have a median value ofless than
1 NTU.
     Turbidity may change during sample transit and storage, and should there-
fore be measured on site at the time of sampling. This can be done by means of
electronic meters (which are essential for the measurement of turbidities below
5 NTU). For the monitoring of small-community water supplies, however,
high sensitivity is not essential, and visual methods that employ extinction and
are capable of measuring turbidities of 5 NTU and above are adequate. These rely
on robust, low-cost equipment that does not require batteries and is readily
transportable in the field, and are therefore generally preferred.
     Procedures for measuring turbidity in the field using a simple "turbidity
tube" are described in Annex 10.


4.4 Aesthetic parameters
Aesthetic parameters are those detectable by the senses, namely turbidity, colour,
taste, and odour. They are important in monitoring community water supplies
because they may cause the water supply to be rejected and alternative (possibly
poorer-quality) sources to be adopted, and they are simple and inexpensive to
monitor qualitatively in the field.


4.4.1 Colour
Colour in drinking-water may be due to the presence of coloured organic matter,
e.g. humic substances, metals such as iron and manganese, or highly coloured
industrial wastes. Drinking-water should be colourless. For the purposes of

                                        68
                                              4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




surveillance of community water supplies, it is useful simply to note the presence
or absence of observable colour at the time of sampling. Changes in the colour of
water and the appearance of new colours serve as indicators that further investi-
gation is needed.


4.4.2 Taste and odour
Odours in water are caused mainly by the presence of organic substances. Some
odours are indicative of increased biological activity, others may result from
industrial pollution. Sanitary inspections should always include the investigation
of possible or existing sources of odour, and attempts should always be made to
correct an odour problem. Taste problems (which are sometimes grouped with
odour problems) usually account for the largest single category of consumer
complaints.
     Generally, the taste buds in the oral cavity detect the inorganic compounds
of metals such as magnesium, calcium, sodium, copper, iron, and zinc. As water
should be free of objectionable taste and odour, it should not be offensive to the
majority of the consumers. If the sampling officer has reason to suspect the
presence of harmful contaminants in the supply, it is advisable to avoid direct
tasting and swallowing of the water. Under these circumstances, a sample should
be taken for investigation to a central laboratory.


4.5 Other analyses of relevance to health
Although the great majority of quality problems with community drinking-water
are related to faecal contamination, a significant number of serious problems
may occur as a result of chemical contamination from a variety of natural and
man-made sources. In order to establish whether such problems exist, chemical
analyses must be undertaken. However, it would be extremely costly to undertake
the determination of a wide range of parameters on a regular basis, particularly in
the case of supplies that serve small numbers of people. Fortunately, such param-
eters tend be less variable in source waters than faecal contamination, so that
alternative strategies can be employed.
     The range of health-related parameters may include:
         fluoride (where it is known to occur naturally)
         nitrate (where intensification of farming has led to elevated levels m
         groundwater)
         lead (in areas where it has been used in plumbing)
         chromium (e.g. in areas where it is mined)
         arsenic (in areas where it is known to occur naturally)
         pesticides (where local practices and use indicate that high levels are
         likely).
     If these or any other chemicals of health significance are thought to
be present, they should be monitored and the results examined in the light of

                                        69
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




the WHO guideline values and any relevant national standards (see Volumes 1
and 2).
    Some health-related parameters may be measured in community supplies by
means of portable test kits based on conventional titrations, comparators, or
photometers. If this is done, the reagents must be of high quality and carefully
standardized. Other parameters require conventional laboratory analysis by
spectrophotometry, atomic absorption spectroscopy, or chromatography, using
standard methods.


4.6 Analytical quality assurance and quality control
Standard methods for drinking-water analysis should be tested under local con-
ditions for accuracy and precision, agreed at national level, and applied univer-
sally by both water-supply and regulatory agencies. However, the use of standard
methods does not in itself ensure that reliable and accurate results will be
obtained.
     In the context of analytical work, the terms quality assurance and quality
control are often treated as synonymous. In fact, they are different concepts.
     Analytical quality control is the generation of data for the purpose of assess-
ing and monitoring how good an analytical method is and how well it is
operating. This is normally described in terms of within-day and day-to-day
precision.
     Analytical quality assurance, by contrast, comprises all the steps taken by a
laboratory to assure those who receive the data that the laboratory is producing
valid results. Quality assurance thus encompasses analytical quality control but
also includes many other aspects such as proving that the individuals who carried
out an analysis were competent to do so, and ensuring that the laboratory has
established and documented analytical methods, equipment calibration proce-
dures, management lines of responsibility, systems for data retrieval, sample-
handling procedures and so on.
     A checklist for effective analytical quality assurance is given in Table 4.6.
     Quality assurance as applied to conventional laboratories is relatively straight-
forward. It is also important in field testing in view of the more exacting
conditions under which it takes place and the unspecialized nature of the respon-
sible staff. Paradoxically, therefore, quality assurance has the greatest importance
in circumstances where it is most difficult to undertake. The following are among
the possible approaches to overcoming the problem:
    Supervision. An effective network for on-site testing cannot function without
    adequate supervision, which should cover all field activities, including water-
    quality testing. This helps to maintain adequate standards of analysis.
•   Blank sample analysis. It is unlikely that staff will be willing to submit reports
    from the field which question their own ability. Furthermore, it is often
    impractical to prepare, distribute, and collect the results of known quality-

                                         70
                                                    4 WATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS




Table 4.6 Checklist for effective analytical quality assurance
Do laboratory personnel have:
    clearly defined responsibilities?
    qual1f1cat1ons?
    expenence?
    tra1n1ng?

Is space:
-    adequate for the types and number of analyses be1ng undertaken?

Is equipment:
     adequate?
-    regularly serv1ced and ma1nta1ned?
-    calibrated and used only by authonzed personnel?

Are materials:
-   bought from a reliable supplier, who cames out qual1ty control?

Are there proper facilities:
-   for the rece1pt and storage of samples, and systems for cod1ng and 1dent1fy1ng
    them?

Are data:
-   archived?
-   retnevable?

Are methods:
    validated?
-   documented?
-   mon1tored (1 e the results subjected to analyt1cal qual1ty control)?

Is safety assured by:
     adequate work1ng and waste-disposal procedures?
     tra1n1ng of staff?
     proper maintenance of equipment?
     proper superv1s1on of staff?




    control samples, which would anyway receive especially careful treatment in
    the field. An alternative strategy is therefore to encourage staff to process
    sterile distilled water in place of the sample from time to time. If contamina-
    tion does occur, analysts should then recognize the inadequacies in their own
    technique and question their own work accordingly. Similarly, samples
    known to be contaminated may be processed to provide a crude positive
    control.
    Equipment review. A commitment to decentralized testing with field test kits
    and other portable equipment normally results in a larger quantity of equip-
    ment being in use. Regular review of the equipment (e.g. temperature check-
    ing of incubators) is essential. To ensure standardization, this should be
    undertaken by supervisory staff from a control laboratory.

                                             71
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




    The applicability of methods under field conditions should be assessed by a
central laboratory.


4.7 Safety
The safety of staff undertaking analytical procedures, both in the field and in the
laboratory, is of the greatest importance. All staff should be trained in safety
procedures relevant to their work. In the laboratory, individual staff members
should be authorized to undertake procedures involving risk of any type only after
appropriate training; unauthorized staff should not be allowed to undertake
analyses.
    All laboratories should formulate and implement a safety policy that should
cover cleaning, disinfection, and the containment of hazardous substances. Safety
equipment such as fire extinguishers, safety glasses, and first-aid kits should be
suitably located, and readily available; they should be routinely checked and all
staff should be trained in their use.




                                        72
5.
Data analysis and interpretation



5.1 Introduction
The objective of surveillance is not simply to collect and collate information,
but also to contribute to the protection of public health by promoting the
improvement of water supply with respect to quality, quantity, coverage, cost and
continuity.
     Clearly, the aim of a surveillance programme is to generate data that lead to
optimization of activities and investment and thence to improved drinking-water
supplies. Data analysis and interpretation are therefore fundamental components
of the surveillance process.


5.2 Results of community surveys
5.2.1 Evaluation of water-supply systems
As outlined in Chapter 1, the evaluation of community water supplies requires
the consideration of a number of quantitative factors. The quantitative nature of
the evaluation makes possible the meaningful comparison of systems, and assists
in the assignment of relative priorities to those requiring improvement. The
indicators most commonly used to evaluate community water supplies are qual-
i~y, quanti~, coverage, cost, and continui~, as defined in Chapter 1. Each is
discussed below in the context of the analysis and interpretation of the data
generated during surveillance activities.


Quality
The target for water quality should be compliance with national standards, which
should in turn be based on the health criteria given in Volume 1. Water quality
is assessed by means of sanitary inspections and appropriate analytical measure-
ments, discussed in detail in sections 5.3 and 5.4, respectively.


Quantity
Estimates of the volume of water needed for health purposes vary widely. It is
assumed here that daily per capita consumption of drinking-water is approxi-

                                       73
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




mately 2litres, although this figure varies from country to country. However, this
does not take into account the water needed for personal and domestic hygiene,
which are also important for the maintenance and improvement of public health.
In rural areas, daily consumption for these purposes varies widely; in urban areas,
with piped supplies to house connections, it may exceed 100 litres per capita
per day.
     Measurements of the volume of water collected or supplied for domestic
purposes may be used as a basic hygiene indicator. Some authorities use a
guideline value of 50 litres per capita per day, but this is based on the assumption
that personal washing and laundry are carried out in the home; where this is not
the case, lower figures may be acceptable.
     In the analysis of bulk figures related to water entering piped distribution
systems, it should be borne in mind that:
•   The figures will be averages, and consumption in different households may
    vary widely, e.g. with socioeconomic status.
    Leakages may make a significant contribution to apparent consumption.
•   Even a single dwelling using piped water for irrigation or for commercial
    purposes may significantly influence the apparent consumption for a com-
    munity water supply.
•   The flow of water entering the distribution system during the day does not
    necessarily represent the sustained input during 24 hours, and overflows may
    be significant at certain times.


Coverage
From the public health standpoint, the percentage of the population provided
with drinking-water-the coverage-is the most important single indicator of
the overall success of a water-supply programme. From the point of view of the
water-supply agency, coverage is expressed as the percentage of the total popula-
tion served; it may be subdivided into the population served by domestic connec-
tions, by public standposts, and by point sources such as wells and springs.
    However, the surveillance agency has a responsibility for the public health
aspects of water supply to the entire population. It is therefore essential that the
agency undertake wider surveys of the various means by which drinking-water is
provided to the population, the estimated population served by each means of
supply, and the relative health risk associated with each of them. This informa-
tion should be formally reported to the national planning authorities and used to
guide water-supply programmes and funding strategies.


Cost
Cost may be an important factor influencing access to water, and is especially
important in periurban areas where water is purchased from vendors. Where such

                                        74
                                          5 DATA ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION




water is the only water available for personal and domestic hygiene purposes, the
adverse effects of high costs on public health are proportionally greater. In these
circumstances it is quite common for the amount paid by individual families
for water to be sufficient, if combined, to finance the construction or expansion
of a piped water supply adequate to satisfy public health needs. Information on
the cost per family is therefore important for national and regional planning
purposes.
     Cost is also important in community water supplies where the local capacity
to finance operation and maintenance is limited, especially if inappropriate
technology has been employed. Where the surveillance agency identifies prob-
lems of this type, it is vital that the national and regional planning structures are
informed, so that the situation will not be repeated and adequate support for
operation and maintenance is provided.
     Cost recovery is essential if a water supply is to be sustainable; it requires a
rational charging structure. Charges must be collected and used for the purpose
intended. Consumers are reluctant to pay for a poor-quality service, and this may
compound the problem. Various forms of cost recovery are used, including
metering, flat rates for domestic use, and charges related to the size or value of
properties. Metering is often favoured, but may meet resistance from consumers;
it can be costly in both installation and subsequent reading and charging.


Continuity
Analysis of data on continuity of supply requires the consideration of two
components-daily and seasonal continuity. Continuity can be classified as
follows:
•   year-round services from a reliable source with no interruption of flow at the
    tap;
•   year-round service with daily variation, of which the most common causes
    are:
         restricted pumping regimes in pumped systems, whether planned or due to
         power failure;
         peak demand exceeding the flow capacity of the conduction line or the
         capacity of the reservoir;
•   seasonal service variation resulting from source fluctuation, which typically
    has three causes:
         natural variation in source volume during the year
         volume limitation because of competition with other uses such as
         irrigation
         periods of high turbidity when the source water may be untreatable;
•   compounded daily and annual discontinuity.
    This classification reflects broad categories of continuity, which are likely to
affect hygiene in different ways. Thus daily discontinuity results in low supply

                                         75
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




pressure and a consequent risk of in-pipe recontamination, which is potentially
hazardous in the case of unchlorinated community water supplies. Other conse-
quences include reduced availability and lower volume use, which adversely affect
washing habits. Household water storage may be necessary, and this may lead to
an increase in the risk of contamination during such storage and associated
handling. Seasonal discontinuity often forces users to obtain water from inferior
and distant sources. As a consequence, in addition to the obvious reduction in
quality and quantity, time is lost in making regular collections.


5.2.2 Hygiene practices
Some of the information generated by surveillance will be of interest in connec-
tion with hygiene education (see Chapter 7). Four types of information that are
useful in this regard can be readily obtained:
•   Areas where hygiene education is most needed-these may be where water is of
    poor quality, or where continuity is poor with the result that household
    storage becomes necessary.
    The focilities available for hygiene education-the existence of a school,
    community organizations, health post, or other community centre may serve
    to facilitate the work of hygiene educators.
•   Information on behaviour-this can easily be collected by simple observation;
    observation of household water storage practices, for example, may show that
    water is stored in open or closed containers and is withdrawn by scooping it
    out by hand, by means of any available container or a container reserved for
    the purpose, or by means of a tap or syphon.
•   Information on the prefirred means ofcommunication-this should cover radio
    and television, and the stations received, with a view to their use for educa-
    tional programmes.


5.3 Assessment of the sanitary situation
Sanitary inspection forms (see Annex 2) are needed to collect information regard-
ing specific points of risk to the water supply. This information may be used in
various ways to facilitate the improvement of community water supplies. Key
questions include:
    How can the data be expressed in terms of relative risk in order to compare
    a number of systems, including those of highest priority, and identifY simple
    remedial measures that can be undertaken at local level?
    How many false positives, i.e. falsely identified risk points, can be tolerated
    without invalidating the system? In other words, is the system robust?
•   How can a scoring system be developed which is sufficiently discriminatory
    to identifY systems requiring urgent attention without overwhelming the
    workforce with the sheer amount of remedial action required? (There is, for

                                        76
                                               5 DATA ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION




              Table 5. 1 Examples of sanitary inspection
                         riska scores
              Risk score                                     Risk

              0                                              No observed risk
              1-3                                            Low r1sk
              4-6                                            Intermediate nsk
              7-10                                           High riSk

              ' The term "nsk" as used here 1nd1cates potent1al danger to human
                health from a water source or supply In Volumes 1 and 2, "risk"
                has a more prec1se quant1tat1ve connotation




    example, little advantage in a strategy that classifies 80% of systems as being
    at "very high risk" unless massive resources are available for remedial action.)
•   How can the most important source(s) of pollution be identified among the
    number of potential sources that may have been noted?
•   How can recurrent problems be identified which should be remedied by
    changes in strategy at national level rather than by repeated local remedial
    action?
     For each type of water source the proportion or percentage of points recorded
as positive for risk during the sanitary inspection gives a sanitary risk score. These
scores can then be arbitrarily associated with different levels of relative risk (see
Table 5.1).
     The scores associated with various levels of risk should be selected in the light
of local circumstances. Because the objective is to produce a classification that
facilitates remedial action, it is important to ensure that the proportion of
supplies or point sources falling into each category is reasonably balanced. In the
early stages of implementation a narrow range of scores in the "high-risk" cat-
egory may be advisable in order to avoid overloading the workforce.
     It is a relatively simple matter to grade point-source systems where there are
typically only 10 points for inspection, but more complicated to grade commu-
nity water-supply systems which sometimes include a number of sources, treat-
ment plants, and reservoirs, plus a distribution system. In the latter case it is
particularly important to rely not only on numerical comparisons obtained by
analysis of sanitary inspection data but also on an understanding of the overall
functioning of the water supply. This highlights the importance of adequate
training related to the water-supply practices in the locality or region concerned.


5.4 Microbiological water quality
As with sanitary inspection, data on microbiological water quality may usefully be
divided into a number of categories; the levels of contamination associated with
each category should be selected in the light of local circumstances. A typical

                                             77
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 5.2 Example of classification and colour-code scheme for
          thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms or E. coli in water
          supplies
Count per 100ml      Category and colour code      Remarks

0                    A (blue)                      In conform1ty w1th WHO gu1del1nes
1-10                 B (green)                     Low nsk
10-100               C (yellow)                    Intermediate nsk
100-1000             D (orange)                    H1gh nsk
>1000                E (red)                       Very h1gh nsk



classification scheme is presented in Table 5.2, based on increasing orders of
magnitude of faecal contamination.
     Where community water supplies are unchlorinated, they will inevitably
contain large numbers of total coliform bacteria, which may be oflimited sanitary
significance. It is therefore recommended that the bacteriological classification
scheme should be based on thermotolerant (faecal) coliform bacteria or E. coli.
     Grouping of point sources into categories of the type shown in Table 5.2 is
generally straightforward. Occasionally, however, where a number of samples are
taken each year, the levels of faecal contamination may vary widely between
successive samples. The reasons for this are often obvious and may be related to
seasonal influences such as rainfall.
     However, where piped small-community water supplies are being analysed
and samples are taken at various points in the system, water quality may differ in
different parts of the system at any one time. Again, the reasons for this may
become obvious during the sanitary inspection or-if these differences are the
result of cross-contamination or contamination caused by leaks in pipework-
after resampling.
     It is common to use 95% compliance criteria when assessing the results of
microbiological analysis. This procedure is appropriate only where adequate
numbers of samples are analysed for statistical purposes and is not generally
applicable to small-community water supplies.


5.5 Risk assessment
For the purposes of risk analysis, the results of E. coli counts and sanitary
inspection are combined.
    Examination of the faecal grading together with the sanitary inspection risk
scores for a large number of facilities should make it possible to assess relative
priorities both for local remedial action and for regional planning purposes. In
general, the classification schemes shown in Tables 5.1 and 5.2 facilitate such risk
analysis when combined as illustrated in Fig. 5.1. Nevertheless, it may be neces-
sary to test various classifications to find the combination most useful for local
conditions.

                                        78
                                                                5 DATA ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION




Fig. 5. 1 Example of assessment of priority of remedial actions by
          risk analysis
                                           San1tary mspect1on r1sk score
                 0               2            3            4           5              6         7          8            >9


         E


         D
  c
  Q
  Cii
  _g     c
  Ui
  V)
  <U
  u
  8B
  lLJ

         A

             No ac11on       Low nsk                       Intermediate to h1gh nsk                 Very h1gh nsk
             requ1red    low action pnor1ty                  higher act1on pr1onty                  urgent act1on




Fig. 5.2 Example of a completed risk analysis
Note Each number represents a water-supply facli1ty

                                           Santtary 1nspect1on r1sk score
                 0               2            3            4           5              6         7 8                     ->9
                                                     ~-----         ------     -- .. -- ------ ------               ------
                                                                  P15,
         E

                                                     59,                                  Kt,
         D                                           P2,
   c
   Q                                                                                                                  -----
  Cii
   u
                                       :             P3,          PI, 52,                 W4,     Wl, W2, W3,
  -= c                                 '
                                       '
                                                                  53, 54,
                                                                  P16, P78,
                                                                                          W5, W6,
                                                                                          P12,
                                                                                                     ------
   U)
   U)
   C1l
  u                                        55, 58,   P4, 51,
  -"'
   0     B
                          :57;
   Cl                     '                P14,
  lLJ                                                                                     -----
                                                     P11,           510,
         A

             No actiOn       Low r.sk                      Intermediate to h1gh nsk                 Very h1gh r1sk.
             requ1red    low act1on pnonty                   higher act1on pnor1ty                   urgent action




     Figure 5.2 illustrates the use of risk analysis in practice. It is clear that there
is a general tendency for the results to be distributed in a band running from the
top right to the bottom left of the table. This is to be expected since a greater risk
of contamination is likely to be associated with the occurrence of a greater degree
of contamination. Nevertheless, a high sanitary risk score associated with low-
level faecal contamination still requires urgent action, as does a low sanitary risk

                                                               79
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




score associated with high-level faecal contamination. It can be seen that the
priority rating of such systems is high.
     It is worth emphasizing that the analysis is representative of only one mo-
ment in time, whereas the inspection takes account of the previous history of the
installation and future points of risk. It is this that makes the combined analysis
useful-and particularly important when surveillance staff are dependent on a
single bacteriological analysis or a number of analyses undertaken on a single date.


5.6 Presentation of information
Information must be presented in a form that is intelligible and useful to the
recipients. The means of presenting the results obtained by monitoring commu-
nity water supplies merits particular attention as there are several target audiences,
each with different information needs and different perceptions and understand-
ing of water-supply issues.


5.6.1 Target aud1ences
In general, the target audiences are likely to include local ~ystem operators, commu-
nity members or their representatives with limited knowledge of matters such as
water quality. For this group, it is recommended that data should be interpreted
in the light of national standards or goals rather than presented only in "raw"
form. Reporting to the community should generally take place as soon as possible
after monitoring is completed. Where remedial actions are shown by sanitary
inspection to be necessary, these should be noted. If possible, information should
be provided about remedial actions that are possible at local level and those that
require external assistance. Sources of information and/or advice for the former
and sources of support for the latter may be noted. Where appropriate, the report
may also be sent to agencies who would be responsible for providing the external
assistance. The possibility of using a pictorial form which may also serve as the
sanitary inspection form has been noted earlier (see section 3.3.2), examples are
given in Annex 2. In general, presenting data in an easily understandable form,
e.g. pictorially or by means of colour coding, is more likely to result in action by
personnel at the local level.
     Where a situation merits action at the individual or household level (e.g.
when the severity of contamination indicates the need for household treatment),
information should be disseminated not only to the community but also to the
individuals and/or households concerned. "Multipliers" such as schools, clubs,
and community meetings may be used for this purpose.
     Regional planners and engineers whose responsibilities or areas of influence
cover a number of supplies form another important target audience. This group
often includes external agencies-both bilateral and multilateral aid agencies and
NGOs-as well as national authorities.



                                         80
                                           5 DATA ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION




    The information required by this group is very different from that needed by
the community, and consists essentially of data useful for regional planning
purposes. Most information will therefore be presented in an annual report,
although more frequent reporting of high-priority actions may be required.
Typically, an annual report will outline the overall quality of the water-supply
service in the region and identifY the systems in most urgent need of attention
from a public health viewpoint. Priorities can be rated as described in section 5.5.
It may also sometimes be possible to indicate the nature and extent of the work
required, e.g. "replace storage tank damaged by subsidence", or "increase cover-
age, currently 45% of a total population of 1850".
     The timing of the delivery of these reports is vital and should be such as to
enable them to be used in the preparation of annual work plans and budgets. An
example of the form that such a regional annual report may take is shown in
Annex 11.
     National planners, a third likely target audience, will use surveillance informa-
tion for large-scale planning purposes. Information intended for this group
should highlight geographical priorities and major national problems. Reporting
methodology should be standardized nationally to allow reasonable comparisons
to be made between regions. National reports typically resemble regional reports
both in presentation and timing; an example is shown in Annex 11. In general,
information at this level should be presented in a highly digested form suitable for
a nontechnical audience.


5.6.2 Simple data presentation
Experience has shown that data presented in an appropriate, generally highly
simplified, form is both educative and easy for nontechnical groups, and espe-
cially local and planning staff, to understand. Material should therefore be
prepared with this in mind.
     At local level, a simple classification of the performance of facilities, for
instance by colour coding of the type shown in Table 5.2, tends to generate
competition among communities and system operators and motivation for
operation and maintenance. Experience has shown that improvement is effected
without substantial external inputs, probably through more effective use of
the available technical facilities. For monitoring purposes, classifications of this
nature facilitate the comparison of results and thus the assessment of improve-
ment or deterioration.
     In planning at both regional and national levels, the principal uses of surveil-
lance information include policy- and strategy-making, the estimation of resource
requirements and water-resource planning, and the identification of priorities for
investment. The method of data presentation should facilitate comparison of
water supply (in terms of quality, quantity, coverage, cost, and continuity) in
different regions, the recognition of long-term trends in these parameters at



                                         81
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




regional and national level, and the pinpointing of recurrent problems that
require policy changes if they are to be overcome. The quantitative nature of
the data generated should make it possible to estimate the resource requirements
for trained staff for surveillance at various levels, the operational requirements
for surveillance, and the investment in operation and maintenance required in
water-supply improvement and expansion. Estimation of the total water-resource
requirements for drinking purposes facilitates intersectoral coordination and
large-scale water resource planning.


5.7 Use of surveillance findings
5.7.1 Use of data at local level
At the local level, it is especially important to ensure close collaboration berween
the surveillance and supply agencies. Data generated by surveillance-e.g. on
quality and quantity-should be shared berween these agencies to maximize their
usefulness. Similarly, field staff responsible for sanitary inspection should be in
close communication with the staff of the supplier (whether private, municipal,
or community organization) responsible for operation and maintenance.
     The information reported by the surveillance agency to the supplier at local
level should therefore be both detailed and appropriate to the user (e.g. the water-
supply operator). However, especially with regard to water-quality data, interpre-
tation in the context of national legislation is essential. Furthermore, some
analysis of long-term trends with respect to quality, quantity, continuity, cover-
age, and cost, and an overall analysis of service quality, e.g. on an annual basis,
facilitates the work of both agencies in ensuring adequate resources for the water-
supply sector.


5.7.2 Regional use of data
Strategies for regional prioritization are typically of a medium-term nature and
have specific data requirements. While the management of information at na-
tional level is aimed at highlighting common or recurrent problems, the objective
at regional level is to assign a degree of priority to individual interventions and to
prioritize remedial actions accordingly.
     It is therefore important to derive a relative measure of health risk and thus
establish the priority for remedial action. While the data cannot be used on their
own to determine which systems should be given immediate attention (which
would also require the analysis of economic and sociocultural factors), they
provide an extremely important tool for determining regional priorities. It should
be a declared objective to ensure that remedial action is carried out each year on
a predetermined proportion of the systems classified as high-risk.
     At regional level, it is also important to monitor the improvement (or
deterioration) both of individual supplies and of the supplies as a whole. In this

                                         82
                                            5 DATA ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION




context, simple measures, such as the mean sanitary inspection score of all
systems, the proportion of systems with given degrees of faecal contamination,
the mean continuity or quantity of water supplied per capita per day, and the
mean tariff for domestic consumption, should be calculated yearly and changes
monitored.
     In many countries, a high proportion of small-community water-supply
systems fail to meet quality standards. However, it should be recognized that to
condemn a large number of supplies is not particularly useful and may actually be
counterproductive. In such circumstances it is important that realistic goals for
progressive improvement are agreed with the suppliers and subsequently imple-
mented. At no time should the surveillance agency give up its authority to
demand compliance with standards; equally, however, it should recognize that
the supplier should be allowed a reasonable period in which to effect improve-
ments in the supply. Where compliance with standards is impossible (because of
insuperable technical difficulties or extreme budget limitations) or would be
counterproductive (because it would divert resources from other improvements
of greater public health importance), the surveillance agency may elect to post-
pone action until the situation improves.


5.7.3 Use of data for national planning
At national level, priorities should be set and disseminated by means of an annual
report with recommendations. The circulation list for this report should include
all surveillance and supply agencies, the national planning authorities, and agen-
cies involved in coordination within the water-supply sector, e.g. government
ministries responsible for local government, natural resources, health, and fi-
nance, and external support agencies. Information exchange with the national
planning authorities may provide a basis for a mutually supportive relationship
between the surveillance and supply agencies.
     To promote prioritization of remedial measures at national level, it is most
important that information flow to the national centre is efficient, that all in-
formation generated is received, and that the national centre has the means with
which to undertake the analysis of this information.
     Setting priorities at national level is by its very nature a long-term process and
there is often therefore little urgent need for data. Provided that specific informa-
tion on individual water supplies is available from the regional centres rapidly on
request, it is not necessary for the national centre to receive frequent updates for
its database; periodic updates may be adequate.




                                          83
6.
Technical interventions



6.1 Prevention and remedial measures
Surveillance is the process of gathering systematic information on hazards in
water supplies. It enables appropriate preventive measures to be taken before
failure or contamination occurs. Quality control and sanitary surveys are integral
parts of surveillance which, for most community supplies, is still a medium-to-
long-term undertaking. Surveillance planners and coordinators must look beyond
the day-to-day problems and begin to develop infrastructures and policies that
address the causes of water-supply failure and contamination.
     Remedial measures include all those technical and social interventions de-
signed to improve the water-supply service. This chapter deals with interventions
of a technical nature, while social issues are addressed in Chapter 7. Interventions
to improve water-supply service should include community education and man-
agement training; advising on all rypes of remedial action, not just technical
interventions, is a key role of the surveillance agency.
     Economic analysis shows that it is more cost-effective to carry out regular and
diligent preventive maintenance than simply to operate equipment until it breaks
down and needs expensive repairs. For example, a pump that undergoes regular
maintenance such as greasing and tightening of nuts will last longer and perform
better than one that is not maintained, breaks down, and requires spare parts. The
cost of spare parts and skilled labour is always greater than that of a pot of grease.
Complete breakdowns in supply lead to reductions in water availability and
sometimes also in quality, which jeopardize the health of the community.
     In some countries, preventive maintenance can only be really effective if the
community is also involved. However, this does not mean that governments
should abrogate their responsibilities for providing support to communities that
take on the burden of maintenance. A systematic approach to maintenance is
needed, taking account of environmental conditions, local culture, affordability
and user involvement. For example, as a general rule, the cheaper and simpler the
equipment the less maintenance it requires, the more reliable it is in practice, and
the easier it is to repair. Apart from the choice of equipment, other factors that
need to be considered collaboratively in choosing a maintenance system include
institutional responsibilities and legal obligations, logistics, financial viability,
manpower training and support, and monitoring and control. The involvement
of users in decision-making with regard to level of service, type of equipment, and

                                         84
                                                    6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




operational system is essential to successful maintenance. Advising on the types
and suitability of the remedial action to be taken should be the responsibility of
the surveillance agency.
     Even with adequate maintenance, surveillance and quality control will at
times reveal the need for corrective action. Some sanitary deficiencies may be easy
to remedy, and it may be well within the capacity of the community to take the
necessary action; others may require measures that would be costly or difficult for
the community to take without external financial or technical support. It is the
responsibility of the sanitary inspector to correctly determine the most appropri-
ate body to take remedial action and the urgency with which it should be
undertaken. The relative urgency of some typical preventive and remedial mea-
sures is shown in Table 6.1.
     Where water quality is so poor that there is an immediate threat to public
health, it may be necessary to recommend emergency precautions such as boiling
drinking-water or to supply chlorine tablets for disinfection at household level.
The water supplier or surveillance agency should ensure that remedial measures
are promptly executed, and then carry out a bacteriological analysis of the supply
to determine whether it is safe to use.
     Water-supply agencies should systematically evaluate maintenance practices
in order to pinpoint difficulties and find the most effective maintenance system.
An overview of the principal maintenance requirements of different types of
water-supply system is necessary to assist in the selection of equipment. Where
users are directly responsible for their water supplies, there should be an adequate
community-based management system based on local organizational structures
and integrated into the institutional hierarchy of the water-supply agency.


6.2 Protecting water sources
If water supplies are to remain potable, both the source and the catchment need
protection. A watershed that is used to supply untreated surface water should be
sparsely inhabited and should consistently yield dean, dear water. Every effort
should be made to site the abstraction point above sources of pollution; if this is
not possible, appropriate forms of treatment must be applied (see section 6.6). An
example of a sanitary inspection form for a simple, preliminary type of sanitary
inspection of surface-water abstraction is given in Annex 2.


6.2.1 Catchment protection
A survey of the catchment area should reveal potential sources of contamination.
Surface waters and groundwaters are both vulnerable. Whereas raw-water reser-
voirs may be protected from large-scale human activity, rivers may pass through
heavily populated areas and be contaminated by both domestic and industrial
discharges. Groundwaters may be contaminated by the seepage of industrial



                                        85
                                                                                                                                                       G)
     Table 6. 1 Preventive and remedial measures                                                                                                       c
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       m
     Source and mode       Evidence or information        Immediate remedial measures                      Preventive action for avoiding              !:::
                                                                                                                                                       z
     of supply             available                                                                       recurrence                                  m
                                                                                                                                                       (f)
                                                                                                                                                       m
                                                                                                                                                       0
     Untreated             Local1zed ep1dem1c of entenc   Chlonnate water 1n collection reservoir (tank,   (a) Ensure that collection surfaces are     :0
     commun1ty rainwater   infection                      container, etc ) or recommend bo1l1ng or             1n a san1tary condit1on and that        0
                                                                                                                                                       :0
     collect1on systems                                   d1S1nfect1on 1n the home                             bypass for Initial collected water 1s   z
                                                                                                               properly operated                       25
                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                           (b) Promote community educat1on and         G)


                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                               participation

     Open dug wells        F1nd1ngs of san1tary           (a) Clean well 1f necessary and shock-           Convert to a protected, covered well        m
                                                                                                                                                       :0
                           1nspect1on unsatisfactory          chlorinate. followed by continuous           w1th hand-pump or device for ra1s1ng
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                              chlor1nat1on                                 water ISolated from the user, discourage    c
                                                                                                                                                       )>
OJ
                           Localized ep1dem1c of          (b) Recommend bo1l1ng of dnnk1ng-water.          construction of new open dug wells,         r
0l                         entenc 1nfect1on                   use of diSinfectants and/or filters 1n the   promote commun1ty educat1on and             =i
                                                                                                                                                       -<
                                                              home                                         partiCipation
     Unpiped supplies      F1nd1ngs of sanitary           Conf1rm bactenolog1cal qual1ty and 1f            Eliminate pollution sources and/or repa1r
     from covered wells    1nspect1on unsatisfactory      necessary recommend bo1l1ng or use of            well 1f necessary to remedy
     or shallow or deep                                   diSinfectant and/or filters 1n the home          shortcomings found 1n san1tary
     tubewells w1th hand                                                                                   1nspect1on
     pumps or motonzed
                           Localized ep1dem1c of          (a) If an alternative safe supply IS not         (a) Take opportun1ty to promote
     pumps
                           entenc 1nfect1on                   available, recommend bo1l1ng or use              commun1ty education and
                                                              of disinfectants 1n the home                     part1c1pat1on
                                                          (b) Conf1rm bactenal quality                     (b) Feed 1nformat1on on the ep1sode
                                                          (c) Conduct a detailed san1tary                      and san1tary survey results back to
                                                              Inspection and remedy shortcomings               the water-supply agenc1es to help 1n
                                                              found                                            dec1d1ng whether the technologies
                                                                                                               used and the codes of pract1ce are
                                                                                                               appropnate
        Untreated p1ped   F1nd1ngs of san1tary             Conf1rm bactenolog1cal quality and 1f           El1m1nate pollut1on sources and/or repa1r
        supplies          1nspect1on unsatisfactory        necessary recommend bo1l1ng or use of           system 1f necessary to remedy
                                                           diSinfectant and/or f1lters 1n the home         shortcomings found 1n san1tary
                                                                                                           inspect1on
                          Unsatisfactory bacteriological   (a) Chlonnate supply 1f feasible or             Protect the source and 1ts catchment
                          quality of water at source           recommend bo1l1ng or d1S1nfect1on           (th1s IS very Important)
                                                               1n the home
                                                           (b) Conduct a detailed san1tary 1nspect1on
                                                               and remedy shortcomings found
                          UnsatiSfactory bactenolog1cal    (a) If source IS unsatisfactory, proceed        Frequent and Improved superv1s1on of
                          qual1ty of water 1n the              as above                                    the d1stnbu1lon system and prompt
                          d1stnbut1on system               (b) If source IS unsatisfactory but             repair and maintenance are essential,
CD                                                             d1stnbut1on system IS suspected,            especially for 1nterm1ttently operated
---.1
                                                               chlonnate supply or recommend               systems
                                                               boi11ng or d1s1nfection 1n the home
                                                           (c) Conduct a deta1led 1nspect1on of
                                                               d1stnbut1on system and remedy
                                                                                                                                                       0l
                                                               shortcomings found
                                                                                                                                                       -I
                          Local1zed ep1dem1c of entenc     (a)   Take sample for bacteriological quality   Frequent and 1mproved superv1s1on of        m
                                                                                                                                                       0
                          1nfect1on                              determ1nat1on, without wa1t1ng for th1s   the source and dlstr1but1on system IS       I
                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                 result, chlonnate general water supply    necessary, careful operation and            0
                                                                                                                                                       )>
                                                                 or recommend bo1l1ng or d1S1nfect1on      maintenance of such systems are             r
                                                                 1n the home                               essential, espec1ally for 1nterm1ttent      z
                                                           (b)   Conduct a detailed sanitary 1nspect1on    systems                                     -I
                                                                                                                                                       m
                                                                                                                                                       :0
                                                                 of source and dlstnbut1on system,                                                     <
                                                                 and remedy shortcomings found                                                         m
                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                                                                       -I
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                                                                       (f)
      Table 6.1 (continued)                                                                                                                        G)
                                                                                                                                                   c
      Source and mode   Evidence or information         Immediate remedial measures                   Preventive action for avoiding               0
                                                                                                                                                   m
      of supply         available                                                                     recurrence                                   !:::
                                                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                   Ul
      Treated ptped     Ftndtngs of santtary            Conftrm bactenologtcal quality and if         (a)    Frequent and tmproved                 ""Tl
                                                                                                                                                   0
      supervision                                                                                                                                  ::0
      suppltes          tnspectton of source,           necessary recommend botltng or use of             of the whole system 1s necessary,        0
                                                                                                                                                   ::0
                        treatment plant, and/or         dtstnfectant and/or filters tn the home           careful operation and matntenance        z
                                                                                                                                                   ;>;
                        dtstnbutlon system                                                                are essential for 1nterm1ttent systems
                        u'lsat,sfactory
                                                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                      (b) Ensure that routtne sanitary             G)


                                                                                                                                                   ~m
                                                                                                          tnspecttons are earned out
                                                                                                      (c) Feed tnformatton back to the water-
                                                                                                          supply agenctes                          ::0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                        Unsatisfactory bactenologtcal   (a) Ensure adequate chlorination of general   (a) Frequent and Improved supervtston        c
                                                                                                                                                   )>
CXl
                        qualtty of water after              supply or recommend boiling or                of the whole system IS necessary,        r
CXl                     treatment or 1n the                 dtstnfectton 1n the home                      careful operatton and matntenance        =i
                                                                                                                                                   -<
                        dtstrtbutlon system             (b) Conduct a detatled sanitary Inspection        of such systems are essenttal,
                                                            of the whole system and remedy                espectally for tntermtttent systems
                                                            shortcomtngs found                        (b) Ensure that routtne santtary
                                                                                                          tnspecttons are earned out
                                                                                                      (c) Feed information back to the water-
                                                                                                          supply agenctes
                        Localtzed epidemic of entertc   (a) Take sample for bactertologtcal qualtty   (a)   Frequent and Improved supervtston
                        tnfectton                           determtnatton, wtthout watltng for this         of the whole system IS necessary,
                                                            result, chlortnate general supply or            careful operatton and maintenance
                                                            recommend boiltng or dtstnfectlon 1n the        of such systems are essential,
                                                            home                                            especially for tntermtttent systems
                                                        (b) Conduct a detatled sanitary inspection of (b)   Ensure that routtne sanitary
                                                            source and dtstnbution system, and              tnspecttons are earned out
                                                            remedy shortcomtngs found                 (c)   Feed tnformatton back to the water-
                                                                                                            supply agenctes
                                                    6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




wastes buried in the ground or in abandoned wells, and by chemicals discharged
accidentally onto the land. Both surface waters and groundwaters are at risk from
agricultural pollution in rural areas.
     Where possible, protection zones should be clearly demarcated, and activities
that may affect water quality should be restricted or prohibited within their
boundaries. Such activities may include the dumping of toxic waste, the discharge
of undesirable effluents, drilling, mining, quarrying, and the use of agricultural
fertilizers and pesticides. Where restrictions are imposed, it is important to
publicize the conditions under which normal activities, e.g. housing develop-
ments, farming, mining and manufacturing, are permitted within protection
zones.
      In some parts of the world, risk assessment of water sources and catchment
areas is based on systems that take into consideration the hydrogeology, and the
hydraulic loading of contaminants at and below the surface. Some governments
are beginning to introduce legislation on groundwater protection zones under
which housing, industrial and certain agricultural activities will be excluded from
specified parts of catchment areas.
     Water suppliers are beginning to recognize three protection zones for
groundwater, as follows:
1. The area surrounding the source most at risk from contamination by patho-
   gens. This is often the 50-day isochron (the area within which pathogens
   would reach the source in 50 days or less).
2. The area surrounding the source most at risk from chemical contamination.
   This will vary greatly and will depend on aquifer type and abstraction rate as
   well as on industrial and agricultural activity in the area.
3. The total catchment area.
    The establishment of protection zones requires intersectoral agreements in-
volving various authorities and ministries such as those concerned with health
(surveillance), agriculture, forestry, housing, and environmental protection, as
well as the water suppliers. The demarcation and acceptance of protection zones
should be considered by governments of countries where groundwater accounts
for a significant proportion of the water supply. For further information on the
theoretical basis and practical application of groundwater protection zones, see
p. 145, "Selected further reading".


6.2.2 Groundwater protection
The most significant risk to human health related to drinking-water quality is
from microbiological-particularly faecal-contamination. Health protection
thus demands that sources of microbiological contamination are located suffi-
ciently far from drinking-water sources as to minimize or eliminate the health
risk.



                                        89
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     When abstraction from a water source for human consumption is being
considered, the minimum safe distance (MSD) for all potentially polluting activi-
ties should be fixed during the planning stage. Both surface and groundwater
sources of drinking-water require protection. However, groundwater in its natu-
ral state is generally of good quality, and because subsurface water movement is
relatively slow, it is usually easier to control sources of contamination of ground-
water than it is for surface-water sources. For community supplies, the com-
monest sources of microbiological contamination are on-site sanitation and
sewage-treatment facilities, open wells and other open surface sources of water
(e.g. borrow pits), and concentrated animal husbandry.
     The MSD should be determined from the time taken by contaminants to
travel from their source to the source of drinking-water. This will depend on local
conditions, the most important of which are the geological and hydrogeological
conditions of the area, the quantity of faecal matter likely to be discharged, and
the number of existing and planned sources of contamination. It is therefore very
difficult to specifY a universally applicable minimum distance between the loca-
tion of, for instance, pit latrines and a water source. In an area where the aquifer
is highly permeable and the overlying unsaturated zone (see Fig. 6.1) thin and
permeable, the MSD for a latrine will be far greater than in an area where a
relatively thick and impermeable unsaturated zone overlies an aquifer of relatively
low permeability.




Fig. 6. 1 Groundwater terminology




                                                                            WH096549

                                        90
                                                      6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




     In areas of fissured rock aquifers (where water is held in cracks and joints in
the rock), the velocity of groundwater movement, and therefore of contaminants,
will be high and must be taken into consideration when MSDs are set. This is
particularly important for planning on-site sanitation where a thin, unsaturated
zone of relatively low permeability overlies a fissured rock aquifer, e.g. in a karstic
(weathered limestone) area. As the unsaturated zone is where the majority of
microbial removal takes place, no direct source of contamination should come
into contact with the water-table at its highest level.
     The direction of flow of groundwater in an area will also influence the MSD.
As a general rule, shallow groundwater movement reflects surface topography;
sources of contamination should therefore be located downhill of drinking-water
sources wherever possible.
     The concentration of contaminating activities in the area concerned also
affects the MSD and is particularly important where on-site sanitation or
nonconventional sewage treatment is used. In areas where there are very large
numbers of sources of microbiological contamination, such as low-income urban
areas using on-site sanitation, there may be a build-up of nutrients in the
unsaturated zone and, possibly, the aquifer. This may increase the survival time
of microbes and so extend the MSD.
     It is often difficult to obtain hydrogeological data in rural areas, and in
community-based programmes it may not be possible to conduct thorough
surveys in each area. An MSD can still be determined, however, although it may
be less accurate than in other areas.
     When MSDs for an area are being established, the information that will be
required on the local soil and geology can be obtained by drilling or auguring to
the water-table and carefully recording changes in soil and rock type, particularly
changes in grain size, compaction, and the location of saturated layers. This
information should then be recorded in the form of a log in which soil and rock
type are plotted against depth. It is also important to carry out an infiltration test,
which will give an indication of the permeability in the area. If the supply is to be
a well, this can be done during test drilling (whether mechanical or by hand);
where other groundwater sources, such as springs, are to be used, the infiltration
test should be done in the surrounding area when the yield is tested.
     Combining information from the log with data from the infiltration test will
provide a good indication of the risk to the water source. Guidance on infiltration
tests, infiltration rates in different types of rock, and corresponding MSDs is
given in Annex 2.
     Precise demarcation and enforcement of protection zones are not easy, espe-
cially where low-volume abstraction, for instance by means of hand-pumps, is
practised. In these conditions, providing adequate sanitary protection of the
water source and its immediate environment is likely to be easier and more
effective. In much of this chapter, therefore, attention is focused mainly on the
technical interventions that may be used to reduce or remove the sanitary hazards
revealed by sanitary inspection on or close to the water-supply installation.

                                          91
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




6.3 Wells
6.3.1 Dug wells
Open or poorly covered well heads pose the commonest risk to well-water
quality, since the water may then be contaminated by the use of inappropriate
water-lifting devices by consumers. The most serious source of pollution is
contamination by human and animal waste from latrines, septic tanks, and farm
manure, resulting in increased levels of microorganisms, including pathogens.
Contamination of drinking-water by agrochemicals such as pesticides and
nitrates is an additional and increasing problem for small-community supplies ..
     Dug wells are generally the worst groundwater sources in terms of faecal
contamination, and bacteriological analysis serves primarily to demonstrate the
intensity of contamination and hence the level of the risk to the consumer.
As indicated in Annex 2, an on-site inspection can effectively reveal the
most obvious sources of contamination, and can be used to promote well-head
protection.
     Various types of hand-dug wells are shown in Fig. 6.2, ranging from poorly
protected to well protected; all types should be included by the surveillance
agency in the inventory. The upgrading of unprotected wells and the construc-
tion of protected wells for community use should be strongly promoted.
     Many tens of millions of families worldwide still depend on private and
public dug wells; technical assessment and improvement of these wells is therefore
very important. The commonest physical defects leading to faecal contamination
of dug wells are associated with damage to, or lack of, a concrete plinth, and with
breaks in the parapet wall and in the drainage channel. However, the most
hazardous gross faecal contamination is most commonly associated with latrines
sited too close to the well. Emergency relocation of either the latrines or the water
source is essential when such serious problems are encountered.
     An open dug well is little better than an unprotected hole in the ground if the
above-mentioned physical barriers to surface-water contamination are not regu-
larly maintained. The majority of open dug wells are contaminated, with levels of
at least 100 faecal coliforms per 100 ml, unless very strict measures are taken to
ensure that contamination is not introduced by the bucket. A community dug
well with a windlass whereby one bucket is suspended over the well in a narrow
opening is an improvement on each individual using his or her own bucket.
     Water quality should be greatly improved by the installation of a hand-pump
and the fitting of a sanitary cover to an open dug well, access being restricted by
a lockable sanitary lid, which prevents any contamination of the well by buckets.
However, even this relatively costly improvement may fail to reduce contamina-
tion significantly unless the well lining is made watertight down to the dry-season
water-table. If faecal contamination persists, the community may have to resort to
pot chlorination (see section 6.6.11), but this requires considerable organization
and management to be successful; effective physical protection of the source is
generally preferred.

                                         92
                                                6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




Fig. 6.2 Types of hand-dug wells




Unprotected waterhole                   Dug well w1th wmdlass




Open dug well                           Converted hand-pumped dug well




                                   93
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




    Occasionally the aquifer itself may be contaminated; in these circumstances
the only option may be to routinely disinfect the groundwater source or resort to
a deeper aquifer and mechanical pumping.


6.3.2 Hand-pumped and mechanically pumped wells
In about 85% of cases, shallow or deep tubewells with hand-pumps and proper
sanitary protection will supply water that contains few, if any, faecal indicator
bacteria. Where indicator bacteria are identified, the source of faecal contamina-
tion can usually be detected by an on-site sanitary survey at and around the well-
head (except where the aquifer itself is contaminated). Detailed checklists (see
Annex 2) for use in inspections have been drawn up for point-source supplies in
rural areas. Sanitary inspections are a useful monitoring tool and are sometimes
the only affordable means of identifYing water sources at risk of contamination.
     To ensure that the sanitary protection of a tubewell is adequate, a reinforced
concrete plinth should be built on to the well-head; its diameter should be greater
than that of the riser. The plinth should be sound and drained, and the hand-
pump should be located and sealed in it in a sanitary manner above the sur-
rounding plinth and ground level. A concrete apron should be laid around
the well-head and plinth, at least 2 metres in diameter and sloped towards the
drainage channel, which should run to a soakaway located away from the
tubewell. Additional sanitary protection should be provided by fencing the well
site to keep animals out.
     The area immediately surrounding the tubewell should be managed in such
a manner as to reduce the risk of contamination. Latrines should be located
downhill from the well and a minimum of 10 metres away from it, sources of
pollution, such as open dug wells, within 15-20 metres of the tubewell should be
filled in, and animals should be kept at least 10 metres away. It is difficult
to define protection zones for individual tubewells as the resources are rarely
available for a full study of the properties of the aquifer or for comprehensive
pumping tests.
     T ubewells sometimes show evidence of persistent contamination, even
though sanitary inspection has revealed few local hazards. This may be the result
of aquifer contamination, which is a particular problem where fissured geological
strata are combined with thin top soil, and is on the increase, notably in urban
and periurban areas. Under these conditions, it will be necessary either to disin-
fect the water supply continuously, or to locate a deeper aquifer, sink a deep
borehole, and use mechanical pumping. Mechanical pumping from a deep bore-
hole is a conventional technology more usually associated with urban settlements
and developed countries because of the operation and maintenance requirements.
The same principles of sanitary protection apply, and it is generally appropriate
to define protection zones for the borehole because the output is much higher
than that of a hand-pumped tubewell and can serve a greater population, the area



                                        94
                                                                    6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




of the aquifer exploited is correspondingly larger, and adequate resources are
more likely to be available.
     Drilling a borehole makes it possible to reach deep aquifers that are less likely
to be affected by pollutants originating from the land or surface waters. Water
from deep boreholes is normally free from microbiological contamination and
may be used by small communities without further treatment. However, certain
structural precautions are essential when wells and the associated pumps are
installed. The pump casing should extend approximately 30cm above ground
and downwards to the parent rock. Concrete aprons and platforms should be
constructed as for shallow wells, and the concrete sanitary seal should extend
down into the space (annulus) between the casing and the excavation.
     Figure 6.3 shows the sanitary protection below the pump of a deep borehole.
A sanitary inspection form for this type of installation is shown in Annex 2.




Fig. 6.3 Sanitary protection of a deep borehole
Notes. The well casmg extends down to the aqutfer, but the concrete sanitary seal only to
       a depth of 3 m. The platform (plinth) drains away from the well.




                                       F----'
                         Pump-----
                                       t-e
                                              \
                                                            ~   I
                                                                Pump outlet
                                                                ptpe




                                                  ~·   •.                      ;;.;
                                     ...                                       ~
                                                                               a
                                                                               ~
                ~------------~~-L------------~


                                             95
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




6.4 Springs
If a spring is to be used as a source of domestic water:
         it should be of adequate capacity to provide the required quantity and
         quality of water for its intended use throughout the year;
         it should be protected to preserve its quality.

    A spring encasement consists of the following features (see Fig. 6.4 and
Annex 2):
          spring box (watertight tank), which intercepts the source and extends
          downwards to an impermeable layer, or a system of collection pipes and
          a storage tank;
          a cover that prevents the entrance of surface drainage or debris into the
          storage tank;
          a protected overflow outlet;
          a connection to the distribution system or auxiliary supply;
          an impermeable layer (e.g. of concrete or puddled clay) behind the
          box and above the eye of the spring to prevent the infiltration of
          contaminants.
     Provision must be made for the cleaning of the tank and the emptying of the
contents.
     Exposed springs are vulnerable to contamination from human and animal
activities (see Figs 6.5 and 6.6). The usual method of protecting springs is to
collect the water where it rises by enclosing the eye of the spring in a covered



Fig. 6.4 Protected gravity spring



                                                  Inspection
                                                  manhole
                                                               A1r vent      Outlet


                                                                      Overflow

                                                                             Dram




                                                                                 WH096555

                                        96
                                                      6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




Fig. 6.5 Unprotected gravity spring




                                                             Spnng flow




                                                                              WHO 96556



Fig. 6.6 Unprotected artesian spring




                                                                              WHO 96551



chamber or box with an outlet near the bottom to allow water to flow away from
the original site of the spring; in this way the natural spring is disturbed as little
as possible. The exact procedure will depend on the type and site of the spring
(see Figs 6.4 and 6.7). The hillside must be excavated to a sufficient depth to tap

                                         97
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 6.7 Protected artesian spring




                                                                            WHO 96558


the aquifer even when the water level is low and, for a protected gravity spring, to
ensure that the collected water does not exert a back-pressure on the eye of the
spring. The intake structure should be designed, and the excavated area backfilled
with graded gravel, to prevent the inflow of sand and silt with the water into the
spring box; this will form the back wall of a gravity spring and the floor of an
artesian spring. The intake and gravel backfill should be covered by an imper-
meable cap (of concrete or puddled clay for example) to prevent surface-water
infiltration. To ensure that the collected water is not contaminated, an adequate
conduction pipeline and storage tank, if required, should be provided. The spring
box should have a lockable inspection cover. Air vents, drains, and overflows
should be fitted with mesh screens, and the whole structure surrounded by a ditch
to divert surface water (Fig. 6.4). A full sanitary inspection checklist is given in
Annex 2.
     Springs usually become contaminated when barnyards, sewers, septic tanks,
cesspools, or other sources of pollution are located on higher adjacent land.
In limestone formations, however, contaminated material frequently enters the
water-bearing channels through sink holes or other large openings and may
be carried along with groundwater for long distances. Similarly, if material
from such sources of contamination enters the tubular channels in glacial drift,
water may remain contaminated even after travelling for long distances.
     The following precautionary measures will help to ensure that spring water is
of a consistently high quality:
    Providing for removal of surface drainage from the site. A surface drainage
    ditch should be located uphill from the source so as to intercept surface-water

                                        98
                                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




    runoff and carry it away from the source. The location of the ditch and the
    points at which the water should be discharged are a matter of judgement,
    based on factors such as topography, subsurface geology, land ownership, and
    land use.
•   Constructing a fence to prevent the entry of livestock. The location of the
    fence should be selected in the light of the considerations mentioned above.
    The fence should exclude livestock from the surface-water drainage system at
    all points uphill of the source.
•   Providing for access to the tank for maintenance; unauthorized removal of
    the cover should be prevented by fitting a suitable locking device.
    Designing the cover in such a way as to prevent contamination from entering
    the storage tank.
•   Monitoring the quality of the spring water by means of periodic checks for
    contamination. A marked increase in turbidity or flow immediately after a
    rainstorm is a good indication that surface runoff is reaching the spring.
Water from a protected spring may be supplied to small communities either
directly or via a distribution system. Such systems may not be disinfected because
the water is bacteriologically safe and chlorination is expensive. Where spring-fed
water supplies do require disinfection, either because it is mandatory under local
legislation or because of inadequate quality, this is generally done on a continuous
basis: chlorine is added either as the water enters the conduction pipe from the
spring box, or as it leaves a storage tank to enter the distribution network.
     Artesian springs should be protected by a box with walls extending above
the maximum static head; a strong sanitary cover should also be provided. To
conserve water and increase the productivity of an artesian well, the casing must
be sealed into the confining stratum, otherwise water may be lost through leakage
into lower-pressure permeable strata at higher elevations. A flowing artesian well
should be designed so that the movement of water from the aquifer can be
controlled; water can be conserved if the well is equipped with a valve or shut-off
device. When the recharge area and aquifer are large, and only a small number of
wells penetrate the aquifer, the flowing artesian well produces a fairly steady flow
of water throughout the year.

6.5 Rainwater catchment
Rainwater collected from clean house roofs can be of better microbiological
quality than water collected from untreated household wells. When rain falls after
a long dry period, however, any rainwater collected may carry with it significant
amounts of contamination and debris which have accumulated on the roof and
in the gutters. It is therefore recommended that the water running off the roof
after the first storms of the season, and preferably for the first 5-10 minutes
afterwards or until it runs clear, should be discarded or used for purposes other
than drinking. Various devices are available for diverting this initial flow to waste
or secondary uses.

                                         99
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     The quality of the collected rainwater can also be improved by proper
maintenance of the roof and gutters, and careful cleaning at the beginning of
every wet season. Some form of mesh should be placed between the guttering and
the downpipe to prevent the entry of coarse debris; it then becomes important to
clean the screen regularly to prevent blockage. The worst fouling of roofs occurs
when they are situated under trees in which birds roost. In areas where malaria is
endemic, care should be taken to avoid creating pools of water that could become
breeding sites for mosquitos.
     A rainwater storage tank should be completely covered and well maintained.
If the cover is inadequate, lizards and geckos will enter and produce elevated
thermotolerant (faecal) coliform counts. A fine mesh fitted to all openings to the
tank will prevent the entry of organic debris. Water should be drawn off by a tap
located a little above the base of the tank. A sanitary inspection checklist for
rainwater tanks is given in Annex 2.


6.6 Water treatment
For small communities, it is generally preferable to protect a groundwater source
that requires little or no treatment than to treat surface water that has been
exposed to faecal contamination and is usually of poor quality. In many circum-
stances, however, surface water is the only practicable source of supply and
requires affordable treatment and disinfection. The range of treatments available
for small-community supplies is necessarily limited by technical and financial
considerations; the most appropriate and commonly used treatments are summa-
rized below. Installation of packaged treatment plants is not a suitable means of
dealing with the typical water-quality problems that prevail in rural areas.


6.6.1 Abstraction
The control measures required at the point of abstraction are determined to a
large extent by the characteristics of the source water and the particular water-
treatment method adopted. Screens are necessary where floating or large sus-
pended solids are present in the source water; these will require periodic cleaning.
Properly constructed intake channels or side weirs can be used to provide regular
lateral intake flows from a surface-water source. Sluice-gates and valves offer a
means of controlling flow but require regular maintenance and adjustment.
     When upstream flow depths are controlled by properly constructed over-
flows, use of weirs will provide relatively fine flow control with a minimum of
attention. For community supplies, the "V" notch angle required may be 45°,
instead of the more common 90°, to enable a reasonable upstream depth to be
achieved.
     Many of the major problems of community surface-water supply begin at the
point of abstraction; the following are the most common (see also Fig. 6.8 and
Annex 2).

                                        100
                                             6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




 Fig. 6.8 Surface water intake


                                         i   System 1ntake




                                                             We1r for flow
                                                             measurement
                                                             and control




                                                             Intake screen




                                                  Float1ng boom



                                                                     WH096559



A. Plan view


                                       Overflow              Water System
                                                             level intake

   Floating boom   ---l~l




                                                                     WH096560
B. Cross-section




                                 101
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




•   There is no weir across the stream or river, and at times of low flow there is
    insufficient water to supply the community.
•   There is no intake screen and consequently the intake is often blocked; this
    either causes interruptions in supply or allows large debris to pass on to the
    treatment plant.
•   There is no floating boom at the intake, and floating substances (oils, fats)
    therefore pass on to the treatment plant.
•   There is no flow control or the flow control is inappropriate or lacks an
    overflow.


6.6.2 Preliminary treatment by storage
Preliminary storage in a reservoir helps to guarantee a continuous supply of water
despite variations in demand and in source-water availability. It can also provide
an economical means of settling out some of the suspended solids.
     In areas affected by schistosomiasis, protected storage for a minimum of 48
hours provides a degree of safety: the cercariae are unable to infect a host and will
die. The numbers of other organisms can also be reduced in this way. If longer
retention times can be achieved, the numbers of microorganisms can be signifi-
cantly reduced, although this often requires storage for more than a week.
However, prolonged storage in uncovered reservoirs can encourage algal growth
and mosquito breeding. If the required storage volume is such that it is not
practicable to construct a covered reservoir, efforts must be made to avoid the
creation of habitats suitable for mosquitos, snails, or other organisms associated
with disease in the surrounding communities.


6.6.3 Plain sedimentation
Surface waters may contain sand, grit, silt, and other suspended solids which can
damage pumps, block filters, clog pipes and reduce the effectiveness of disinfec-
tion. Sedimentation helps to reduce suspended solids before treatment by
filtration and can remove significant numbers of harmful organisms from pol-
luted water. Fine silt or clay particles, however, are unlikely to be removed to any
significant extent in a sedimentation tank without the use of chemical coagula-
tion (see section 6.6.6).
     Grit or coarse suspended solids can be removed in a grit tank or channel
(coarse sedimentation tank) with a throughput velocity of less than 0.75 m/sand
a retention time of a few minutes. The amount of finer suspended matter can be
reduced by passing the water slowly through a settler or sedimenter (sedimenta-
tion tank), allowing time for it to settle out. Inlet, outlet, and internal baffle
arrangements should be designed to maximize the retention time in the tank. The
baffles should also assist in creating a regular flow pattern, without turbulence,
throughout the tank. Construction of the sedimentation tank must be such as to
permit routine desludging and cleaning operations to be carried out. The reten-

                                        102
                                                                             6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




tion time in a sedimentation tank is usually significantly shorter than that for a
storage reservoir, typically a few hours.
    The principal problems of plain sedimenters, which can lead to poor water
quality, are:
    Short-circuiting of the flow because of the absence or poor design of baffles.
•   Poor maintenance, leading to the accumulation of excessive amounts of
    sludge and consequent carry-over. A suitable design is shown in Fig. 6.9,
    which also indicates the key points to be checked during sanitary inspection.

    To ensure effective operation:
•   The inlet baffle wall of the sedimentation tank should be perforated so that
    water is introduced uniformly across the entire cross-section of the tank and
    rapid transit across the surface of the tank is avoided.
    The floor of the sedimenter should slope towards a sludge channel, which
    should in turn slope towards the washout valve. It is important to ensure that:
        the washout valve is of large diameter so that drainage is rapid;
    -   the valve is functional and greased;
    -   the floor of the tank is relatively clean after washout.

   The effectiveness of the sedimenter should be assessed by the following
means:

•   Checking the turbidity at the inlet and outlet. As a guideline, an ineffective
    sedimenter may reduce turbidity by less than 50% but an efficient one can
    achieve up to 90% reduction.
•   Checking the retention time. This is done by introducing sufficient salt at the
    inlet to increase the conductivity of a "plug" of water. The time taken for the

Fig. 6.9 Plain sedimentation tank

                                                            Perforated
                                                            (d1ffus1ng) baffle
    Inlet




Washout
valve




                        r_~ :-_-:. -_ -_-_-_-_   -----=- :_ :_::::


                                                                                                WH096561



                                                              103
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




    increased conductivity to be measurable at the outlet is measured, and a curve
    is plotted of conductivity at the outlet against time. In a well designed
    sedimenter, the increase in conductivity at the outlet should occur at least 2
    hours after the salt was introduced at the inlet. A minimum retention time of
    2 hours is essential for most types of water if removal efficiencies of greater
    than 50% are to be achieved.
    A by-pass pipe around the sedimenter is essential to ensure continuity of flow
during maintenance.

6.6.4 Prefiltration
In small treatment plants where the suspended solids content and turbidity of the
source water are continuously or periodically high, prefiltration with gravel or
other coarse material before sand filtration is an effective means of preventing the
rapid blocking of the sand filters. A typical prefilter consists of a tank divided into
several compartments filled sequentially with material of sizes ranging from very
coarse, e.g. 50-mm pebbles, in the upstream compartment to fine, e.g. gravel 6-
lOmm in diameter, in the downstream compartment. Raw water is passed
vertically or horizontally through the different compartments and is then col-
lected in an outlet chamber. If vertical flow is chosen, either upflow or downflow
is possible, but upflow filters are easier to clean and thus more likely to operate
effectively.
     Typical filtration rates for three-stage gravel prefilters are in the range
0.5-1 m 5Im2 per hour. The lower loading is appropriate for raw waters of periodi-
cally high turbidity (in excess of 80 NTU). In well operated prefilters, suspended
solids, turbidity, and microbiological contamination can be significantly reduced.
Prefilters require a "running-in" or ripening period, which may be of several
months' duration for raw waters with low nutrient levels, before they reach peak
operating efficiency. Care should be taken to cover the chambers or to keep water
levels below the top of the gravel fill; this not only prevents birds and other
animals from being attracted to the installation and fouling the prefilter, but also
prevents algal growth.
     In vertical upflow or downflow prefilters, periodic cleaning can be carried
out by means of a high-capacity drain assembly that can be opened to allow a
full filter to discharge rapidly to a waste channel. Horizontal-flow prefilters may
also be cleaned in the same manner but this is less effective and the filters
must periodically be emptied of gravel for cleaning; such prefilters are less
cost-effective.
     Prefilters will produce significant improvements in water quality when cor-
rectly designed and operated. They are particularly useful for small surface
supplies when slow sand filters are overloaded with silt, and they can be managed
by community caretakers if adequate support is provided by the water-supply
agency. During a sanitary inspection of a prefilter the following are the principal
points that should be checked:

                                         i04
                                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




•   Is the turbidity of the water leaving the prefilter less than 60 NTU?
    Is the flow rate of water through the filter medium controlled and appropri-
    ate for local conditions (e.g. in the range 0.5-1 m 3 /m 2 per hour)?
•   Is the effectiveness of turbidity removal by the prefilter in the range 70-90%
    when turbidity is greater than 100 NTU?
•   Is the prefilter routinely cleaned?
•   Is the cleaning effective? (This may be checked by taking a sample of gravel
    and estimating the amount of silt present by sieve analysis.)
    Are the filter and filtrate protected from recontamination by animals and
    birds?
    A vertical up flow gravel prefilter is shown in Fig. 6.1 0.


6.6.5 Slow sand filtration
Slow sand filtration improves the physical, chemical, and microbiological quality
of water; it is reliable and inexpensive, and is therefore particularly useful in
small-community water supplies.
     Slow sand filters consist of a bed of sand overlying a gravel support layer and
an underdrainage system. The depth of the sand filter bed is typically in the range
0.5-1.2m, varying as the sand is skimmed off from time to time to prevent
blocking on the upper surface. A sand bed depth of 0.5 m should be considered
the absolute minimum to ensure adequate treatment. When a bed has been
skimmed down to this depth it should be reconstructed using clean sand. The
sand skimmed from the top of the bed is generally used again after it has been
washed. The sand filter bed is submerged beneath supernatant (influent water) to
a depth of approximately 0.6-1.5 m. Where possible, slow sand filters should be
covered for protection from sunlight, which can promote the growth of algae.
Covers can also reduce the risk of fouling by birds and animals and (in cold
climates) of freezing.
     Slow sand filters are generally operated with filtration rates in the range 0.1-
0.3 m 3 /m 2 per hour and require a much larger area than a rapid gravity filter of
similar capacity. Filter sand should have a medium to coarse grading; sands
containing appreciable amounts of fine particles will be quickly blocked by
suspended solids in the influent flow. It is generally necessary to wash sand before
using it in a slow sand filter.
     The most significant feature of slow sand filtration is that the purification of
the influent is effected by microbiological means. A thin, slimy mat, known as the
schmutzdecke or filter skin, forms on the upper surface of the filter bed; this is
largely organic in character and biologically extremely active. Microorganisms in
the influent water are trapped and digested in the schmutzdecke, and are thus
significantly reduced in number. Water percolating downwards passes through a
biologically active zone of depth approximately 0.3-0.4m. Fine particles are
trapped on the sand grains, where microorganisms consume organic material,

                                        105
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




                                 106
                                                      6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




including pathogens in the influent and one another (predation). The overall
effect is a substantial reduction in the number of indicator bacteria and patho-
genic microorganisms in the water. In a well operated filter, the efficiency of
pathogen removal may exceed 99%. The efficiency of slow sand filtration may be
appreciably reduced at water temperatures below 6 °C.
     After a slow sand filter is cleaned, it takes some time before the schmutzdecke
is reestablished; with high-nutrient influent it may be a few days, but this may
extend to a few weeks if the nutrient content is low. During this time, water
should be allowed to flow through the filter, but it should not-ideally-be
supplied to consumers. Where possible, rwo slow sand filters should be con-
structed, so that one can continue to operate while the other is being cleaned.
     Slow sand filters should be operated at a constant flow rate and must never
be allowed to dry out during a filtration run. Raw-water turbidity should not
exceed 60 NTU for more than a few hours, since this leads to rapid blockage
and consequent inefficiency in operation. Thus the efficient functioning of slow
sand filters often depends on the filters being protected from high raw-water
turbidities, e.g. by means of prefilters.
     A typical slow sand filter design is shown in Fig. 6.11. The level of the
water outlet from the filter is higher than that of the sand bed in order to
avoid accidental drying of the bed due, for example, to an interruption in the
source flow. Drying of the bed will rapidly kill the organisms responsible for
purification.
     Sanitary inspection of slow sand filters should check the following principal
points:
•   Is the turbidity of the filtered water less than 5 NTU?
•   Is the flow rate of the water through the sand filter in the range 0.1-0.3
    m 3 /m 2 per hour and is it constant?
•   Is the turbidity of the water entering the slow sand filter consistently less than
    60 NTU?
•   Is the slow sand filter skimmed when necessary?
    Is the depth of the sand in the filter bed greater than 0.5 m?
•   Is the skimmed sand washed and stored in a sand store?
•   Is a minimum head device installed and does it prevent drying of the bed if
    the source flow is interrupted?

6.6.6 Coagulation, flocculation, and sedimentation
Fine suspended particles may be removed from water by dosing with chemicals
that cause formation of an absorbent, bulky precipitate. These chemicals are
known as coagulants and react with suspended particles to produce settleable
floes. Most coagulants are salts of iron or aluminium, e.g. aluminium sulfate
(alum) and ferric chloride. The nature of the floc depends mainly on the charac-
teristics of the raw water, the type of coagulant employed, and the dosing rate.
Rapid mixing is essential as soon as the coagulants are added to the water. After

                                        107
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 6. 11 Slow sand filter

     Overflow p1pe

      __[]_




                                                                                Outlet




          Graded gravel                            Flow-control
          support layers                           valve




mlXlng, microflocs start to form which, following a suitable period in a floc-
culator, aggregate into settleable and filterable macroflocs. These are removed by
secondary sedimentation in a clarifier, by filtration or by a combination of both
processes in series. The heavier the precipitate or floc, the quicker will be its rate
of settlement.
     Coagulants are generally added downstream of any pretreatment such as
screening or prefiltration that is designed to remove larger particles from the
source water. This then allows the coagulant to act more efficiently on the finer
particles.
     The coagulation, mixing, and flocculation tank generally takes the form of a
rectangular basin, the water flowing horizontally from one end of the tank to the
other. Floc settles in the lower levels of the tank, and a high-level outlet or weir
takes off the clear water (Fig. 6.12). Removal of the floc from the lower levels of
the tank may be effected by means of drains. Some clarifiers are constructed in the
form of an inverted pyramid, the water entering at the base and flowing upwards

                                        108
                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




                                          0
                                          Cil
                                          ::;
                                          (_)
                                          (_)
                                          0
                                          u::




..)(
 1::
s
·--
 1::
 0
.$!
 :'J
 (.,)
 (.,)                         DOl
                              -C
 0                            a.-
;;:;:                         <U~
        c                     a:E
"0                I       1
 1::    ~c
        :::Jo
 aJ     Ol.;::o
        <U:::J
 e)     o-
.s      u~            ;   I

-~
 E
 1::~


·--
 0
.$!
 :'J
g>
8
,_
C'lj

(()

-~
LL:



                               109
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




through the ever-widening tank with steadily decreasing velocity. A "sludge
blanket" forms at a position where the upward force of the flow balances the
downward force exerted on the floc by gravity. Clear water continues upwards, to
be taken off by high-level outlets; the accumulating sludge must be "bled off"
continuously to maintain the sludge blanket.
     The physicochemical characteristics of the raw water determine the choice
and quantity of coagulant required. These characteristics may vary with the
season so that periodic adjustment of coagulant dose may be required. The
problem most commonly encountered in coagulant treatment is incorrect choice
of dosing rate. It is therefore essential to carry out regular jar tests to determine
the optimum dose, taking into account fluctuations in turbidity or suspended
solids loadings, and any other relevant factors. Quality-control procedures should
also include the routine monitoring of turbidity and pH. The type and dose of
coagulant can usually be determined only by experimentation in the laboratory.
     During sanitary inspection, stocks of chemicals should be checked to ensure
that they are safely and correctly stored, properly dispensed, used in rotation, and
recorded in an inventory.
     Coagulation and flocculation require relatively large financial outlay on
plant, tanks, chemical dosing, and maintenance. Inevitably, therefore, the cost of
any water treated in this way is high. The technique may be of some value to
certain small communities, such as periurban fringe settlements, which can be
easily reached by maintenance personnel from the water supplier. Coagulation
may also be useful in helping to remove some chemical contaminants such as
fluoride. Generally, however, the technique is too difficult to apply and control
satisfactorily in most isolated rural communities.
     A sanitary inspection check list is included in Annex 2.


6.6. 7 Rapid sand filtration
In large treatment works, rapid sand filtration is frequently used after coagula-
tion-flocculation-sedimentation and before disinfection. It may also be used as a
prefiltration step before large-scale slow sand filtration. Rapid filtration can be
carried out in open tanks (rapid gravity sand filters) or closed metal tanks through
which the water passes under pressure (pressure filters). Rapid gravity filters
usually operate at filtration rates considerably higher than those typical of slow
sand filtration (about 4.0-5.0m 5 /m 2 filter area per hour). As a consequence, the
filters are considerably smaller in area for a similar throughput capacity. Coarse
sand is generally used in rapid gravity filters; multimedia filters (containing e.g.
very coarse anthracite particles above coarse sand) have been employed where it
has been necessary to protect against blocking of the surface of the filter by
straining. Rapid gravity filter beds are generally 0.6-1 .Om in depth with typical
particle diameters in the range 0.4-1 .Omm.
      Microbial removal rates in rapid gravity filters are low, but suspended solids
are removed quite efficiently. Filters are quickly blocked by surface straining or

                                        110
                                                       6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




excessive sedimentation in their upper layers. Cleaning must therefore be carried
out regularly (typically daily), and involves vigorous backwashing with water,
sometimes in combination with compressed air scour. When rapid gravity filters
are overloaded, breakthrough can occur within a very short time because of the
coarse nature of the media employed. If overloading is a problem, an increase
in backwashing frequency or plant capacity will be required. Mudballing and
cracking can occur in the filter bed if routine cleaning is not carried out in a
proper and effective manner.


6.6.8 Aeration
Aeration can be used in water treatment to reduce tastes and odours (e.g. by
oxidation of hydrogen sulfide), lower the levels of volatile organics, and alter the
concentrations of dissolved gases, although it has little appreciable effect on those
associated with algal growth. The aerators best suited for use in community
supplies are the cascade, multiple-tray, and packed-bed types, in which a thin film
of water flows over surfaces to maximize oxygen transfer into the water from the
surrounding air.


Cascade aerator
A cascade aerator consists of a stairway over which water flows in a very thin film.
Typically, the width and depth of each step is 10-15cm and the height 1-4m;
the head requirement for larger cascades can be a major design problem if
pumping is to be avoided.


Multiple-tray aerator
A multiple-tray aerator (see Fig. 6.13) comprises a series of trays formed by
perforated metal plates, metal screens, or wooden slats, arranged vertically above
one another in the form of a small tower. The individual trays contain a layer 15-
30 cm deep of stone, coke, or fired-day material 5-15 cm in size. Water is
delivered to the top of the multiple-tray assembly where it is either sprayed or
sprinkled from a perforated tank onto the top tray. Appropriate loading rates
should be determined by pilot plant trials, as the characteristics of water can vary
from one site to another and may also be subject to seasonal changes. Typical
loading rates are in the range 0.25-10 m 3 / m 2 of total effective tray area per hour.
    Air passes through the media, and open louvres are often inserted between
the trays to maximize the flow. In some extreme circumstances, mechanical
forced-draught ventilation may be employed to maintain the highest possible rate
of aeration in a particular installation. Performance can be badly affected by ice
formation during periods of freezing weather.
    Apart from aeration, multiple-tray aerators can also be used to remove the
iron present in some waters.

                                         Ill
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 6. 13 Multiple-tray aerator




Packed-bed aerators
A packed-bed aerator consists of a tower containing fired-day, ceramic, plastic,
stone, or coke media of particle size 5-15 cm and is generally used to strip volatile
organics from the water stream. Specialized media are available, including ce-
ramic cylinders or plastic in various shapes. Forced ventilation is required, and the
performance must be determined in a pilot plant before a full-scale installation is
constructed.

                                        112
                                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




     If the source water is rich in metals (some groundwaters contain iron, for
example), concentrations above 0.3 mg/litre may produce detectable taste and
odour. Furthermore, water containing iron may cause stains when used for
laundry, accumulations of iron precipitates in the pipework of the distribution
system, and the growth of Crenothrix bacteria. Packed-bed aerators can be used
to remove iron, which is deposited on the media. Manganese removal is more
difficult to accomplish and must be carried out at a pH greater than 9, and
combinations of metals can also be difficult to remove. The addition of strong
oxidizing agents, such as chlorine, ozone, or potassium permanganate, can assist
in the deposition process.
     As with multiple-tray aerators, the performance of packed-bed aerators can
be badly affected by ice formation if periods of freezing weather are experienced.


6.6.9 Fluoride removal
Fluoride can occur naturally or may be added to drinking-water during treat-
ment. A fluoride concentration of around 1 mg/litre can help to reduce the
incidence of tooth decay, but concentrations above 1.5 mg/litre may cause
browning of teeth; very high concentrations may cause skeletal fluorosis.
    High fluoride levels, for example in groundwaters, are locally common in
some areas of the world, and in most such circumstances it may be more practical
and cost-effective to use alternative water sources. However, fluoride can be
removed from water by filtering through bone char, which can subsequently be
regenerated, and this approach has been adopted for some small-community
water supplies.
    Addition of fluoride to drinking-water supplies to reduce the incidence of
dental caries should be closely monitored to ensure that safe levels are not
exceeded. The fluoride is generally added in the form of a solution, both fot
convenience and because powders are toxic and require special handling arrange-
ments. Hydrofluosilicic acid provides a suitable solution for this purpose, al-
though the normal precautions required in the handling of acids must then be
taken and appropriate equipment is required.


6.6.1 0 Control of nitrites and nitrates
The presence of either nitrites or nitrates in drinking-water is a matter of concern
from the point of view of human health, since there is evidence that they may
cause methaemoglobinaemia in infants. Nitrites and nitrates are present in sur~
face waters mainly as a result of the oxidation of ammonia in sewage effluents and
the excessive use of nitrate fertilizers in farming. Nitrite can occur as an interme-
diate stage in the oxidation of nitrogen to nitrate. Nitrates in groundwaters are
often reduced to nitrites.
    Algal assimilation can significantly reduce nitrate levels in surface waters.
Seasonal variations in nitrate levels in rivers and streams are likely to occur for

                                        113
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




reasons associated with changes in the overall levels of biological activity in the
water.
     There is no water treatment method for reducing nitrite and nitrate levels
that is both convenient and generally appropriate for small-community water
supplies. Consideration should therefore be given to the protection of water
sources, particularly where the principal sources of contamination are the agricul-
tural use of fertilizers or wastewater and sewage discharges. If seasonally high
levels are experienced in a river source, it may be possible to blend water from lake
or groundwater sources with the surface water to achieve the required quality.
Bankside reservoir storage can provide an opportunity to close intakes when high
peaks in river nitrate levels are expected. Algal activity in reservoirs can reduce
nitrate levels significantly, aided by the denitrif}ring activities of bacteria in the
bottom silt layer.


6.6.11 Disinfection
The microbiological quality of drinking-water can be substantially enhanced by
protecting the source and by treating the raw water, especially if slow sand
filtration is employed. However, where raw waters are not of a consistently high
quality, some form of disinfection is essential to ensure that the supply is micro-
biologically safe. Provided that the physical and chemical quality of the water
is acceptable, disinfection provides the most effective means of reducing the
numbers of microorganisms in drinking-water.
     Disinfection methods may be either physical or chemical. Physical methods
include boiling and ultraviolet (UV) irradiation; chemical methods include
the addition of ozone, or, most commonly, chlorine and its derivatives. Only
chlorination has been widely applied in treating community water supplies,
although UV irradiation is also sometimes appropriate, as is on-site generation of
disinfectant gases.
     Chlorine is an oxidizing agent that reacts rapidly with organic and inorganic
matter present in water. If adequate disinfection is to be achieved, due allowance
must be made for the chlorine consumed in these reactions in addition to that
needed for disinfection. The amount of chlorine required to react with other
compounds (mainly ammonia, some metal ions, and organic compounds) is
termed the chlorine demand of the water. Thus, the chlorine dose must be
sufficient both to satisfY the chlorine demand and to produce an unreacted excess
known as the free residual. A minimum free residual of 0.5 mg/litre is recom-
mended, together with a minimum contact time of 30 minutes and a water
turbidity of less than 5 NTU (ideally less than 1 NTU). The chlorine demand of
some waters (particularly river waters) can increase dramatically at times of heavy
pollution, particularly after rain. It may therefore be necessary to increase the dose
to allow for this. The residual chlorine level should be determined (see Annex 9)
in samples taken from various points throughout the distribution system, to
ensure that a free residual exists in the water supplied to the public.

                                         114
                                                    6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




    Chlorination usually requires the addition of one of the following three
substances to the water:
•   Chlorine gas, Cl2 , liquefied under a pressure of 505kPa (5 atm). This requires
    careful handling because it is highly toxic: the gas supplier should provide
    clear operational guidelines and the surveillance officer should check that
    these are being strictly observed.
•   Sodium hypochlorite solution for water disinfection, containing up to 14%
    available chlorine, or liquid bleach (about 1% available chlorine). Solutions
    are unstable at warm temperatures and should be stored in brown or green
    glass bottles or opaque plastic bottles in a cool, dark place. They should be
    checked regularly to ensure that the chlorine content is adequate since the
    concentration may fall if the container has been opened or stored for a long
    time.
•   Solid calcium hypochlorite, commonly available as bleaching powder or
    chlorinated lime, containing about 30% available chlorine when fresh. The
    compound is unstable at warm temperatures and should be carefully stored.
    High-test hypochlorite (HTH) can also be used; it normally contains 50-
    70% available chlorine.
    Simple devices for use in chlorination include the constant-head drip and
double-pot chlorinators; typical examples are shown in Figs 6.14 and 6.15,
respectively.


6.6.12 Water-treatment plants
The only proven method of treating polluted surface water by means of
simple equipment is based on the multiple-barrier principle, i.e. on the use of
at least three unit treatment processes in series which progressively remove
pathogens and other contaminants (notably turbidity). The technology is robust
and has the advantage that failure of any one barrier should not significantly
increase the risk of transmission of infectious waterborne disease. A typical
multiple-barrier series of unit processes is shown schematically in Fig. 6.16, and
includes:
         plain sedimentation
         triple-stage gravel prefiltration
         slow sand filtration
         disinfection.
     The two main parameters determining the selection and performance of
treatment plants are the thermotolerant (faecal) coliform count per 100 ml and
the turbidity. These should be reduced so that, however many unit processes are
employed, the water leaving the plant always has a zero thermotolerant (faecal)
coliform count and turbidity below 5 NTU. These treatment objectives have
been incorporated into Table 6.2 to show the required performance of the unit
processes considered appropriate for community water supply.

                                       115
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 6. 14 Constant-head drip chlorinator


                                                                                      ,LJ
Float

        --
         [j~
                1--

                                           ~
                                                                  /Ortf1ce




                                              .
                                              .___
                                               i--
                                           ;..____
Hypoch lor1te                              ::-----
solut1on
        -                               .
                                         .:             .\.
                                                                                      :g
                                                                                      i§l
                                                                                      a
                                       :                                              ~
                                   ..                         .:::::-
                                                                        -             lt
                                                                                            To dosm g
                                   :                                                        po1nt
                               .
                               :
                              :



                  l      :i
                        .f                                              CJ

                                                               Orifice for entry of
                                                               hypochlonte solut1on




6. 7 Household water treatment and storage
Where the source of water used by a community is unprotected and/or untreated,
or when the water supply is contaminated, household water may require treat-
ment in the home to ensure that it is safe for consumption. Household treatment
and hygienic storage can improve the aesthetic quality of water (turbidity, tem-
perature, etc.) and reduce faecal contamination, but its use to improve chemical

                                                  116
                                                      6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




Fig. 6. 15 Double-pot chlorinator


                                           ....---Support rope



 -

  -----~==----~~~~----~----~~~--=-~
               .AV          ""'   / Polyethylene sheet
                        L-                          ~        ./




     -
Table 6.2 An example of performance objectives for removal of
          turbidity and thermotolerant coliform bacteria in small-
          scale water treatment
Stage and                      Turbidity           Thermotolerant coliform bacteria
process
                       Removal Average Maximum Removal   Average      Maximum
                         (%)   loading loading   (%)     loading       loading
                                (NTU)   (NTU)          (per 100 ml) (per 100 ml)

Pla1n sed1mentat1on      50        60       600       50          1000      10000
Gravel pref1lters        80        30       300       90           500       5000
   (3-stage)
Slow sand f1lter         >90        6        60       95           50         500
Dis1nfect1on             NN        <1        <5      >99 9        <3           25
D1stnbuted water         NN        <1        <5      NN           <1          <1

' NA, not applicable
                                           117
                                                                                                     Gl
                                                                                                     c
                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                     'z
                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                     (f)
                                                                                                     ..,.,
                                                                                                     0
     Fig. 6.16 Typical multistage treatment system for small-community supplies                      Il
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     Il
                                                                                                     z
                                                                                                     2S
                                                                                                     z
                                                                                                     Gl
                R1ver
                source                                                                               ~
                                                                                                     ~
                                Three-stage upflow                                                   m
                                                                                                     Il
                  Abstraction   aravel orefllt                                        To             0
                                                         ~
                                                                                      contact tank   c
                                                                                                     )>




                :[}
                                                                                 ~age and            '
CD                                                                               ~trlbUtiOn          ::!
                                  ~       ~          -
                                                         4                       Disinfectant
                                                                                 dOSing
                Sed1mentat1on                                Slow sand filters
                or dynamic
                prefllter




     WH096567
                                                    6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




quality is uncommon; this section therefore deals only with reducing the faecal
contamination of drinking-water to prevent the transmission of infectious
waterborne diseases.
     In many situations water must be transported, often carried, from a well,
spring, or standpost to households. In these circumstances and where the water
supply to the household is intermittent, water must be stored in the home to
ensure that enough is available when it is needed. Water that is transported or
stored unhygienically may be recontaminated, which represents a public health
risk; water supplied at the well or standpost may be microbiologically safe but
become grossly contaminated with faecal material before consumption because of
poor handling. A surveillance programme should therefore include the testing of
water stored in the household to establish whether recontamination is occurring.
     If drinking-water regularly becomes recontaminated, the best remedial action
is a hygiene education programme. This should involve all the community but
focus particularly on those members with most responsibility for water collection,
storage, and treatment (usually women and children). Most recontamination is
the result of behavioural patterns; if these can be changed, the health risk can
be reduced or eliminated. Technical interventions (like those described below)
may also be used, but are unlikely to result in any significant reduction in
recontamination without a complementary hygiene education programme.
Hygiene education is dealt with in Chapter 7.


6.7.1 Household water treatment
Where local water supplies are known to be contaminated or have not been
tested, household treatment should generally be recommended. Faecally con-
taminated water can be treated by:
         boiling
         filtration
         chemical disinfection
         cloth filtration (to prevent dracunculiasis).


Boiling
Boiling is a simple way of killing any ova, cysts, bacteria, and viruses present in
contaminated water. Water should be heated until it comes to a "rolling boil"
(large bubbles continuously coming to the surface of the water) which is main-
tained for 1 minute. Water boils at a lower temperature as altitude increases, and
1 minute of extra boiling time should therefore be added for every 1000 metres
above sea level. Boiling has the following disadvantages:
•   Large amounts of fuel are required, so that cost may prevent people from
    boiling water in many areas.
•   It may give an unpleasant taste to the water which may be unacceptable .

                                       119
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




•   Very hot water can cause accidents in the home.
•   Boiled water can become recontaminated once it has cooled.


Simple household filters
There are many different types of household filter, some produced commercially
and others that can be manufactured locally. Most will remove a high proportion
of solids and silt. Many will also remove parasites including cysts, ova, and guinea
worm larvae, but some simple filters may not remove all microorganisms from
water. The various types of simple household filter are candle, stone, and sand
filters.
      Candle filters are often commercially produced. In this type of filter, contami-
nated water is allowed to filter slowly through a porous ceramic material (see Fig.
6.17). Larger microorganisms-ova, cysts, and most bacteria-are left in the
outer layer of the filter material, which is periodically cleaned by gently scrubbing
the filter under clean, running water. Smaller microorganisms, such as the virus
that causes hepatitis A, may not be removed by candle filters.
      Candle filters should be designed to minimize the risk of recontamination of
water after filtering. Most commercial filters consist of two interlocking contain-
ers. The upper container for the candle(s), into which the raw water is poured, is
usually fitted with a lid. The base of this container fits securely onto the top of the
lower container; an overlapping lid prevents recontamination of the filtered
water. The lower container, which collects the filtered water, is fitted with a tap
near the base to allow hygienic withdrawal of the water.
      It is important that the manufacturer's instructions for cleaning and the safe
life span of the filter should be carefully followed.
      Stone filters are similar to candle filters but are carved from porous local
stone (see Fig. 6.18). They are generally difficult to clean and heavy to lift,
but have the advantage of being relatively inexpensive if they can be produced
locally. If these filters are commonly used in a particular area, it would be
worthwhile to test water from a representative sample to determine the efficiency
of removal of faecal contamination. Filtered water is generally collected in an
open vessel, often close to the ground, so that there is a significant risk of
recontamination.
      Sandfilters should not be confused with the slow sand filters discussed earlier
in this chapter, which are very efficient at removing microorganisms from con-
taminated water. A slow sand filter would be difficult to operate in a household
as it requires a continuous and constant flow of water if it is to function
effectively. Household sand filters (see Fig. 6.19) will remove solid material from
water and often ova, larvae, cysts, and Cyclops spp. Because bacteria and viruses
are not removed, additional treatment, such as disinfection (usually with chlo-
rine), may be desirable after filtration.
      Removal ofturbidity. When water is extremely turbid, it may be necessary to
remove some of the particulate matter before the water is passed through a filter

                                         120
                                                                           6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




in order to avoid blockage. Pretreatment, either by settling or coagulation, will
often also help to reduce faecal contamination to some extent.
•   Settling. If turbid water is left in a closed container for several hours, e.g .
    overnight, a proportion of the suspended matter will settle to the bottom.
    The clearer water can then be decanted from the top and poured into a filter.
•   Coagulation. Turbid water can be settled more rapidly and effectively if a
    chemical coagulant is used to make the suspended particles stick together.




Fig. 6. 17 Candle filter

                                            ~

                    I r,::=:J                                        ~

                                                                                  -
                            --                 f:~
                                            :~ f:~:

                                                   ::~

                            _-::::...              ~~:   r---
                                                                           -
                            ~
                             ~




                                 =-~ ~~
                                                                -          -
                                                                .....-:::::::::


                        ~                          p                              ))
                                        0


                                               ~
                                                   ~



                                                                      ~
                             ~




                    "'~
                    a
                    ~
                                                                                  ~
                            '-

                                                     121
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




   The dose of alum required will depend on the turbidity of the water and
   should be selected on the basis of local experience whenever possible. Certain
   indigenous plants can also be used to make suspended particles stick together,
   and in some areas such natural coagulants are widely and successfully used.
   So many different plants are used for this purpose in different parts of the
   world that no general recommendations can be made. Local experience and
   practice should be investigated and used as a guide.



Fig. 6. 18 Stone filter




                                 6              6




                                      122
                                                      6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




Disinfection
If water is contaminated but clear, disinfection can be used to kill the microor-
ganisms it contains. Using chlorine for this purpose will provide a disinfecting
residual that will help to prevent recontamination.
     Of the various ways of disinfecting household drinking-water, the common-
est is to use chlorine. A 1% solution of chlorine is often used, in the form of
sodium hypochlorite (liquid bleach), calcium hypochlorite (generally as a pow-
der), or HTH (high-test hypochlorite in powdered form); see also p. 115.
     Chlorine is a hazardous substance. It is highly corrosive in concentrated solution
and splashes can cause burns and damage the eyes. Appropriate precautions should
be taken when concentrated chlorine solutions or powders are handled. If the eyes
or skin are splashed, they should immediately be rinsed thoroughly with water.
Solid forms are less hazardous to handle during transport than solutions. It is
good practice to wash the hands after handling concentrated chlorine in any
form. All containers in which chlorine is stored should carry a label clearly
identifying the contents and including a hazard warning in a form that is readily
understandable locally. Storage sites for chlorine in any form should be secure,
and special precautions should be taken to prevent access by children.


Fig. 6. 19 Household sand filter




                                         123
 GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




       Where drinking-water is to be both disinfected and filtered, disinfection
 should follow filtration; otherwise the disinfectant may be neutralized by the
 filter. Disinfection is less effective in turbid or cloudy water as the chlorine can be
 consumed by the suspended particles in the water; particulate matter may also
 protect bacteria from the disinfectant action of chlorine.



 Fig. 6.20 Method of preparing chlorine solutions using local
           materials




                   +

                                                                                                         ~
                            ~                   0
                                                                                                         ill
                                                                                                         0

~--------------------------~~                           ~------------------~--L---__J~
  Fill two bottle tops, or one level teaspoon           2 Cork the bottle and m1x well for 2 m1nutes
  w1th chlonne powder (HTH). put 1nto a                   Leave to stand for 1 hour
  small dnnk bottle (about 300 ml) and add
  clean water to the top




                                                ~
                                                i§l
                                                0

~--------------------------~~
3 Now you have the same chlor1ne as                     4 Add 3 drops of the chlor1ne solut1on for
  household bleach. Put 1t 1n a dark place                every litre of water Leave for 1 hour, then
  away from Children.                                     taste. You should JUSt be able to taste the
                                                          chlonne If you cannot taste 1t, add 1 drop
                                                          per l1tre until you can. The water w1ll only
                                                          be safe to dnnk for 24 hours.


                                                      124
                                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




    Sodium hypochlorite solution can be used directly to disinfect household
drinking-water as its chlorine concentration is already 1%; calcium hypochlorite
and HTH need to be diluted to this concentration before use. The quantity of
powder used will depend on the concentration of chlorine present. Community
members should employ locally available and familiar containers and units of
measurement. An example of a method of preparing chlorine solutions which has
been used successfully is shown in Fig. 6.20.

Cloth filtration to prevent guinea-worm disease
Guinea-worm disease (dracunculiasis) is transmitted via contaminated drinking-
water (e.g. from stagnant ponds, cisterns, or step wells). The disease occurs in a
number of countries in Africa and Asia and causes severe suffering and disability
among the world's most deprived people. Infected individuals do not develop
immunity. There is no known animal reservoir, and people can disseminate the
parasite 1 year after infection and during 1-3 weeks after emergence of the worm.
For these reasons and because control of transmission, including treatment of
drinking-water, is simple, global eradication of this disease is feasible.
     Dramatic reductions in the prevalence of dracunculiasis have been achieved
through improvement of water supplies and by promoting proper hygiene in
areas where the disease is endemic. In such areas, guinea worm (DracuncuLus
medinensis) can be effectively eliminated by filtering all drinking-water through
fine cloth (see Fig. 6.21). Filtration of drinking-water is thus a primary strategy
for the control of guinea-worm disease.
     Filters should be of mesh size less than 130 Jlm; this should remove all
infected intermediate hosts. Monofilament synthetic cloth (nylon) is most suit-
able because it clogs less rapidly and is easily cleaned; it has a mesh size of 100-
130 Jlm. Cotton cloth can be used but tends to clog rapidly. Boiling is also
effective as a means of controlling the disease.

6.7.2 Household water storage
The principal health risk associated with household water storage is the ease of
recontamination during transport and storage, particularly where the members of
a family or community do not all follow good hygiene practice. Good hygienic
measures include the following:
        careful storage of household water and regular cleaning of all household
        water-storage facilities;
        construction, proper use, and maintenance of latrines;
        regular hand-washing, especially after defecation and before eating or
        preparing food;
        careful storage and preparation of food.
    Water that is clean from the supply or has been treated in the household
needs to be protected from recontamination. The following precautions and
considerations are important:

                                        125
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. 6.21 Pouring water through a monofilament filter to control
          transmission of guinea worm




•   Location of storage vessel. The storage vessel should be placed above ground
    level to restrict access by children and animals. It should preferably be placed
    in a shaded position to keep the water cool, and should be accessible to users
    and for refilling.

                                       126
                                                     6 TECHNICAL INTERVENTIONS




•   Design of storage vessel. The storage vessel should be designed to reduce the
    risk of contamination: it should have a secure, tight-fitting lid, be robust
    enough to withstand rough handling without cracking, and be easy to lift
    from the ground and carry back to the storage point after filling. Stored water
    may be kept cool by using earthenware jars or pots; these allow some water
    to evaporate, which has a cooling effect. Containers should be easy to fill and
    clean, so that contact with hands is minimized.
•   Removal of water. It should be possible to remove water from the container
    hygienically, with no contact between hands and the water. Water is com-
    monly withdrawn by means of a cup. This may be acceptable where the cup
    is not used for any other purpose, is cleaned regularly, and is stored where
    contamination cannot occur. However, as it is difficult to dip the cup into
    the water without also putting in the hands, the risk of contamination is still
    high. It is better to use a ladle that is stored permanently inside the container;
    this reduces the risk of contamination while the ladle is not in use. However,
    the ladle should be used only to transfer water to a cup or other vessel.
    Drinking from it directly may cause contamination of the water. The ladle
    should be held only by the top of the handle and not by the scoop or any part
    that is immersed in the water during storage. Fitting a tap to the container
    minimizes contact with the water and is the most hygienic method of
    withdrawal. However, users must not wipe the tap with dirty hands or hang
    cups, etc. from the tap as this increases the risk of contamination before
    consumption. Taps are expensive, may be difficult to fit on traditional
    containers, and may also weaken the container.

    Substances such as petrol, diesel fuel, pesticides, and solvents should not be
stored or used near water facilities (sources, catchments, storage tanks, etc.).
Containers that have been used for the storage, transport, or handling of these
substances should not subsequently be used to store water intended for human
consumption, even after thorough cleaning.
    The most important elements of water storage can be summarized as follows:

•   Use a clean water source or treat the water, either at home or in a storage
    tank.
•   Store water in an earthenware or plastic container with a lid.
•   Store the water container at a height that puts it beyond the reach of children
    and animals.
•   Fit a tap to the container for drawing clean water in order to prevent
    contamination by dirty cups, ladles, or hands.


6.7.3 Storage tanks
Where a piped water supply to the household operates intermittently, a storage
tank is commonly used to ensure that there is sufficient water for the family needs
throughout the day. The tank should be covered to prevent contamination of the

                                        127
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




water and to restrict access by children and animals. It may be located inside or
outside the house, but a secure cover should be fitted to an outdoor tank.
     If the water running into the tank is clean (i.e. comes from a protected source
or a treatment plant), the tank should be inspected, cleaned, and disinfected at
least once a year. Where the water supplied is not clean, the tank will require
more frequent cleaning, the frequency depending on the water quality. Water of
poor quality should be treated by the most appropriate means.
     The pipes running from a household storage tank to the taps must not be
made of lead, which is toxic; pipes made of galvanized iron, copper, or plastic
(such as potable grade PVC) should be used instead. Galvanized iron pipes should
not be used where the water supplied is highly acidic or alkaline because they will
corrode. A non-lead solder should be used, where possible, to join metal pipes,
and a nontoxic solvent cement for plastic pipes. The system should be thoroughly
flushed before use to remove any traces of solvent or metal solder from the pipes.
     When a household storage tank and pipes for drinking-water are installed,
they should ideally be filled with water containing 50 mg/litre of chlorine and left
to stand overnight so that the system is disinfected before use.




                                        128
7.
Hygiene education


7.1 Scope of hygiene education
7.1.1 Community-based surveillance
Effective and sustainable programmes for the surveillance of water supplies re-
quire the active support of local communities, which should be involved at all
stages in such programmes, including initial surveys; monitoring and surveillance
of water supplies; reporting faults, carrying out maintenance, and taking remedial
action; and supportive actions including sanitation and hygiene practices. This
will involve setting up a comprehensive educational programme to ensure that
the communiry:
         is aware of the importance of water quality and its relation to health, and
         of the need for safe water supplies;
         accepts the importance of surveillance and the need for a community
         response;
         understands and is prepared to play its role in the surveillance process;
         has the necessary skills to perform that role.


7.1.2 Hygiene behaviours
The provision of a good drinking-water supply alone is insufficient to ensure
health. There are many stages in the collection, storage, and handling of food, the
disposal of excreta, and the care of children at which drinking-water can become
contaminated and the communiry exposed to pathogens in excreta.
     Children, especially those under 5 years of age, are particularly vulnerable to
diarrhoea. A common belief is that children's faeces are harmless, whereas in fact
they are the main source of infection of other children. Parents may not hygieni-
cally dispose of their young children's faeces, young children may not use latrines,
and the yards surrounding homes are often contaminated.
     There are many transmission routes for water-related and sanitation-related
diseases, and hygiene education can therefore cover a wide range of actions. The
most important behaviours from the point of view of health will depend on the
community, the disease pattern, and the climate. One of the functions of the
initial field inspection and surveillance (see Chapters 1 and 2) is to determine
which behaviours the hygiene educational programme should seek to promote in
the community (see Table 7.1).

                                        129
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 7. 1 Behaviours to be recommended in hygiene education
Water source:
•   All children, women, and men 1n the commun1ty should use safe water sources for
    drink1ng and food preparat1on
•   Adequate water should be used for hyg1ene purposes such as bathing, household
    cleanliness, and clothes wash1ng
•   Water should be eff1c1ently used and not wasted Wastewater should be properly
    dra1ned away
•   Improved water sources should be used hygienically and be well ma1nta1ned
•   There should be no nsk of contam1nat1on of water sources from nearby latnnes,
    wastewater dra1nage, cattle, or agncultural chem1cals
Water treatment:
•   Simple punf1cat1on procedures, e g chlonnat1on, should be earned out on the water
    source 1f necessary
•   If necessary, water should be filtered to remove any solid mater1al, gu1nea worm, etc
    (see section 6 7 1)
Water collection:
•   Dnnk1ng-water should be collected 1n clean vessels Without com1ng 1nto contact w1th
    hands and other matenals
•   Water should be transported in a covered conta1ner
Water storage:
•   Water should be stored 1n vessels that are covered and regularly cleaned
•   Dnnk1ng-water should be stored 1n a separate conta1ner from other domestic water
    wherever poss1ble
Water drinking:
    Dnnk1ng-water should be taken from the storage vessel 1n such a way that hands,
    cups, or other objects cannot contam1nate the water
Water use:
•   Adequate amounts of water should be available and used for personal and domestic
    hyg1ene (lt IS est1mated that a m1n1mum of 30-40 l1tres per person per day are
    needed for personal and domestiC hyg1ene)
Food handling:
•   Hands should be washed w1th soap or ash before food IS prepared or eaten
    Vegetables and fru1ts should be washed w1th safe water, and food should be
    properly covered
•   Utens1ls used for food preparation and cook1ng should be washed w1th safe water as
    soon as possible after use and left 1n a clean place
Excreta disposal:
•   All men, women, and children should use latnnes at home, at work, and at school
    The stools of Infants and young children should be safely disposed of
    Household latnnes should be s1ted 1n such a way that the p1t contents cannot enter
    water sources or the groundwater table
•   Hand-wash1ng fac111t1es and soap or ash should be available, and hands should
    always be washed after defecation and after help1ng babies and small children
Wastewater disposal:
•  Household wastewater should be d1sposed of or reused properly Measures should
   be taken to ensure that wastewater 1s not allowed to create breed1ng places for
   mosquitos and other d1sease vectors or to contaminate safe water


                                          130
                                                              7 HYGIENE EDUCATION




7.2 Planning hygiene education
Planning hygiene education in a community involves the following steps:
         dialogue with the community and local agencies;
         selection of priority hygiene behaviours to be changed, based on surveil-
         lance data and felt needs within the community;
         analysis of influence on selected behaviours and the implications for
         hygiene education.
     Preparation of an action plan for hygiene education requires answers to the
following questions:

•   How will community participation be mobilized?
•   Who should the education be directed at (target group)?
•   What should the content of the education be?
•   Who should carry out the hygiene education?
•   What educational methods should be used?
•   What support should be provided by the surveillance agency?


7.2.1 Community participation and empowerment
The importance of community participation has been stressed in earlier chapters.
Hygiene behaviours are particularly difficult to change because they relate to daily
activities, they are shared by the whole community, and they form part of the
culture and traditions of the community. The improvement of water supply,
sanitation, and hygiene should be seen as part of an overall process of community
development. It is important, therefore, to work with the whole community and
particularly with schoolchildren, and to involve them in all stages of hygiene
education, including selecting priority hygiene behaviours, understanding the
influences on such behaviours, selecting educational methods, and implementa-
tion. The educational methods used should be those that strengthen and em-
power individuals and communities to work for change.
     There are no set rules for developing a community participation programme,
but the stages described in Table 7.2 are common to many such programmes.
     The community may already be highly organized and taking action on health
issues. If so, only a few visits by surveillance field staff will be needed to introduce
the concepts of surveillance and involve the community in the surveillance
programme. However, it may be that there is no well developed structure, that
sections of the community, such as women, are poorly represented, and that there
are disagreements or factional conflicts. In this situation, achieving community
participation will take more time and require many visits by field staff to bring
people together, resolve differences, agree on common aims, and take action.
Even after the community starts to become involved, further visits, possibly over
several years, will be needed to provide support and encouragement, and ensure
that the structures created continue to operate.

                                          131
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table 7.2 Stages in the community participation process
Getting to know the community:
•    learn1ng about the community, 1ts structure and leadership pattern
•    1n1t1al contacts w1th families, leaders and commun1ty groups
•    dialogue and d1scuss1on on concerns and felt needs

Organization building:
•    strengthening of community organ1zat1on
     establishment of new structures, e g water committees, women's groups
•    educational act1v1t1es w1th1n commun1ty structures
•    dec1s1on-mak1ng on pnont1es
•    selection of commun1ty members for tra1n1ng as water leaders

Initial actions:
•    act1on by the commun1ty on achievable short-term goals that meet felt needs and
     bnng the community together
•    reflect1on on 1n1t1al act1v1t1es
•    sett1ng of pnor1t1es for future act1v1t1es

Further actions:
•    act1v1t1es 1n wh1ch the commun1ty takes a greater share of responsibility for deciSion-
     making and management




7.2.2 Selection of behaviours to be changed
It is better to concentrate on a small number of behaviours than to attempt to
influence all the hygiene behaviours listed in Table 7.1. The behaviours chosen
should be selected on the basis of probable public health benefit to the commu-
nity. Some of the questions that will need to be asked in order to determine
priorities include the following:
•    What is the evidence that the behaviour represents a problem in the commu-
     nity?
•    Which behaviour changes will have the greatest impact on improving health?
•    Which hygiene behaviours will be the easiest to change?
•    What are the specific requirements of the water-supply and sanitation sys-
     tems that are being promoted in the community?
•    What are the felt needs and priorities of the community?
    It is best to concentrate on those hygiene practices shown by the surveillance
to be a priority for remedial action in the community concerned; these should be
the practices which are likely to be of the greatest benefit to health. However,
greater efforts will be required to change hygiene practices that the community
does not see as important or that conflict with its culture and traditions.



                                            132
                                                             7 HYGIENE EDUCATION




7.2.3 Factors influencing hygiene behaviour and selection of
      content of education
Hygiene education programmes should be based on an understanding of the
factors that influence behaviour at the community level. These might include:
          enabling factors such as money, materials, and time to carry out the
          behaviour;
          pressure from particular members of the family and community, e.g.
          elders, traditional healers, opinion leaders;
          beliefs and attitudes among community members with respect to the
          hygiene behaviour, and especially the perceived benefits and disadvan-
          tages of taking action, and the understanding of the relationship between
          health and hygiene.
     An understanding of the factors that influence hygiene behaviours will help
in identifYing the resources (e.g. soap, storage containers), the key individuals in
the home and community, and the important beliefs that should be taken into
account. This will help to ensure that the content of the hygiene education is
relevant to the community. Good advice should:
          result in improved health
          be affordable
          require a minimum of effort and time to put into practice
          be realistic
          be culturally acceptable
          meet a felt need
          be easy to understand.
     One of the most important characteristics of effective health education is that
it builds on concepts, ideas, and practices that people already have. Most commu-
nities already have beliefs about cleanliness, diarrhoea, and hygiene. In the short
term, it may not be necessary to convince people of the correctness of the germ
theory of disease in order to get them to use latrines and practise good hygiene.
This is a long-term objective that is best achieved in schools. It is possible to find
supporting ideas in many traditional belief systems, and to appeal, for example,
to the desire for comfort and privacy.




7 .2.4 Selection of target groups
Hygiene education is aimed at two kinds of target group:
•   Primary target group-the members of the household, children, women,
    men, grandparents, and others who care for children.
•   Secondary target group-people who need to be involved in the programme
    because of the influence that they have in the community (local leaders, field
    staff from other agencies, politicians, traditional healers, etc.).



                                         133
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




    A single hygiene education message and the associated materials are unlikely
to be sufficient for all purposes. Ideally, the individual needs of each of the target
groups in the community should be addressed, taking into account educational
level and any cultural constraints.


7.2.5 Information needs for hygiene education
Before a formal hygiene education programme is begun, it is important to include
in the sanitary survey (see Chapter 3) an assessment of the sociocultural factors
that characterize the community, in order to determine:
         local beliefs and attitudes regarding water, sanitation, and health;
         traditional water use and defecation habits and excreta disposal practices;
         current levels of knowledge about disease transmission, especially among
         community leaders and other influential individuals;
         the priority given to improvements in water supply and sanitation in
         relation to other community needs;
         existing channels of communication in the community including books,
         newspapers, and magazines, radio or television, traditional drama, songs,
         and story-telling;
         the members of the community and field workers from other agencies
         who might be involved in hygiene education activities.


7.3 Educational methods
Some key characteristics of effective communication and health education are
summarized in Table 7.3.
     The choice of methods to be used should take account of the nature of what
is to be conveyed and of local beliefs, values, and practices; the characteristics of
the intended audience, including educational and literacy levels and exposure to,



Table 7.3 Characteristics of effective health education
•   Promotes act1ons that are real1st1c and feas1ble w1th1n the constraints faced by the
    community
•   Builds on 1deas and concepts that people already have and on common practices
    Is repeated and reinforced over t1me us1ng different methods
•   Uses existing channels of communication, e g songs, drama, and story-tell1ng, and
    can be appropnately adapted to these med1a
•   Is enterta1n1ng and attracts the community's attention
•   Uses clear s1mple language and local express1ons, and emphasizes the short-term
    benefits of act1on
•   Prov1des opportun1t1es for dialogue and d1scuss1on to allow learner part1c1pat1on and
    feedback
•   Uses demonstrations to show the benef1ts of adopt1ng the practices recommended



                                          134
                                                            7 HYGIENE EDUCATION




and familiarity with, different educational methods; practical considerations,
including the amount of money available and the experience of the staff.
     Effecting the fundamental changes in lifestyle that are required to improve
sanitation and hygiene will usually require an intensive programme of face-to-face
communication in the community. This might include visiting individual house-
holders or working with groups in community or other local settings: women's
groups, mothers' groups, children in schools, or trade unions.
     In hygiene education, it is important to emphasize participatory learning
methods; these can include small-group teaching, simulations, case studies, group
exercises, and role play. These methods:
         avoid formal lecture presentations
         encourage discussion between participants
         encourage interaction during the sessions
         use a variety of games, puzzles, and exercises
         use learning aids that stimulate discussion and comments.
     Participatory learning methods have a number of advantages: their active
nature means that participants are more likely to remember what they have
learned; participants draw from their own experience and are allowed to discover
principles for themselves; opportunities are provided for learning problem-
solving skills; participants acquire the confidence to tackle problems and
improve their conditions. However, many field staff will be unfamiliar with
participatory learning methods and will require training.
     Traditional media such as drama, songs, and story-telling are of great poten-
tial value and have been used for education in sanitation and hygiene. They
combine entertainment with practical advice and can be used to stimulate discus-
sion and community participation. The actors and musicians should be given the
basic information on hygiene and health, and allowed to produce a performance
that is both entertaining and understood by the community. It can also be
valuable to involve members of the community in the performance.
     One of the most powerful forms of communication is through real-life
examples, e.g. a demonstration latrine can be constructed in a well-chosen loca-
tion, correct practices can be demonstrated. Demonstrations are most effective if
they can be seen to produce observable benefits in the short term. However, since
the health benefits of sanitation and hygiene can take time to become apparent,
it is best to emphasize immediate benefits such as convenience, comfort, and
freedom from flies and smells.
     Valuable messages can also be communicated by "satisfied acceptors"-
people who have improved their sanitation or hygiene practices and are pleased
with the results. They are the best people to explain the benefits to others, as they
will use everyday language and will have greater credibility with the community.
     A range of learning materials such as flannelgraphs, flip-charts, leaflets,
posters, slide presentations, videos, and models can be developed to support the
work. These should be pretested on a sample of the intended audience to ensure
that their messages are easily understood, and that the advice is relevant and meets

                                        135
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




the community's needs. Local artists can be used and encouraged to work with
the community in preparing materials.
     In general, health education messages should be reinforced by repetition,
ideally through more than one medium.
     Face-to-face education can be supported by the mass media such as radio,
television, and newspapers if the initial survey shows that these will reach the
community. Carefully designed and tested radio programmes, for example, can
be used to spread simple information rapidly to large numbers of people, and to
stimulate increasing awareness of, and interest in, the education programme.
Broadcasts should use a variety of entertaining and interesting formats such as
songs, dramas, quizzes, and interviews with members of the community. The
timing of such broadcasts should fit in with community activities. Because the
mass media reach large audiences, it is difficult to make messages specific to local
communities; it may be useful to prepare radio programmes on cassettes, which
can be played to small groups or through loudspeakers in public places.
     A longer-term approach to improving hygiene in the community is working
with children in schools. This enables the concepts of hygiene to become part of
a general understanding of health and the influence of the environment. School-
children can then introduce hygiene concepts to their parents. They learn from
what they see around them, so that the school environment itself should meet the
requirements of good hygiene, for example by providing latrines, water for hand-
washing, generally clean surroundings, and hygienic facilities for the preparation
and serving of school meals.
     Hygiene education can take place in the classroom but also through activities
in the school surroundings and community. It can be taught as part of a health
education programme as well as of other subjects, such as mathematics, art,
science, music, and drama, and should be integrated within a broad-based health-
education programme with a limited number of predefined educational objec-
tives focused on the health needs of the community. This should provide a basic
knowledge of health in the first years of school that can be extended by a more
detailed discussion of health and disease with older schoolchildren.


7.4 Human resources for hygiene education
For a hygiene education programme to be effectively implemented, management
staff must be aware of its importance and committed to it in practice. Such staff
include sanitary engineers and specialists in public health medicine, and hygiene
education should form part of their professional training.
     The effectiveness of hygiene education within surveillance programmes will
depend on the extent to which local resources can be mobilized to support
educational activities.
     Most hygiene practices are established early in life and reinforced by parents
and elders in the family. In particular, mothers play an important role in encour-



                                       136
                                                              7 HYGIENE EDUCATION




aging hygiene routines in their children and, in most communities, are involved
in the organization of the home, the collection and storage of water, cleanliness,
and child care. An essential priority in hygiene education is therefore to involve
women, by working either with individual women in their homes or with
women's groups within the community. Women should be represented in any
community groups that are formed as part of the surveillance programme.
     The most important resource for hygiene education is the community itself.
A search should be made for any groups or organizations in the community that
might be involved in hygiene education including village committees, water
committees, health committees, young farmers' clubs, women's groups, and
religious bodies.
     Hygiene education is already part of the activities of many members of the
community and field agencies (see Table 7.4), as well as of the staff of clinics and
health centres. Community health workers in primary health care programmes
are key health educators at the village level. Public health inspectors and rural
health assistants are heavily involved in hygiene education as part of their promo-
tion of safe water, environmental sanitation, and hygiene. Health workers in
hospitals have a health education role as part of the treatment and rehabilitation
process.



Table 7.4 Potential human resources for hygiene education in the
          community
Health services:                             Agricultural and development workers:
Doctors and nurses 1n primary health care    Agncultural extens1on workers
Mldw1ves                                     Community development workers
Health visitors                              Nutnt1on programme staff
Public health nurses                         Cooperat1ve workers
Med1cal assistants                           Employment-generating programme staff
Nutnllon programmes                          Women's programme staff
lmmun1zat1on programmes
Spec1al d1sease programmes                   Education services:
Village health workers                       Teachers 1n pr1mary and secondary schools
San1tary techn1c1ans                         Adult educat1on staff
Veter~narians                                Literacy programme staff
                                             Preschool programme staff
Public health services:                      Vocat1onal trainers
Public health Inspectors
Water supply staff                           Informal resources in the community:
San1tary technicians                         Elders
Hyg1ene Inspectors                           Parents
Refuse management staff                      Traditional birth attendants
Sanitary eng1neers                           TraditiOnal healers
                                             Village leaders
                                             Relig1ous leaders




                                            137
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     Outside the health services, those who may become involved in hygiene
education include teachers in schools, adult education, and literacy programmes.
In order to enable them to fulfil this role, the ministry of education or its
equivalent should ensure that subjects such as the environment, hygiene and
health are included in educational programmes, where appropriate.
     Other workers in the community can also be mobilized for hygiene educa-
tion. Agricultural extension workers who advise communities on growing crops
can also provide education on health and nutrition. Community development
officers engaged in promoting community organizations and cooperatives can
play a key role in promoting community action on health issues.
     In addition to government agencies, many voluntary bodies are actively
involved in health education, including nutrition groups, family-planning asso-
ciations, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent and other societies.
     When potential resources for hygiene education are being sought, the follow-
ing questions should be asked: Are any groups involved in hygiene education at
present? How likely is it that they will support hygiene education? What support
would they need to become involved in hygiene education, e.g. training, learning
resources?
     Field staff and volunteers may need training in hygiene education, particu-
larly in the newer participatory learning methods. The aim should be to develop
self-sustaining programmes of hygiene education as part of the normal workload
of local fieldworkers in the community. Although initially such fieldworkers may
need training, support, and encouragement to undertake hygiene education, with
time they should be capable of doing so with minimal external support.


7.5 Role of the surveillance agency in hygiene
education
Hygiene education is only one of the many responsibilities of surveillance field
staff. Many agencies may play a role in hygiene education, including government
bodies (e.g., ministries of water, the environment, health, education, rural devel-
opment, and local government), nongovernmental organizations (both national
and international), and private institutions. Typically, a government agency will
play a coordinating role which, because of the intersectoral nature of the activity,
may involve the following:
    At the national level:
•   Working with other agencies including health education services, water
    supply services, and NGOs, and involving them in hygiene education
    activities.
•   Undertaking hygiene education through the mass media to support activities
    at the community level.
•   Reviewing, analysing and interpreting surveillance data in order to evaluate
    hygiene education activities and determine priority areas for future action.

                                        138
                                                             7 HYGIENE EDUCATION




•   Collecting information on innovative and effective methods of hygiene
    education including national and foreign experience, and disseminating it
    through reports, workshops and meetings.
•   Providing regional training in hygiene education for surveillance field staff
    and support agencies.

At the regional level:
•   Acting as a bridge between act1v1t1es at a national level and those in the
    region, briefing regional officials in project areas, providing details of national
    activities, and mass media programmes.
•   Working with regional agencies to involve field personnel from as wide a
    range as possible of agencies, e.g. health assistants and health inspectors,
    nurses, village health workers, teachers, agricultural and rural development
    staff, rural home-makers, adult literacy and adult education workers.
•   Coordinating the activities of various field agencies involved in hygiene
    education including advising on the content of educational programmes to
    ensure that they are accurate, relevant, and appropriate to the needs of local
    communities.
•   Providing training in sanitation and hygiene education, including practical
    communication skills.
•   Distributing educational materials and working with field staff and the
    community to produce locally relevant educational materials.
•   Working with other field agencies and the community to ensure that reports
    on surveillance activities include information on hygiene education needs,
    the effectiveness of local activities, and research on hygiene education.

At the local level:
•   Working with families and communities to stimulate community participa-
    tion and undertake hygiene education.
•   Working with community organizations engaged in hygiene education and
    surveillance activities, e.g. water committees, to provide support and train-
    ing, and involving them in hygiene education, monitoring, and surveillance
    activities.
•   Working with field staff from different agencies active in the local communi-
    ties, and coordinating hygiene education, training, support, and educational
    materials.


7.6 Funding hygiene education activities
Because of the intersectoral nature of hygiene education, a number of agencies
will obviously make contributions both in financing and in kind. Thus, for
example, the education sector may contribute significantly through schools and
adult literacy or vocational training programmes, and the communities them-
selves may make significant contributions, especially in kind.

                                         139
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     In practice, dedicated hygiene education programmes are most commonly
the responsibility of the ministry of health or its equivalent. This is logical because
of the responsibility of this agency for protecting health. Nevertheless, depending
on local circumstances, other agencies can usefully link hygiene education activi-
ties to their programmes, e.g. mobile borehole drilling teams of the ministry
responsible for water can be linked to hygiene educators.




                                         140
8.
Legislative, regulatory, policy, and
basic management aspects



8.1 Application of water-supply legislation
8.1.1 Short- and medium-term targets
The Guidelines for drinking-water quality cover a large number of possible con-
taminants in order to meet the varied needs of countries. However, it is very
unlikely that all of the contaminants mentioned will occur in a water supply. Care
should therefore be taken in selecting substances for which national standards will
be developed. A number of factors should be considered, including the geology of
the region and the types of human activities that take place there. Thus, if a
particular pesticide is not used in the region, there will be no need to monitor it
or to establish a drinking-water standard for it. Scarce resources should not
be wasted on developing standards for, and monitoring, substances of minor
importance.
     In countries where economic and human resources are limited, short- and
medium-term targets should be set in establishing national drinking-water stan-
dards, water-quality surveillance, and quality-control programmes so that the
most significant risks to human health are controlled first. It is thus important to
draft water-quality legislation in such a manner as to allow for flexibility in
achieving water-quality targets in stages.
    The most common and widespread health risk associated with drinking-
water is its microbial contamination, the consequences of which are so serious
that its control must always be of paramount importance. Microbiological quality
should therefore be regarded as a priority, although it may be impossible to attain
the targets in the short or medium term. It is therefore necessary to ensure that
priority is given to water supplies presenting the greatest public health risk,
whether through prioritization, as described in Chapter 5, or through legal
mechanisms such as exemptions to allow for progressive improvements.
    Attempting to follow the Guidelines in an indiscriminate manner can result
in a situation where the drinking-water standards adopted in a country are not
appropriate to its real health needs, or where there is little or no professional or
economic capability to monitor and enforce them. In such a situation, personnel
concerned with water quality and public health and community leaders may
become demoralized, leading to a loss of confidence in all water-quality standards

                                        141
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




and monitoring procedures, frustration, and loss of respect for health and envi-
ronmental laws and regulations in general.
     Health and water authorities should therefore formulate a clear strategy for
the establishment of water-quality goals in stages-short-, medium- and long-
term. A programme based on modest but realistic goals including fewer water-
quality parameters but at attainable levels consistent with providing a reasonable
degree of public health protection may achieve more than an overambitious one.
    The drinking-water quality legislation should clearly provide for the possibil-
ity of regional differences in standards and for differences between large urban
and small-community supplies. This can also take the form of temporary exemp-
tions for certain communities or areas from specified water-quality standards for
clearly defined periods of time. Such exemptions should be granted by a senior
public or environmental health official at the district, regional, or national level
who has authority under the law to do so.
     Interim standards, permitted deviations and exemptions should be estab-
lished under the authority of the law as part of a national or regional policy, rather
than as a result oflocal initiatives and self-interest. Water-supply agencies should
act on all matters relating to the quality of the water that they supply under the
authority of laws and regulations laid down by a higher authority, rather than
by establishing their own interim standards based on their own judgement or
convenience. Such a legal framework is important both for ensuring public
health protection and to protect water-supply agencies from being held liable for
"substandard" water.


8.1.2 Compliance: the role of the water-supply agency and the
      surveillance agency
Legislation should clearly specifY that the water-supply agency is legally responsible
at all times for the quality of the water sold and/or supplied to the consumer and
for the proper supervision, inspection, maintenance, and safe operation of the
water-supply system. It is the water-supply agency which actually provides water
to the public-the "customer"-usually on a commercial basis, and which
should, as the supplier or vendor of the finished product, be legally responsible
(under both criminal and civil law) for its quality and safety from a public health
point of view. However, it should be held responsible for the quality of the water
only up to a defined point in the distribution system, and not for any deteriora-
tion of water quality within the household as a result of poor plumbing or
unsatisfactory storage tanks. It should be the long-term policy of the health and
water authorities to place the legal burden of the primary level of water-quality
control testing on the supply agency. These authorities should develop the
infrastructure necessary for quality control, the costs involved forming part of the
price of the water. This form of transfer of responsibility, in a decentralized
manner, to the producer/supplier provides a system of independent surveillance



                                         142
        8 LEGISLATIVE, REGULATORY, POLICY, AND BASIC MANAGEMENT ASPECTS




coupled with strict enforcement by an authority with the power to determine
whether the supplier is fulfilling its responsibilities, and is based on the principles
of sound administration.
    The legislation should empower the appointed surveillance agency to enforce
compliance with water-quality standards and regulations by carrying out inde-
pendent periodic surveillance of all aspects of water quality and safety, including
sanitary inspections and spot checks. The results of this surveillance should be
reported to the water-supply agency, which should be required to take remedial
action, where necessary.
    Surveillance should primarily be a support and advisory function and only
secondarily one of enforcement and the imposition of penalties. However, appro-
priate penalties should be specified in the law, including fines for violations, and
continuing fines for continuing violations. Consideration should be given to
holding water-supply agency management personally responsible for serious of-
fences involving personal neglect and mismanagement, something that has been
found to be effective in certain countries. The surveillance agency should be
required by law to publish annual reports on its work or at least to provide free
public access to all water-quality surveillance results in a form that is both
meaningful and comprehensible to the general public.
     While remedial action to ensure the timely correction of faults should be an
aim of the surveillance programme, there may at times be a need for penalties to
ensure compliance. The surveillance agency must be supported by strong and
enforceable legislation if it is to be effective. However, it is important that the
agency develops a positive and supportive relationship with suppliers.
     The surveillance agency should be empowered by law to compel the supplier
to post notices recommending the boiling of water when microbial contamina-
tion is detected.



8.1.3 Surveillance requirements
The legislation should define the duties, obligations, and powers of the water-
surveillance agency. Legal and organizational arrangements aimed at ensuring
compliance with the legislation, standards, or codes of practice for drinking-water
quality must provide for the establishment, wherever feasible, of an independent
surveillance agency. Often the optimum procedure is to empower a government
agency, as discussed in Chapter 2, which has qualified professional personnel and
laboratory facilities to undertake the role of a surveillance agency. In many
developing countries, however, the ministry of health or other surveillance agency
may have the necessary power under the law but few resources for surveillance
activities, and is thus ineffective. The delegation of the surveillance function to a
qualified, government-authorized agency, possibly at a lower level (e.g. provincial
or local) or to a private institution, may be considered as an alternative approach.



                                         143
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




8.1.4 Sampling frequencies and parameters
Frequent sanitary inspections and water-quality testing, particularly for micro-
biological contamination, are essential elements in any surveillance programme
aimed at ensuring that drinking-water meets the standards established. In rural
areas, where water sources may not be exposed to industrial wastes or agricultural
chemicals, testing for most micropollutants may not be necessary or feasible.
Realistic and flexible sampling frequencies should be established for the param-
eters that are to be measured. The basic water legislation should not specify
sampling frequencies but should give the administration the power to establish a
list of parameters to be measured and the frequency of such measurements.
However, it must be emphasized that water-supply surveillance is not based solely
on laboratory testing, but also on regular sanitary inspections and surveys accom-
panied by recommendations for remedial action. Follow-up visits will also be
required to ensure that such remedial action is taken.


8.1.5 Prescribed analytical methods
Drinking-water standards or regulations must be designed to ensure that ac-
cepted, standardized, reliable, and accurate analytical methods are used by all
agencies and laboratories. This is particularly important where litigation may be
necessary. Simpler and less expensive methods may sometimes be accepted for
some routine tests in remote areas where there are no proper laboratory facilities.
The legislation must allow for such alternative methods under certain circum-
stances. Regulations should also require quality-assurance procedures to be intro-
duced and monitored in water-supply agencies and certified private laboratories
carrying out water-quality testing.


8.2 Technical regulations: construction, operation, and
     plumbing codes of practice
Important elements in ensuring the supply of water of the required quality
include proper source selection, and the design, construction, and operation of
water-supply facilities. Codes of practice should be established to ensure that the
best sustainable source of water is selected, and that systems are designed to
protect water quality by means of effective barriers to contamination. These
matters can be covered to some extent by technical regulations and statutory
codes under the basic water-quality legislation. However, excessively rigid con-
struction and plumbing codes which can only be amended by complicated and
slow legislative procedures should be avoided. Such technical regulations and
codes should be administrative in character and easy to amend to allow for
new technological developments and for the introduction of low-cost interim
methods under certain circumstances.



                                       144
Selected further reading




Bartram J. Drinking water supply surveillance. Guildford, England, Robens
     Institute of Health and Safety, University of Surrey, 1990.
Disinfection of rural and small-community water supplies: a manual for design and
     operation. Medmenham, England, Water Research Centre, 1989.
Foster S, Venura M, Hirata R. Groundwater pollution. Lima, WHO/PAHO/
     CEPIS, 1987.
Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Vol. 1, Recommendations. Geneva, World
    Health Organization, 1993.
Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Vol. 2, Health criteria and other supporting
    information. Geneva, World Health Organization, 1996.
Lloyd B, Helm er R. Surveillance ofdrinking water quality in rural areas. Harlow,
     England, Longman Scientific and Technical, 1991.
Manual of basic techniques for a health laboratory. Geneva, World Health 0 rgan-
   ization, 1980 (second edition in preparation).
Rajagopalan S, Shiffman MA. Guide to simple sanitary measures for the control of
     enteric diseases. Geneva, World Health Organization, 1974.
Selected physical and chemical standard methods for students. Washington, DC,
     American Public Health Association, 1990.
Small community water supplies-technology ofsmall water supply systems in devel-
    oping countries. The Hague, International Reference Centre for Community
    Water Supply and Sanitation, 1983.
Standard methods for the examination of water and wastewater, 17th ed. Washing-
     ton, DC, American Public Health Association, 1989.
Surveillance ofdrinking-water quality. Geneva, World Health Organization, 1976
     (WHO Monograph Series, No. 63).
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards for sampling
of drinking-water supplies:
ISO 5667-1:1980     Sampling-Part 1 Guidance on the design of sampling
                                    programmes

                                       145
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




ISO 5667-2:1991    Sampling-Part 2     Guidance on sampling techniques
ISO 5667-3:1994 Sampling-Part 3        Guidance on the preservation and
                                       handling of samples
ISO 5667-4: 1987   Sampling-Part 4     Guidance on sampling from lakes,
                                       natural and man-made
ISO 5667-5:1991    Sampling-Part 5 Guidance on sampling of drinking-
                                   water and water used for food and
                                   beverage processing
ISO 5667-6: 1990   Sampling-Part 6     Guidance on sampling of rivers and
                                       streams
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards for microbio-
logical analysis:
ISO 6222:1988         Enumeration of viable micro-organisms. Colony count
                      by inoculation in or on a nutrient agar culture
                      medium.
ISO 7899-1:1984       Detection and enumeration of faecal streptococci-
                      Part 1: Method by enrichment in a liquid medium.
ISO 7899-2:1984       Detection and enumeration of faecal streptococci-
                      Part 2: Method by membrane filtration.
ISO 8199:1988         General guide to the enumeration of micro-organisms
                      by culture.
ISO 9308-1:1990       Detection and enumeration of coliform organisms,
                      thermotolerant coliform organisms and presumptive
                      Escherichia coli-Part 1: Membrane filtration method.
ISO 9308-2:1990       Detection and enumeration of coliform organisms,
                      thermotolerant coliform organisms and presumptive
                      Escherichia coli-Part 2: Multiple tube (most probable
                      number) method.




                                    146
Annex I
List of contributors and reviewers




H. Abouzaid, Environmental Health Risk Assessment and Management, Divi-
    sion of Environmental Health, WHO Regional Office for the Eastern
    Mediterranean, Alexandria, Egypt
]. Bartram, Manager, Water and Wastes, WHO European Centre for Environ-
    ment and Health, Rome, Italy
V. Bizhga, Cabinet of the Minister, Ministry of Health and Environmental
    Protection, Tirana, Albania
X. Bonnefoy, Environmental Health Planning/Ecology, World Health Organiza-
    tion, Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark
T. Boonyakarnkul, Environmental Health Division, Health Department, Minis-
    try of Public Health, Bangkok, Thailand
M.T. Boot, Programme Officer, IRC International Water and Sanitation Centre,
   The Hague, Netherlands
].Z. Boutros, Consultant in Food and Water Control, Khartoum, Sudan
B. Clarke, Centre for Environmental Health and Water Engineering, Depart-
    ment of Civil Engineering, University of Surrey, Guildford, England
W. Fellows, Programme Officer, Water and Environmental Sanitation, UNICEF,
   Harare, Zimbabwe
H. Fenger, WHO Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen Denmark
H. Galal-Gorchev, International Programme on Chemical Safety, World Health
    Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
E. Gonzalez, Chief, Division of Water Quality, Water Supply and Sewerage, San
    Jose, Costa Rica
F.]. Gumbo, Head of Water Laboratories, Operation, Maintenance and Water
     Laboratories Division, Ministry of Water (MAJI), Dar-es-Salaam, United
     Republic of Tanzania
A.N. Havelaar, National Institute of Public Health and Environmental Protec-
    tion, Bilthoven, Netherlands

                                    147
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




R. Helmer, Urban Environmental Health, Division of Operational Support in
    Environmental Health, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
G. Howard, Research Fellow, The Robens Institute of Health and Safety, Uni-
    versity of Surrey, Guildford, England
J. Hubley, Senior Lecturer in Health Education, Health Education Unit, Faculty
    of Health and Social Care, Leeds Metropolitan University, Leeds, England
].A. Hueb, Rural Environmental Health, Division of Operational Support in
     Environmental Health, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
B. Jackson, Senior Engineering Advisor, British Development Division in East
    Africa, Nairobi, Kenya; Water Resources Adviser, Engineering Division,
     Overseas Development Administration, London, England
E. Khaka, Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Water, Harare, Zimbabwe
L. Laugeri, formerly Community Water Supply, Division of Environmental
    Health, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
S. Laver, Lecturer, Department of Community Medicine, University of
    Zimbabwe, Mount Pleasant, Harare, Zimbabwe
L. Leno, Microbiologist, Research Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, and
    Cabinet of the Minister, Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection,
    Tirana, Albania
B. Lloyd, Head, Centre for Environmental Health and Water Engineering,
    Department of Civil Engineering, University of Surrey, Guildford, England
M.T. Martins, Associate Professor, Environmental Microbiology Laboratory,
   University of Sao Paulo, Brazil
L. Monjour, Water, Agriculture and Health in the Tropics, Paris, France
P. Morgan, Advisor, Water and Sanitation, Ministry of Health, Blair Research
    Laboratory, Harare, Zimbabwe
S. Mtero, Principal Medical Research Officer, Ministry of Health, Blair Research
    Laboratory, Harare, Zimbabwe
S. Musingarabwi, Director, Environmental Health Services, Ministry of Health,
    Harare, Zimbabwe
F. Niang, Chief, Laboratory Service, Senegalese National Water Management
    Company, Dakar, Senegal
M. Pardon, De!Agua/CEPIS, Lima, Peru
S. Pedley, Research Fellow, The Robens Institute of Health and Safety, Univer-
    sity of Surrey, Guildford, England

                                      148
                                                                      ANNEX 1




E.B. Pike, formerly Water Research Centre, Medmenham, England
]. Ptashekas, Director, Environmental Medicine Centre, Vilnius, Lithuania
P. Ranque, Dracunculiasis Eradication, Division of Control ofTropical Diseases,
    World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
P.K. Ray, Director, Industrial Toxicology Research Centre, Lucknow, India
A. Rickards, Research Fellow, The Robens Institute of Health and Safety,
    University of Surrey, England
K. Shehu, Director, Hydraulics, Water Supply and Sewerage, Tirana, Albania
H. Shuval, Lunenfield-Kunin Professor of Environmental Health, Hebrew
   University of Jerusalem, Israel
F. Solsona, WHO Sanitary Engineer, Brasilia, Brazil
P. Taylor, Director, Training Centre for Water and Sanitation, Department of
    Civil Engineering, University of Zimbabwe, Harare, Zimbabwe
]. Thoegersen, Centre for Developing Countries, Technical University of
    Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark
H. Utkilen, Scientist, National Institute of Public Health, Department of
   Environmental Medicine, Oslo, Norway
K. Wedgwood, Research Officer, The Robens Institute of Health and Safety,
   University of Surrey, Guildford, England
F. Zawide, WHO Sanitary Engineer, Sub-region Ill, Harare, Zimbabwe




                                     149
Annex 2

Examples of sanitary inspection
forms



Examples of sanitary inspection forms are given here as follows:
     Nonpiped supplies: open dug well (Fig. A2.1); dug well with windlass and
partial cover (Fig. A2.2); covered dug well with hand-pump (Fig. A2.3); rain-
water collection and storage (Fig. A2.4); tubewell with hand-pump (Fig. A2.5);
tanker trucks, filling stations, and household tanks (Fig. A2.6).
     Piped supplies: deep borehole with mechanical pump (Fig. A2.7); protected
spring source (Fig. A2.8); surface sources and abstraction (Fig. A2.9); piped
distribution (Fig. A2.10); water-treatment plant (Fig. A2.11).
     With the exception of Fig. A2.11, these all consist of two pages and include
illustrations depicting the various types of water supplies in appropriate settings;
potential hazards are listed and numbered. The use of these forms enables a
hazard score to be assigned to the particular water supply based on the total
number of hazards found; however, differential weighting may be necessary to
allow for local conditions (seep. 47).
     Latrines and other point sources of potential faecal contamination should be
located sufficiently far from groundwater sources used for drinking purposes to
ensure that the risk of pathogen survival is very low. Once the "travel time" of
microbial pathogens through the ground has been established, it is possible to
determine a minimum safe distance (MSD) of potentially polluting activities
from water sources.
     The travel time of microbes depends on local hydrogeological conditions, in
particular the hydraulic conductivity or permeability of the soil and rock in the
unsaturated and saturated zones. Thus it is difficult to set MSDs that are univer-
sally applicable. Travel time will also be affected by the volume and concentration
of contamination introduced into an area. It has been shown that in rural areas
of low population density, the majority of viruses and bacteria will die after 10
days in groundwater. Thus, in these areas, where small-scale water supplies and
sanitation are introduced, this travel time may be used as a basis for establishing
MS Os. In urban areas where municipal wastewater is discharged and in those where
there is intensive use of on-site sanitation, a figure of 50 days is more appropriate.
     It is often difficult to obtain sound hydrogeological information. However,
some idea of the local hydrogeological conditions can be gained by carefully
recording the changes in soil and rock type during test drilling and by conducting
infiltration tests in the area where latrine construction is proposed. The infiltra-

                                        150
                                                                              ANNEX 2




tion capacity of the soil in the area should be assessed when the water table is at
its highest.
     An infiltration test can be carried out as follows:
•   Bore a hole(s) of diameter 10 cm and depth slightly greater than the maxi-
    mum depth of the latrine pits (usually about 3m).
•   Fill the hole(s) with water and leave overnight to allow the soil to become
    saturated. When the soil is very dry, it may be necessary to refill the hole
    several times to ensure that the surrounding soil becomes saturated.
•   Refill the hole(s) to a depth of 30 cm, and measure the fall in water level over
    30- and 90-minute periods. The infiltration rate can then be estimated from
    the fall in water level during these periods. For greater accuracy, the volume
    of water infiltrating should be calculated and a value of the infiltration rate
    obtained in m 3 /m2 per hour or m/h.
It should be noted that the above test gives the infiltration capacity of the soil, i.e.
the steady-state capacity to absorb water. Under very dry conditions, the actual
infiltration rate may vary considerably. The test will usually be carried out with
"clean" water, but the liquid from pit latrines will be "dirty" and the true
infiltration capacity may therefore be lower. However, it is always better to be
careful when locating latrines, and using clean water is likely to give a MSD
which will be more than adequate for "dirty" water.
     The procedure described above is a basic test which only gives an idea of how
quickly liquid from a pit latrine will infiltrate and move through the ground. For
greater precision, the hydraulic conductivity of the soil should be established by
means of more sophisticated formulae based on Darcy's law, for which reference
should be made to standard texts on groundwater and hydrogeology. Informa-
tion should be obtained on the geology of the area where infiltration capacity is
being evaluated, particularly on whether any fissures or joints underlie the area
proposed for latrine development, since these may dramatically increase the
hydraulic conductivity and thus the MSD.
     The rate of movement of groundwater varies greatly depending on the
permeability, ranging from fractions of metres per day in clays, to 1-10 m per day
in sands, 50 m plus per day in very permeable gravels, and even greater rates in
rock fissures, e.g. in limestone. Thus, while the MSD for impermeable clays may
be as low as a few metres, for sands this may increase to 100 m; in permeable
gravel beds or areas where there are shallow aquifers in fissures, it may reach as
much as several kilometres.
     As a rough guide, a value of 10 m can be considered as the absolute MSD
allowable in areas of deep impermeable clay which does not form cracks during
dry periods. However, unless detailed investigations of the area have been carried
out under all conditions, it is preferable to increase this distance to at least 30 m.
If the groundwater in the area is found in very permeable aquifers, such as gravels
and rock fissures, on-site sanitation may not be appropriate. If no other option is
available, sealed pits with impermeable concrete linings should be used.

                                          151
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2. 1 Example of sanitary inspection form for open dug well
Note: MSD   =   m1n1mum safe distance as determined locally; see section 6.2.2.




                               lCl
                               a               =
                                               0
                                               c::l
                               c:::J
                                               c:l          I m
                               C)J
                                               0
                                                                         7
                       8       D               c::J
                               c:l
                               Cl              =
                                               <;::I
                               Cl
                               c::J
                                               =
                                               CJ
                       3m      c:J             p
                               =
                               e
                                               !C]

                                               =
                               =
                               c::J
                                               =
                                               w
                                               c:::l
                                               Cl
                                               =
                                               =.




                                            152
                                                                                                                  ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           OPEN DUG WELL

 1.    General information:             Health centre .................................................................... .
                                        Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3.    Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4.    Date of visit .................................... ..
 5.    Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

11     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

 1.    Is there a latrine within 10 m of the well?                                                                        Y/N
 2.    Is the nearest latrine on higher ground than the well?                                                             Y/N
 3.    Is there any other source of pollution (e.g. animal excreta, rubbish)                                              Y/N
       within 10 m of the well?

 4.    Is the drainage poor, causing stagnant water within 2 m of the well?                                               Y/N
 5. Is there a faulty drainage channel? Is it broken, permitting ponding?                                                 Y/N
 6.    Is the wall (parapet) around the well inadequate, allowing                                                         Y/N
       surface water to enter the well?

 7.    Is the concrete floor less than 1 m wide around the well?                                                          Y/N
 8.    Are the walls of the well inadequately sealed at any point for                                                     Y/N
       3 m below ground?

 9.    Are there any cracks in the concrete floor around the well which                                                   Y/N
       could permit water to enter the well?

10. Are the rope and bucket left in such a position that they may                                                         Y/N
    become contaminated?
11.    Does the installation require fencing?                                                                             Y/N
                                                                        Total score of risks ..................... I 11

Contamination risk score: 9-11 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-11)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ....................................... ..




                                                           153
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.2 Example of sanitary inspection form for dug well with
          windlass and partial cover
Note: MSD   =   mm1mum safe distance determined locally; see section 6.2 2.




                                             154
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANNEX 2




      Type of facility          DUG WELL WITH WINDLASS AND PARTIAL COVER

 1.   General information:                  Health centre                               00 0000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0000 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0000 00 00 0000 00 0000 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o o o •




                                            Village .............................................................................. .
 2.   Code no.-Address             o o o o o o o o o o • • • o o o o • • • o o o o · · · · · · · o o · · · · · o o · · · · • o o o o • • oo • • • • • o o o o o o o o o o o o • • · o o · · · · o o · · · · · · · o o · · · · o o




 3.   Water authority/community representative signature                                                                                 OOOOOOOOOOooOOOOoooooooo•




 4.   Date of visit   OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOooOOOOoooooooo




 5.   Water sample taken?            0000000         Sample no.                          000000000          Thermotolerant coliform grade                                                                      oooooooo•




11    Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                                                                                                                 Risk

 1.   Is there a latrine within 10 m of the well?                                                                                                                                                                    YIN
 2.   Is the nearest latrine on higher ground than the well?                                                                                                                                                         YIN

 3.   Is there any other source of pollution (e.g. animal excreta, rubbish)                                                                                                                                          YIN
      within 10 m of the well?

 4.   Is the drainage poor, causing stagnant water within 2m of the well?                                                                                                                                            YIN

 5. Is there a faulty drainage channel? Is it broken, permitting ponding?                                                                                                                                            YIN
 6.   Is the wall (parapet) around the well inadequate, allowing                                                                                                                                                     YIN
      surface water to enter the well?

 7.   Is the concrete floor less than 1 m wide around the well?                                                                                                                                                      YIN
 8.   Are the walls of the well inadequately sealed at any point for                                                                                                                                                 YIN
      3 m below ground?

 9.   Are there any cracks in the concrete floor around the well which                                                                                                                                               YIN
      could permit water to enter the well?

10. Are the rope and bucket left in such a position that they may                                                                                                                                                    YIN
    become contaminated?

11.   Does the well require a cover?                                                                                                                                                                                 YIN
12.   Does the installation require fencing?                                                                                                                                                                         YIN
                                                                                                                 Total score of risks                                          00000000000000000000                      /12

Contamination risk score: 9-12 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted:                                                                 oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo•                                  (list nos 1-12)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian      00 00 0000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0000 00 00 00 0000 0 0 .




                                                                                     155
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.3 Example of sanitary inspection form for covered dug well
          with hand-pump
Note: MSD = minimum safe distance determmed locally; see section 6.2.2.




                                         =
                                         D
                                         =            1m
                          =              =
                                         D
                                                  7
                          0
                                         =
                          =
                          =              ID
                                         =
                   3m     =
                          Cl
                                         =
                                         Cl
                          Cl             CJ
                          c:::J          0
                          0              0
                  12      =              a
                          c:;;l          a::::l
                          El
                          =              =
                                         =
                          =




                                         156
                                                                                                                 ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           COVERED DUG WELL WITH HAND-PUMP

 1.    General information:            Health centre .................................................................... .
                                       Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address .............................................................................................. ..
 3. Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4. Date of visit .................................... ..
 5. Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

11     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                   Risk

 1.    Is there a latrine within 10 m of the well and hand-pump?                                                        Y/N

 2.    Is the nearest latrine on higher ground than the hand-pump?                                                      Y/N

 3.    Is there any other source of pollution (e.g. animal excreta, rubbish)                                            Y/N
       within 10m of the hand-pump?

 4.    Is the drainage poor, causing stagnant water within 2m of the cement                                             Y/N
       floor of the hand-pump?

 5.    Is there a faulty drainage channel? Is it broken, permitting ponding?                                            Y/N

 6.    Is the wall or fencing around the hand-pump inadequate, allowing                                                 Y/N
       animals in?

 7.    Is the concrete floor less than 1 m wide all around the hand-pump?                                               Y/N

 8.    Is there any ponding on the concrete floor around the hand-pump?                                                 Y/N

 9.    Are there any cracks in the concrete floor around the hand-pump                                                  Y/N
       which could permit water to enter the hand-pump?

10.    Is the hand-pump loose at the point of attachment to the base                                                    Y/N
       so that water could enter the casing?
11.    Is the cover of the well unsanitary?                                                                             Y/N

12.    Are the walls of the well inadequately sealed at any point                                                       Y/N
       for 3 m below ground level?

                                                                        T oral score of risks .................... 11 2

Contamination risk score: 9-12 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill     Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-12)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .

                                                          157
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.4 Example of sanitary inspection form for rainwater
          collection and storage




                                 158
                                                                                                                  ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           RAINWATER COLLECTION AND STORAGE

 1.    General information:             Health centre .................................................................... .
                                        Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3.    Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4.    Date of visit ..................................... .
 5. Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

11     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

 1.    Is there any visible contamination of the roof catchment area                                                     Y/N
       (plants, dirt, or excreta)?
 2.    Are the guttering channels that collect water dirty?                                                               Y/N

 3.    Is there any deficiency in the filter box at the tank inlet                                                       Y/N
       (e.g. lacks fine gravel)?

 4.    Is there any other point of entry to the tank that is not properly covered?                                        Y/N

 5.    Is there any defect in the walls or top of the tank (e.g. cracks) that                                            Y/N
       could let water in?

 6.    Is the tap leaking or otherwise defective?                                                                         Y/N

 7.    Is the concrete floor under the tap defective or dirty?                                                            Y/N

 8.    Is the water collection area inadequately drained?                                                                Y/N

 9.    Is there any source of pollution around the tank or water collection                                               Y/N
       area (e.g. excreta)?

10.    Is a bucket in use and left in a place where it may become contaminated?                                           Y/N

                                                                         Total score of risks .................... /10

Contamination risk score: 9-10 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-10)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ....................................... ..




                                                           159
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.5 Example of sanitary inspection form for tubewe/1 with
          hand-pump
Note: MSD = minimum safe distance determined locally; see sect1on 6.2 2.




                                                                           WH096581




                                         160
                                                                                                                  ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           TUBEWELL WITH HAND-PUMP
 1.    General information:             Health centre .................................................................... .
                                        Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3.    Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4.    Date of visit ..................................... .
 5.    Water sample taken/ ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

II     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

  1.   Is there a latrine within 10m of the hand-pump/                                                                   Y/N

 2.    Is the nearest latrine on higher ground than the hand-pump/                                                       Y/N

 3.    Is there any other source of pollution (e.g. animal excreta, rubbish,                                              Y/N
       surface water) within 10m of the hand-pump/

 4.    Is the drainage poor, causing stagnant water within 2 m of the
       hand-pump?                                                                                                         Y/N

 5.    Is the hand-pump drainage channel faulty/ Is it broken, permitting
       ponding? Does it need cleaning?                                                                                    Y/N
 6.    Is the fencing around the hand-pump inadequate, allowing animals in?                                              Y/N

 7.    Is the concrete floor less than 1 m wide all around the hand-pump?                                                Y/N

 8.    Is there any ponding on the concrete floor around the hand-pump?                                                   Y/N

 9.    Are there any cracks in the concrete floor around the hand-pump which                                              Y/N
       could permit water to enter the well?

10.    Is the hand-pump loose at the point of attachment to the base so that                                             Y/N
       water could enter the casing?

                                                                         T oral score of risks .................... 11 0
Contamination risk score: 9-l 0 = vety high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos l-10)
and the authority advised on remedial action.
Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .




                                                           161
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.6 Example of sanitary inspection form for filling stations,
          tanker trucks, and household tanks




                                 162
                                                                                                                 ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           FILLING STATIONS, TANKER TRUCKS, AND
                                  HOUSEHOLD TANKS

 1.    General information:            Health centre ................................................................... ..
                                       Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3. Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4. Date of visit ..................................... .
 5. Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

11     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

Tanker filling stations
 1. Is the chlorine level at the filling station less than 0.5 mgllitre?                                                 YIN
 2.    Is the filling station excluded from the routine quality-control                                                  YIN
       programme of the water authority?

 3.    Is the discharge pipe unsanitary?                                                                                 YIN
Tanker trucks
 4. Is the tanker ever used for transporting other liquids besides                                                       YIN
    drinking-water?

 5.    Is the filler hole unsanitary, or is the lid missing?                                                             Y/N
 6.    Is the delivery hose nozzle dirty or stored unsafely?                                                             Y/N
Domestic storage tanks
 7. Can contaminants (e.g. soil on the inside of the lid) enter the tank                                                 Y/N
    during filling?

 8.    Does the tank lack a cover?                                                                                       Y/N
 9.    Does the tank need a tap for withdrawal of water?                                                                 Y/N
10.    Is there stagnant water around the storage tank?                                                                  YIN
                                                                        Total score of risks .................... 110

Contamination risk score: 9-10 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-1 O)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .




                                                          163
       Fig. A2. 7 Example of sanitary inspection form for deep bore hole with mechanical pump
       Note: MSD = mm1mum safe distance determined locally; see section 6 2.2.
                                                                                                                   (j)
                                                                                                                   c
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                   c::::
                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                   Ul
                                                                                                                   'll
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   :::0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   :::0
                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                                   z:;
                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                                   (j)


                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                   :::0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   c
                                                                                                                    )>
                                                                                                                    r
                                  "                                                                                 =i
())
.!:>                              :~·- ·.·   =.:::::; ': ::--:..-_-.;.-_ -------   = ";. = = === =::.   ::-::',•    -<




            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANNEX 2




I        Type of facility           DEEP BOREHOLE WITH MECHANICAL PUMP

    1.   General information:                   Health centre                               00 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 .




                                                Village .............................................................................. .
    2.   Code no.-Address              00 • • 0 0 0 0 • • • • • o o • • • o o o o • • 00 • • • 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 0 0 • • • 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 • • • 0 0 0 • • • • o o • 00 0 0 0 • • • 0 0 0 0 • • o o o o • • 0 0 0 0 • •




    3.   Water authority/community representative signature                                                                                 ooooooooooooooooooooooooo




    4.   Date of visit   OOooooooooooOOOOOOOOooooOOOOOOooooooOO




    5.   Is water sample taken?               0000      Sample no.                          000000000           Thermotolerant coliform grade                                                                     000000000




11       Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                                                                                                                Risk

    1.   Is there a latrine or sewer within 15-20 m of the pump house?                                                                                                                                                 YIN
    2.   Is the nearest latrine a pit latrine that percolates to soil, i.e. unsewered?                                                                                                                                 YIN
    3.   Is there any other source of pollution (e.g. animal excreta, rubbish, surface                                                                                                                                 YIN
         water) within 10 m of the borehole?

    4.   Is there an uncapped well within 15-20 m of the borehole?                                                                                                                                                     YIN
    5.   Is the drainage area around the pumphouse faulty?                                                                                                                                                             YIN
         Is it broken, permitting ponding and/or leakage to ground?

    6.   Is the fencing around the installation damaged in any way which                                                                                                                                               YIN
         would permit any unauthorized entry or allow animals access?

    7.   Is the floor of the pumphouse permeable to water?                                                                                                                                                             YIN
    8.   Is the well seal unsanitary?                                                                                                                                                                                  YIN
    9.   Is the chlorination functioning properly?                                                                                                                                                                     YIN
10.      Is chlorine present at the sampling tap?                                                                                                                                                                      YIN
                                                                                                                     Total score of risks                                         00000000000000000000                     /10
Contamination risk score: 9-10 = very high; 6-8                                                                     = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill      Results and recommendations
The following important points of risk were noted:                                                                    ooooooooooooOOOOOOOOooooOOOOOOooo                                 (list nos 1-10)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian         00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 00 00 00 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 .




                                                                                        165
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.8 Example of sanitary inspection form for protected spring
          source




                                 166
                                                                                                                                      ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           PROTECTED SPRING SOURCE

 1.    General information:             Health centre .. ···oo                    oo ..•••••...••
                                                                    00 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •   00 • • • • • • • • • • • • 00 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 00




                                        Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3.    Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4.    Date of visit ..................................... .
 5. Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

II     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                                                Risk

  1.   Is the spring source unprotected by masonry or concrete wall or spring                                                                        Y/N
       box and therefore open to surface contamination?

 2.    Is the masonry protecting the spring source faulty?                                                                                           Y/N

 3.    If there is a spring box, is there an unsanitary inspection cover in the
       masonry?                                                                                                                                      Y/N

 4. Does the spring box contain contaminating silt or animals?                                                                                       YIN
 5. If there is an air vent in the masonry, is it unsanitary?                                                                                        Y/N

 6.    If there is an overflow pipe, is it unsanitary?                                                                                               YIN
 7.    Is the area around the spring unfenced?                                                                                                       Y/N

 8.    Can animals have access to within 10 m of the spring source?                                                                                  YIN
 9.    Does the spring lack a surface water diversion ditch above it, or (if                                                                         Y/N
       present) is it nonfunctional?

10. Are there any latrines uphill of the spring?                                                                                                     Y/N

                                                                              Total score of risks .................... /10
Contamination risk score: 9-10 =very high; 6-8 =high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-10)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .




                                                           167
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2.9 Example of sanitary inspection form for surface source
          and abstraction




      ,,   \


           '\
               ' '' \
                   ,,
                        '\,,
                          ' '' '
                               \'
                               \        ''
                                             ''
                                    \

                                        '    \
                                                 '\.
                                                             WH096585




                                                       168
                                                                                                                    ANNEX 2




I        Type of facility           SURFACE SOURCE AND ABSTRACTION

    1.   General information:             Health centre .................................................................... .
                                          Village .............................................................................. .
    2.   Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
    3.   Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
    4.   Date of visit ..................................... .
    5.   Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermorolerant coliform grade ........ .

11       Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

    1.   Is there any human habitation upstream, polluting the source?                                                     YIN
    2. Are there any farm animals upstream, polluting the source?                                                          YIN
    3.   Is there any crop production or industrial pollution upstream?                                                    Y/N
    4.   Is there a risk of landslide or mudflow (causing deforestation)                                                   YIN
         in the catchment area?

    5. Is the intake installation unfenced?                                                                                YIN
    6.   Is the intake unscreened?                                                                                         YIN
    7.   Does the abstraction point lack a minimum-head device (weir                                                       YIN
         or dam to ensure minimum head of water)?

    8. Does the system require a sand or gravel filter?                                                                    YIN
    9.   If there is a filter, is it functioning badly?                                                                    YIN
10.      Is the flow uncontrolled?                                                                                         YIN

                                                                           Total score of risks .................... /10

Contamination risk score: 9-10 = very high; 6-8 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill      Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-10)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .




                                                             169
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2. 10 Example of sanitary inspection form for piped
            distribution




                                            p




   9~


                                                            WH096586




                                170
                                                                                                                  ANNEX 2




       Type of facility           PIPED DISTRIBUTION

 1.    General information:             Health centre .................................................................... .
                                        Village .............................................................................. .
 2.    Code no.-Address ............................................................................................... .
 3.    Water authority/community representative signature ........................ .
 4.    Date of visit ..................................... .
 5.    Water sample taken? ....... Sample no .......... Thermotolerant coliform grade ........ .

11     Specific diagnostic information for assessment                                                                    Risk

 1.    Is there any point of leakage between source and reservoir?                                                        Y/N

 2.    If there are any pressure break boxes, are their covers unsanitary?                                                Y/N

If there is a reservoir:

 3.    Is the inspection cover unsanitary?                                                                                Y/N

 4. Are any air vents unsanitary?                                                                                         Y/N

 5. Is the reservoir cracked or leaking?                                                                                  Y/N

 6.    Are there any leaks in the distribution system?                                                                    Y/N

 7.    Is the area around the tapstand unfenced (dry stone wall and/or                                                    Y/N
       fencing incomplete)?

 8.    Does water accumulate near the tapstand (requires improved                                                         Y/N
       drainage canal)?

 9.    Are there human excreta within 10 m of the tapstand?                                                               Y/N

10.    Is the plinth cracked or eroded?                                                                                   Y/N

11.    Does the tap leak?                                                                                                 Y/N

Contamination risk score: 10-11 = very high; 6-9 = high; 3-5 = intermediate;
                          0-2 =low

Ill    Results and recommendations

The following important points of risk were noted: ................................. (list nos 1-11)
and the authority advised on remedial action.

Signature of sanitarian ........................................ .




                                                           171
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A2. 11 Example of sanitary inspection form for water-treatment
            plant

       General information                              WATER-TREATMENT PLANT

 1.    Date of survey............. / .......... ../. .......... .

 2.    Survey of
                                     Source             Intake              Treatment plant               Distribution

 3.    Carried out by
                                     Name of person                    Agency

 4. Name of supply
                                     State                            District                    Treatment plant

 5. Address .................................................................................................................. .
 6.    Person in charge .................................................................................................... .

 7.    Year started operation ............................................................................................ .

 8.   Area served ................................... Population served ........................................... .

 9.   Treatment-plant capacity                  Designed ............... .            Actual ................................ .

10.    Security of plant                        Fence: Y/N                            Security guard: Y/N

11     Source

 1.          Type of water source: ............... .
                                   Reservoir Stream                                River          Well          Others

Ill    Intake

 1.    Is the intake adequate with respect to:                      Location?                                             Y/N
                                                                    Structure?                                            Y/N
                                                                    Maintenance?                                          Y/N
                                                                    Pollution sources in the vicinity?                    Y/N

IV    Treatment processes employed

 1.    Fine screen

 2.    Grit chamber

 3.    Oil and grease trap

 4. Presedimentation
 5. Predisinfection/oxidation
                                                   Chlorine                      Ozone

 6.   Activated carbon treatment


                                                             172
                                                                                                                    ANNEX 2




 7.   Aeration

 8.   Coagulation and flocculation ................. .
                                   Lime                                  Alum                  Others

 9.   Sedimentation
                              Rectangular                Circular                   Others

10.    Filtration
                              Slow                       Rapid                      Granular carbon

11.    Disinfection
                              Chlorine                   Ozone                      Others

12.    Other processes (specify): ...................................................................................... .




V     Sedimentation

 1.   No. of sedimentation tank: .................................................................................... .

 2.    Frequency of desludging: ....................................................................................... .

 3.   Type of desludging facility: ................................................................................... .

 4.   Method of sludge disposal: .................................................................................... .

 5. General appearance of clarified water: ................................................................... .
 6.   Turbidity (NTU) at inlet: .......................... (NTU) at outlet: ............................... .


VI    Filtration

 1.   No. of filters: ......................................................................................................... .

 2.   Filtration rate: ....................................................................................................... .

 3.   Filter run: .............................................................................................................. .

 4.   Depth of gravel: .................................................................................................... .

 5. Depth of sand: ...................................................................................................... .

VII Backwashing
 1.   Criteria used for initiating backwashing:

      Air scour:
                              Rate                       Duration

      Water scour:
                              Rate                       Duration


                                                             173
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




 2.    Distribution of air and water supply in the sand bed:


        Even                   Uneven

 3.    Capacity of clean water for backwash: .................................................................. ..

 4. Any mud balls or cracks in the filter bed?
       Before backwash

       After backwash

 5. Where does the wash water go? ............................................................................ ..

VIII Fluoridation
 1.    Chemical used: ...................................................................................................... .

 2.    Dosage of chemical: ............................................................................................... .

IX     Chlorination

 1.    Any interruption in chlorination? .......................................................................... .

 2.    Frequency of interruption: .................................................................................... .

 3.    Cause of interruption: ........................................................................................... .

 4. Type of chemical used: .......................................................................................... .
 5. Dosage of chemical: ............................................................................................... .
 6.    Safety equipment and measures: ............................................................................ .

 7.    Reserve stock of disinfectant: ................................................. Quantity ................ .

 8.    Storage conditions: ................................................................................................ .

X      Clear-water tank(s)

 1.    No. of tanks: ......................................................................................................... .

 2.    Capacity of each tank: .......................................................................................... ..

 3.    Concentration of free residual chlorine: ................................................................ ..

 4. pH: ...................................................................................................................... ..
 5.    Chemical used for pH adjustment and its dosage: ................................................ .

 6.    Any leak in the tank? ............................................................................................ ..

 7.    Is the tank properly covered and locked? .............................................................. ..

 8.    Any scum or foreign substances in the tank? ........................................................ ..

 9.    Are air vents and overflow pipes protected by screens? ........................................ ..


                                                             174
                                                                                                                    ANNEX 2




XI    Process control

                                                 Yes                     No                    Frequently
 1.   Jar test:                                  ...................     ..................    ..................
 2.   pH:                                        ...................     ..................    ..................
 3. Free residual chlorine:                      ...................     ..................    ..................
 4.   Colour:                                    ...................     ..................    ..................
 5. Turbidity:                                   ...................     ..................    ..................
 6.   E. coli/ thermotolerant coli:              ...................     ..................    ..................
 7.   Fluoride:                                  ...................     ..................    ..................
 8.   Others:                                    ...................     ..................    ..................

                                          SANITARY INSPECTION


XII Record keeping

 1.   Chemical consumption: ......................................................................................... .
 2.   Process-control tests: .............................................................................................. .

 3.   Bacteriological examination: .................................................................................. .

 4.   Residual chlorine: .................................................................................................. .

 5.   Others: .................................................................................................................. .


XIII Maintenance

                                                       Cleaning                         Calibrating/ oiling/
                                                                                        greasmg
 1.   Screen:
 2.   Pumping facility:

 3.   Chlorine-dosing facility: ........................................ .

 4.   Alum-dosing facility:
 5.   Fluoride-dosing facility:

 6.   Instrument (gauge,
      recording devices, etc.):

 7.   General housekeeping:

 8.   Storage of chemicals:
                                          Adequate                                      Inadequate


                                                             175
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




XIV Personnel
 1.   No. of present staff:
                                       Permanent                     Casual

 2.   Academic level of the plant superintendent or the most senior operator of the
      treatment plant:



 3.   Length of service in present water-treatment plant: .............................................. .

 4.   Total experience in water treatment: ..................................................................... .

XV Complaints received
 1.   From operators: ..................................................................................................... .




 2.   From management: ............................................................................................... .




XVI Problems (if any) with:
                                      Yes                     No                     Description of problems

 1.   Fine screen:

 2.   Grit chamber:

 3.   Oil and grease trap:

 4.   Presedimentation:

 5. Activated carbon:
 6. Aeration:
 7.   Coagulation and
      flocculation:

 8.   Sedimentation:

 9.   Filtration:

10.   Fluoridation:


                                                           176
                                                                                                               ANNEX 2




11.    Disinfection:

12.    Other process:

13.    Process control:

14.    Record keeping:

15.    Maintenance:

XVII        Flow diagram of water works (insert diagram)

XVIII       Remedial measures recommended

 1.    Measures to be taken immediately:




 2.    Measures to be taken later on:




XIX      Have problems identified in the previous sanitary survey been corrected?




Signature of inspector: ................................................................................................... .




                                                            177
Annex 3

Examples of possible responsibilities
of surveillance staff



A3.1 National surveillance team
Members of the national surveillance team may be responsible for:
• advising at the highest level on surveillance policy and strategy to ensure the
   maintenance and development of suitable supplies of safe water;
• formulating and revising technical standards for the control of drinking-
  water quality;
• coordinating the supervision, control, and evaluation of local surveillance
  staff and operator-level quality-control staff, where appropriate;
• coordinating and promoting the development of water surveillance at all
  levels;
   promoting and advising on the establishment of laboratories;
  supporting and coordinating the training of staff;
• developing and managing a national database for strategic planning purposes;
   attending annual meetings with the national planning authority and appro-
   priate water-supply and construction authorities to discuss and agree sector
  plans.


A3.2 Provincial water surveillance coordinator
Responsibilities of the provincial water surveillance coordinator may include:
• planning and coordinating annual water-surveillance programmes with dis-
   trict coordinators and the provincial head of environmental health;
• coordinating the supply of equipment and consumables;
• making regular (e.g. quarterly) supervisory visits to each district, accompanying
   the district coordinator on follow-up visits to make spot checks on sanitar-
   ians' performance of duties, and noting deficiencies on visit reports;
• detecting errors in reporting and methodology and correcting them;
• collecting and checking monthly surveillance reports from districts and
   maintaining an up-to-date surveillance database;
• informing the provincial head about priorities for improvement, results not
   meeting water-quality standards, and progress with surveillance;
• sending summary surveillance reports to the provincial water-supply agen-
   cies; where necessary, drawing to their attention quality and service levels

                                       178
                                                                               ANNEX 3




    presenting a risk to the health of the consumer; deciding on the remedial
    action to be taken with the appropriate authorities;
•   coordinating periodic meetings with senior staff of water-supply agencies
    to discuss the scope of, and dividing lines between, quality-control and
    surveillance duties;
•   formulating advice for emergencies and proposing medium-term provincial
    strategies to remedy deficiencies in water-supply services that will reduce the
    risk to the consumer;
•   preparing annual reports on all surveillance, monitoring, and quality-control
    activities in districts; identifying in these reports the areas at greatest risk, and
    the deficiencies in the numbers, competence, and training of surveillance
    staff;
•   coordinating programme-evaluation and retraining meetings;
•   promoting remedial action and good operation and maintenance strategies;
•   assessing the workload of the district and provincial water laboratories,
    and coordinating analytical quality control and the referral of samples
    both between these laboratories themselves and between them and those at
    national level;
•   arranging for monthly reports to be sent to the national surveillance team.



A3.3 District water surveillance coordinators
District water surveillance coordinators may be responsible for:
• planning and coordinating the annual water-surveillance programme with
    the district surveillance team, the head of environmental health, and the
    provincial surveillance coordinator;
• supervising and making spot-checks on sanitarians' surveys by making field
    visits to urban and rural areas; reporting findings to the provincial surveil-
    lance coordinator and then to the head of environmental health;
• validating reports and quality results, deciding whether or not emergencies
    exist, and verifying "odd" results by making follow-up visits to the field;
• collecting monthly urban and rural surveillance reports; maintaining and
    updating an archive of data including an inventory of all water supplies,
    piped coverage levels, and rural piped and unpiped supplies, and a similar
    archive covering sanitation (if this is also the responsibility of the surveillance
    agency);
• obtaining water-quality reports from hospital laboratories and ensuring that
    the results are compared with the appropriate sanitary inspection report;
• discussing with the provincial water surveillance coordinator (and ultimately
    the head of environmental health) both routine and anomalous results, and
    identifying and reporting high-risk communities;
• sending urban water-surveillance reports to managers of the local water
    authorities;

                                          179
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




•   meeting urban water-supply operators and managers, identifying high-risk
    zones in their supply, and agreeing joint quality-control arrangements; draw-
    ing the managers' attention to risks and suggesting emergency action, where
    appropriate;
•   giving advice on emergency measures, including warnings to the public, and
    agreeing responsibilities for action with other concerned agencies;
•   arranging for routine monthly reports to be sent to the provincial water
    surveillance coordinator;
•   coordinating and supporting community-based hygiene education activities
    and training in sanitary inspection for community-based volunteers;
•   keeping records of community volunteers and encouraging community
    involvement in water-supply surveillance and improvement;
•   coordination of training for sanitary technicians in work with, and provision
    of advice to, communities;
•   checking that sanitary technicians are providing good technical advice and
    support to the community for remedial action and improvement;
•   making spot-checks to ensure that recommendations for remedial action are
    acted on, and reporting deficiencies to the provincial surveillance coordinator
    and thence to the head of environmental health;
•   participating in annual intersectoral strategic planning meetings for improv-
    ing water-supply services; presenting evidence of the need for improvement
    in specific areas;
•   investigating water-related outbreaks of disease and arranging for emergency
    action for community protection;
•   providing an annual report on urban and rural levels of sanitation service .



A3.4 Water surveillance sanitary technicians
Water surveillance sanitary technicians may be responsible for:
• carrying out routine (e.g. weekly) monitoring of water-distribution systems,
   including fixed-point and random sampling;
• checking and recording chlorine residuals on the spot, and sampling from
   sites showing low levels (e.g. <0.1 mg!litre free chlorine) for bacteriological
   analysis; transporting samples to the appropriate laboratory;
• entering analytical results in surveillance reports and making weekly reports
   to the surveillance coordinator;
• intensifying the monitoring of high-risk water-supply zones, such as those
   where pressure is low, leakage high, the results of bacteriological tests bad, or
   standpipes are used;
• carrying out special sampling programmes in periurban and urban areas
   unserved by piped systems and preparing reports on them;
• informing the surveillance coordinator and head of environmental health of



                                        180
                                                                          ANNEX 3




    high-risk zones as soon as they are identified, and indicating by appropriate
    means any advice to be given to the community in an emergency;
•   periodically providing samples to the provincial laboratory for chemical
    analysis and obtaining the results for inclusion in the district archive;
•   liaising with local treatment-plant operators and making spot-checks to
    ensure that they are keeping adequate daily records; noting deficiencies and
    entering them on surveillance reports;
•   maintaining a register of all major sources of pollution of water resources, and
    carrying out periodic surveys of these water resources (where this is the
    responsibility of the surveillance agency);
•   taking samples of water from urban water sources, and sending them to the
    appropriate laboratory for full analysis;
•   undertaking water source surveys;
•   carrying out sanitary surveys of community water supplies;
•   providing summary advisory reports to community representatives, pointing
    out essential remedial action and, wherever possible, providing technical
    support for improvement;
•   keeping and extending an inventory of all water sources and their location,
    together with a sanitation inventory (where this is the responsibility of the
    surveillance agency);
•   preparing a monthly summary of all sanitary surveys, including the advice
    provided on remedial action, and sending this summary to the district
    surveillance coordinator;
•   notifYing the district-level surveillance coordinator of high-risk facilities,
    and requesting support from the coordinator for follow-up inspection and
    analysis;
•   drawing up an annual programme of hygiene education, and requesting the
    coordinator to provide the necessary materials and technical support for its
    implementation;
•   developing and implementing a training programme for community-level
    surveillance of water resources and source protection, and requesting the
    coordinator to provide the necessary technical support and materials;
•   liaising with community surveillance volunteers, receiving their reports, and
    providing advice and training.




                                       181
Annex 4

Sampling methods for bacteriological
testing



When water samples are collected for analysis, care should be taken to ensure that
there is no external contamination of the samples. Unless valid samples are
collected, the results of the subsequent analysis may be misleading.
     Several types of bottle may be used for sampling, but glass bottles are best.
These should have securely fitting stoppers or caps with nontoxic liners, and both
bottles and stoppers should be sterilized. Each cap should have a metal sleeve clear
of the screw thread to ensure that the risk of contaminating the water sample is
minimized. Cotton wool plugs and paper caps should be avoided as they tend to
fall off during and after sampling and increase the risk of contamination. The
bottles should hold at least 200 ml of water.
     Whenever chlorine is used for disinfection, a chlorine residual may be present
in the water after sampling and will continue to act on any bacteria in the sample;
the results of the microbiological analysis may therefore not be indicative of the
true bacteriological content of the water. To overcome this difficulty, it is common
procedure to add sodium thiosulfate to the sample, which immediately inactivates
any residual chlorine but does not affect the microorganisms that may be present.
The sodium thiosulfate should be added to the sample bottles before they are
sterilized. For 200-ml samples, four or five drops of aqueous sodium thiosulfate
solution (IOOg/litre) should be added to each clean sample bottle. The stopper is
loosely inserted into the bottle, and a brown paper or aluminium foil cover is tied
to the neck of the bottle to prevent dust from entering. The bottle is then sterilized
in a hot-air oven for 1 hour at 160 or 170 °C for 40 minutes or in an autoclave
at 121 °C for 20 minutes. If no other facilities are available, a portable sterilizer or
pressure cooker can be used, but sterilization will then take 30-45 minutes. To
prevent the stopper from getting stuck during sterilization, a strip of brown paper
(7 5 X 10 mm) should be inserted between the stopper and the neck of the bottle.
     For reasons of cost, bottles should be reused. Mter the samples have been
analysed in the regional or central laboratory, bottles should be resterilized and,
if possible, returned to the sender.
     Water can be divided into three basic types for the purpose of sampling:
          water from a tap in a distribution system or from a fixed pump outlet, etc.
          water from a watercourse (river, lake, etc.) or a tank
          water from a dug well, etc., where sampling is more difficult than from
          an open watercourse.

                                          182
                                                         ANNEX 4




A4.1 Sampling from a tap or pump outlet

A. Clean the tap
Remove from the tap any
attachments that may cause
splashing. Using a clean cloth,
wipe the outlet to remove any
dirt.


                                  "-
                                  ~
                                  a
                                  ~L--------=~~~------~~L-----~

B. Open the tap
Turn on the tap at maximum
flow and let the water run for
1-2 minutes.
Note: Some investigators do
not continue to stages C and
D but take the sample at this
stage; in this case, the tap
should not be adjusted or
turned off, but left to run at
maximum flow. The results
obtained in this way will
provide information on the
quality of the water as con-
sumed. If the procedure is
continued to stages C and D,
however, the results represent
the quality of the water ex-
cluding contamination by the
tap.




                                       183
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




C. Sterilize the tap
Sterilize the tap for a minute
with the flame from a gas
burner, cigarette lighter, or
an ignited alcohol-soaked
cotton-wool swab.


                                  0;


                                  ~
                                  a
                                  ~L__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _L_L_~




D. Open the tap before
sampling
Carefully turn on the tap and
allow the water to flow for 1-
2 minutes at a medium flow
rate. Do not adjust the flow
after it has been set.



                                               ~~~
                                  !~ ~----------------------~~------~        11




E. Open the sterilized bottle
Take out a bottle and carefully
unscrew the cap or pull out
the stopper.




                                  ~
                                  0;
                                  a
                                  ~L------~------------------------~




                                         184
                                                                  ANNEX 4




F. Fill the bottle
While holding the cap and
protective cover face down-
wards (to prevent entry of
dust, which may contaminate
the sample), immediately hold
the bottle under the water jet,
and fill.
                                   8i
                                   i§l
                                   a

                                   ~~-------'----------------------~~

A small air space should be left
to make shaking before analy-
sis easier.




                                               water   ----+---


                                   i
                                   a

                                   ~ ~--------------------------------~

G. Stopper or cap the bottle
Place the stopper in the bottle
or screw on the cap and fix the
brown paper protective cover
in place with the string.




                                   ~
                                   a

                                   ~~----~--------------------------~




                                         185
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




A4.2 Sampling from a watercourse or reservoir
Open the sterilized bottle as described in section A4.1.

A. Fill the bottle
Holding the bottle by the                                  -
lower part, submerge it to a
depth of about 20 cm, with
the mouth facing slightly                                           20 cm
upwards. If there is a current,
the bottle mouth should face            ::::::=::=:::
towards the current.                                                   ~
    The bottle should then
be capped or stoppered as
described previously.



A4.3 Sampling from dug wells and similar sources

A. Prepare the bottle
With a piece of string, attach a
clean weight to the sampling
bottle.




                                                clove h1tch - - {




                                   ,_
                                   ~             stone - - - - - - -
                                   a

                                   ~~-----------~---~
                                                186
                                                           ANNEX 4




B. Attach the bottle to the
string
Take a 20-m length of clean
string rolled around a stick
and tie it to the bottle string.
Open the bottle as described
in section A4.1.


                                   ~
                                   a
                                   ~~----------~~~--------------~

C. Lower the bottle
Lower the bottle, weighed
down by the weight, into the
well, unwinding the string
slowly. Do not allow the
bottle to touch the sides of
the well.




D. Fill the bottle
Immerse the bottle com-
pletely in the water and lower
it well below the surface with-
out hitting the bottom or dis-
turbing any sediment.




                                       187
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




E. Raise the bottle
Once the bottle is judged to
be filled, rewind the string on
the stick to bring up the
bottle. If the bottle is com-
pletely full, discard some
water to provide an air space.
Stopper or cap the bottle as
described previously.




                                  188
Annex 5

Multiple-tube method for
thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms


In the multiple-tube method, a series of tubes containing a suitable selective broth
culture medium is inoculated with test portions of a water sample. Mter a
specified incubation time at a given temperature, each tube showing gas forma-
tion is regarded as "presumptive positive" since the gas indicates the possible
presence of coliforms. However, gas may also be produced by other organisms,
and so a subsequent confirmatory test is essential. The two tests are known
respectively as the presumptive test and the confirmatory test.
     For the confirmatory test, a more selective culture medium is inoculated with
material taken from the positive tubes. Mter an appropriate incubation time, the
tubes are examined for gas formation as before. The most probable number (MPN)
of bacteria present can then be estimated from the number of tubes inoculated
and the number of positive tubes obtained in the confirmatory test, using spe-
cially devised statistical tables. This technique is known as the MPN method.

A5.1 Inoculation
Different test portions to provide tenfold serial dilution steps may be used, the
dilutions being based on the anticipated number of coliform bacteria in the water
sample being tested. The reliability of the result obtained depends on the number
of tubes inoculated with each test portion; in certain instances, the number can
be reduced to three in each dilution step. Each combination of inoculated tubes
will have its own table of MPN values. Typical volumes for analysis are given in
Table 4.4 (p. 62).

A5.2 Unpolluted and treated water
Water in or entering the distribution system may generally be assumed to contain
little or no pollution. In this case, it is recommended that one 50-ml plus five 10-
ml volumes of water sample should be inoculated into the tubes; five tubes should
each contain 10 ml and one tube 50 ml of double-strength medium.

A5.3 Polluted water
Water suspected to be more highly contaminated, e.g. untreated water from
certain raw water sources, should be examined using different inoculation vol-
umes in tenfold dilution steps. The following inoculations are normally made:

                                        189
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




          10 ml of sample to each of five tubes containing 10 ml of double-strength
          medium;
          1.0 ml of sample to each of five tubes containing 10 ml of single-strength
          medium;
          1.0 ml of a 1 : 10 dilution of sample (i.e. 0.1 ml of sample) to each of five
          tubes containing 10 ml of single-strength medium.
     If the sample is expected to be highly contaminated, aliquots of 1.0 ml of
tenfold serial dilutions from each dilution step are inoculated into five tubes that
each contain 10ml of single-strength medium.
     If the workload is very heavy and the time available is limited, the number of
tubes can be reduced to three in each series. Statistically, however, inoculation of
five tubes with each sample volume produces a more reliable MPN result.


A5.4 Equipment and supplies
The following laboratory equipment and glassware are essential:
•   Autoclave: required for sterilizing the culture media. Its size should be deter-
    mined by the number and type of samples to be taken. Operation of the
    autoclave should be strictly in accordance with the manufacturer's instruc-
    tions and should ensure that all the air in the chamber is replaced by steam.
    Sterilization should be achieved in not more than 30 minutes. Strict ad-
    herence to recommended sterilization temperatures and times for different
    types of culture media is essential. Racks are needed to hold tubes and bottles
    of prepared culture media in the autoclave.
•   Incubator(s) or water-baths: must each be fitted with a temperature control
    and should be capable of maintaining a uniform temperature correct to 35 or
    37 ::±:: 0.5 °C and/or 44 or 44.5 ::±:: 0.25 °C. The choice of temperature
    depends on the indicator bacteria and the medium used. The temperature of
    incubators and water-baths fitted with thermometers placed at representative
    points should be monitored periodically (preferably daily). Stainless-steel
    racks should be fitted to hold sample tubes.
•   Balance: needed for weighing powdered culture medium. It should have an
    accuracy of 0.05 g. A weighing scoop is also required. (No balance is required
    if culture media are available in suitable preweighed quantities.)
•    Water distillation apparatus, hose, and container: required to produce non-
    toxic water, i.e. water free from any substances that can interfere with
    bacterial growth. The container for the distilled water should have a volume
    of at least 5 litres and be fitted with a tap.
    Pipettes: 1 ml and 10 ml, with cotton plugs at the mouthpiece, are required.
    The 1-ml pipettes should be graduated in 0.1-ml increments and are used for
    preparing dilutions; the 10-ml pipettes are used for the addition of samples
    to tubes containing media. Any pipettes with chipped or broken tips should



                                         190
                                                                         ANNEX 5




    be discarded. Glass pipettes can be conveniently stored in a sterilizable metal
    container; alternatively, disposable plastic pipettes can be used. A separate
    container should be employed for each size of pipette. Pipettes may also be
    wrapped individually in paper and heat-sterilized. Pipette canisters and bulbs
    are also needed, as is a container for discarded pipettes.
•   Test-tubes and racks: tubes can be 20 X 150 mm in size for 10-ml sample
    volumes plus 10 ml of culture medium (screw caps are not recommended for
    fermentation media). The racks should be large enough to accommodate
    culture tubes of the largest diameter used.
•   Bottles: used for the larger volumes consisting of 50 ml of sample and 50 ml
    of culture medium. They should have loose-fitting caps and ideally be cali-
    brated with 50-ml and 100-ml marks.
•   Media preparation equipment: glass or stainless-steel containers (usually
    Basks) are required. Any heating equipment and stirrers used in the prepara-
    tion of media should be clean and free from soluble toxic materials.
•   Gas burner: a Bunsen or similar burner is adequate.
•   Culture tubes containing inverted vials (Durham tubes): each tube should be
    large enough for a vial, completely filled with medium, to be submerged in it.
    Inoculation loop and holder: lengths of 24- or 26-gauge wire (7.5-10cm)
    should be used. Nichrome wire is acceptable, but platinum-iridium is better.
    The wire is set in a handle made of metal or glass, of diameter similar to that
    of a pencil. To make the inoculation loop, the wire is bent to form a circle 3-
    4 mm in diameter.
•   Dispenser: for sodium thiosulfate solution (see below).
•   Cleaning and maintenance equipment: items such as brushes for cleaning
    tubes, bottles, etc., a waste bin, and a tool kit are required.
•   Safety equipment. there should be an adequate first-aid kit and a fire extin-
    guisher or other means of fire control in every laboratory.
•    General laboratory equipment: various sizes of round and Erlenmeyer Bask,
    beakers, stands, glass or unbreakable plastic measuring Basks, spatulas, etc.
    are required.

The following equipment is also desirable in a laboratory:

•   Refrigerator: for the storage of prepared culture media.
•   Hot air sterilizer: for sterilizing pipettes.

The following consumable items are required:

•   Culture medium: Table A5.1 describes the uses for the various media; see also
    section A5.5.
    Laboratory disinfectant. for cleaning laboratory surfaces and the pipette dis-
    card bin.
•   Detergent: for washing glassware, etc.
•   Sodium thiosulfote solution: required when chlorinated supplies are tested.

                                       191
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




     Sodium thiosulfate neutralizes any residual chlorine in samples at the time of
     collection, preventing it from acting on any microorganisms present in water
     samples.
•    Autoclave tape.
•    Diluent: typical diluents include Ringer's solution and phosphate-buffered
     saline.


Table A5.1 Culture media for MPNa
Medium            Uses                       Incubator        Remarks
                                           temperature

MacConkey         Presumpt1ve 1Solat1on 35 :+: 0 5°C or       Traditional med1um for the
broth             of col1form bactena   37 :+: 0 5°C          presumptive 1Solat1on of col1form
                                                              bactena by MPN The quality of
                                                              bile salts can vary and may
                                                              affect the result
Lauryl tryptose   Presumptive              35 :+: 0 5°C or
(lactose) broth   isolation of             37 :+: 0 5°C
                  col1form bactena
                  Conf1rmat1on of          44°C
                  thermotolerant
                  coliform bacteria
Improved          Presumptive              35 :+: 0 5°C or    Th1s IS a select1ve med1um
formate           ISOlatiOn of             37 :+: 0 5°C       because 1t contains chemically
lactose           col1form bactena                            def1ned nutnents that can be
glutamate                                                     util1zed only by a l1m1ted
med1um                                                        number of bactenal spec1es
                                                              The composition of the
                                                              med1um IS complex and spec1al
                                                              care is requ1red dunng
                                                              preparation
Bnll1ant green    Confirmation of          35 :+: 0 5°C or    Media for gas production
lactose (bile)    col1form bactena         37 :+: 05°C
broth,            Conf1rmat1on of          44°C
EC                thermotolerant
                  coliform bactena
Tryptone water    Production of indole     44°C               The formation of Indole,
                  for conf1rmat1on of                         detected by the addition of
                  Eschench1a coli                             Kovacs reagent" to tryptone
                                                              water after 1ncubat1on, w1th
                                                              gas production from lactose at
                                                              44 oc indicates the presence of
                                                              E co/1

' Adapted from ISO 9308-2 1990 Detect1on and enumeration of col1form organ1sms. thermotolerant
  col1form organ1sms, and presumptive Eschench1a co/1-Part 2 Multiple tube (most probable number)
  method
b To make Kovacs reagent, dissolve 5g p-d1methylam1nobenzaldehyde 1n 75ml amyl (or 1soamyl)

  alcohol, and add 25 ml concentrated hydrochlonc ac1d slowly Store at 4 oc 1n the dark


                                              192
                                                                            ANNEX 5




A5.5 Culture media and dilution water
Commercially available dehydrated media simplify the preparation of culture
broths and are therefore recommended for laboratory work. Various manufactur-
ers produce these media as powders, which can then be easily weighed out,
dissolved in distilled water, and dispensed into culture tubes before sterilization.


A5.5.1 Preparation of media
Media should be prepared in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, as
follows:
(a) Dissolve the stated amount of the dehydrated medium in distilled water to
     obtain the double-strength or single-strength presumptive medium (for con-
     firmatory analysis, only single-strength medium is used).
(b) Dispense the requisite volume into culture tubes containing an inverted
     Durham tube, and cap the culture tubes.
(c) Sterilize in an autoclave or pressure cooker at 115 °C for 10 minutes (or in
     accordance with the manufacturer's specifications). It is particularly impor-
     tant that media containing disaccharides, e.g. lactose, are not autoclaved at
     higher temperatures.
(d) The sterilized medium may be stored at room temperature (approximately
     25 °C) or, ideally, at 2-8 °C. Media should in any case be warmed to room
     temperature before use to ensure that all components have redissolved. In
     addition, since several dyes are light-sensitive, the solution should be pro-
     tected from exposure to light.


A5.5.2 Preparation of dilution water
A special buffered, sterilized water is used to make sample dilutions for inocula-
tion into the culture medium. It is prepared from a concentrated stock solution
of phosphate buffer. To make the stock solution, dissolve 34g of potassium
dihydrogen phosphate (KH 2 P0 4 ) in 500ml of distilled water. The pH should be
checked with a pH-meter; it should be 7.2. It can be increased if necessary by
adding a few drops of sodium hydroxide solution (4.0g dissolved in 1000ml of
distilled water). Then add sufficient distilled water to make up to 1 litre. When
the stock solution is not in use, it should be stored in a tightly closed bottle at
4-10 °C, to prevent microbial growth.
     When using the dilution water, add 1.25 ml of stock phosphate solution to 1
litre of distilled water and dispense into bottles for sterilization in the autoclave.
Before sterilization, loosen the stoppers of the bottles. Sterilize for 15 minutes at
121 °C. Tighten the stoppers after sterilization and store the dilution water in a
clean place until needed.
     An alternative dilution water can be prepared by the addition of magnesium
chloride and has been shown to give a slightly higher recovery rate. Other

                                         193
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




alternatives include a 0.1% solution of peptone in distilled water (final pH 6.8),
Ringer's solution, and physiological saline (9g of sodium chloride per litre).
These should be sterilized after dispensing into bottles, as described above.



A5.6 Application to unpolluted water
A5.6.1 Procedure
The procedure to be used for testing relatively unpolluted water, such as treated
water from waterworks, is described below.




A. Remove the cap from the
sample bottle.




B. With the stopper in posi-
tion, shake the bottle vigor-
ously to achieve a homogene-
ous dispersion of bacteria. (If
the bottle is completely full,
remove the stopper and dis-
card about 20-30 ml of water;
then replace the stopper and
shake. This ensures thorough
mixing.)                          !      l ~
                                  ~L----"~------------~--~~------~




                                       194
                                                                   ANNEX 5




C. With a sterile 10-ml
pipette, inoculate 10 ml of
the sample into each of five
tubes containing 10 ml of
presumptive broth (double
strength). Add 50 ml of sam-
ple to a tube containing 50 ml
of presumptive broth. It is
advisable to shake the tubes
gently to distribute the sample
uniformly throughout the
medium.

                                            SAMPLE




                                        j~mi


                                  I
                                  a

                                  ~~------------------------------~

D. Incubate the tubes at
                                                              oc or 37 oc

                                      ~
                                                         35
35 °C or 37°C for 24 hours.


                                      24 hours




                                                     ~                J=




                                      195
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




E. At the end of the 24-hour
incubation period, examine
each tube for the presence of
gas. If present, gas can be
seen in the Durham tube. If
none is visible, gently shake
the tube; if any effer-
vescence (streams of tiny
bubbles) is observed, the tube
should be considered positive.   I
                                 a
                                 ~
                                     ~----------------------------~


F. Using a table like the one
shown here, record the num-
ber of positive tubes after 24
hours.
                                             ,,   (p

                                             If fL t'
                                                       ~   -\

                                                           jl. ~
                                                                 11,
                                                                       lA~
                                                                       1..,....




                                        Presumptive results for 24-hour 1ncubat1on




G. Reincubate negative tubes
                                                                                       oc or 37 oc

                                       ~
                                                                                  35
for a further 24-hour period.
At the end of this period,
check the tubes again for gas
production as in E above. Gas          24 hours
production at the end of
either 24 or 48 hours' incuba-
tion is presumed to be due to
the presence of coliforms in
the sample.
                                                           r=c                                 l=




                                       196
                                                                          ANNEX 5




H. Record the number of
positive tubes after 48 hours.
                                       ,,   o(jo   ~   ·\ 11.
                                                                '"~
                                       , ,, , ,"
                                       If lt t'            ~    ,, ~
                                                                1 .....




                                 Presumptive results for 48-hour 1ncubation




I. The     confirmatory test
should be carried out at the
end of both the 24-hour
and the 48-hour incubation.
Using a sterile loop, transfer
one or two drops from each
presumptive positiVe tube
into two tubes containing re-
spectively confirmatory broth
and tryptone water. (Sterilize
the inoculation loop before
each transfer by flaming and
allow to cool.)


J. To confirm the presence of
thermotolerant coliforms, in-
cubate the subculture tubes
from each presumptive posi-
tive tube for 24 hours at 44 ±
0.5°C.




                                 197
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




K. At the end of 24 hours'
incubation, examine each
broth tube for growth and the                      ,,           ~   ·\   11.
presence of gas in the Durham                      If IL
                                                          <>-
                                                                               "'
tube. Enter the results on the
table as shown.



                                  "'
                                  ~
                                  o            Results of confirmatory test
                                  ~ ~--------------------------------~

L. To each tube of tryptone
water, add approximately
0.1 ml of Kovacs reagent (see
Table A5.1, p. 192) and mix
gently. The presence of indole
is indicated by a red colour in                 01 ml
the Kovacs reagent, forming a
film over the aqueous phase of
the medium.
                                  i"'
                                  0


                                   ~ ~--------------------------------~

M. Confirmatory tests posi-
tive for indole, growth, and
gas production show the
                                                  1-'-' +-(,.-+~-+--\+-11.+-11-1' ~
presence of E. coli. Growth
and gas production in the
absence of indole confirms
thermotolerant coliforms.
                                                    /{ILI•II,•\

                                                                                    -
                                                                                    ~ ~




                                  .,
                                  tli     Confirmatory test for faecal col1forms
                                  ~              (24-hour 1ncubat1on)




                                        198
                                                                          ANNEX 5




Table A5.2 MPN values per 100ml of sample and 95% confidence
           limits for various combinations of positive and negative
           results (when one 50-m/ and five 10-m/ test portions are
           used)
No. of tubes giving a positive      MPN (per 100 ml)
reaction                                                     95% confidence limits

1 of 50ml         5 of 10ml                                  Lower           Upper

0                      0                   <1
0                                           1                  <1               4
0                      2                    2                  <1               6
0                      3                    4                  <1              11
0                      4                    5                   1              13
0                      5                    7                   2              17
                       0                    2                  <1               6
                                            3                  <1               9
                       2                    6                   1              15
                       3                    9                   2              21
                       4                   16                   4              40
                       5                  >18




A5.6.2 Determination of MPN
For treated water, where one 50-ml and five 10-ml portions are inoculated, the
MPN can be found from the test results by means of Table A5.2.


A5.7 Application to polluted water (full method)
A5.7.1 Procedure
The procedure to be used for the testing of water that is expected to be polluted,
even though it may have been treated, is shown below and is essentially similar to
that described in section A5.6, with the exception that several dilutions are used.




                                       199
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




A. Arrange three rows of five
tubes each in a test-tube rack.
                                                       Presumptive medium,
The tubes in the first row (F 1)                       double-strength, 10 ml
hold 10 ml of double-strength
presumptive medium while
the tubes in the second and              F1
third rows (F2, F3) contain
10 ml of single-strength pre-
sumptive medium.
                                                       Presumpt1ve medium,
                                                       single-strength, 10 ml




                                                       Presumptive medium,
                                                       smgle-strength, 10 ml




                                   ~     F3            ~~~~~
                                   ~ ~------------------------------~
B. With a sterile pipette add
10 ml of sample to each of the
five tubes in row F 1.




                                              SAMPLE




                                              \~
                                        F1
                                   <a

                                   ~
                                   a

                                   ~~------------------------------~
                                         200
                                                           ANNEX 5




C. With a sterile pipette, add
lml of sample to each of the
five tubes in row F2.




                                           SAMPLE




                                           \~
                                      F2
                                 "-

                                 ~
                                 a

                                 ~~------------------------------~




                                       201
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




D. Prepare a 1:10 dilution of
the sample by adding 1ml
of sample to 9 ml of dilu-
tion water (use a 1-ml sterile
pipette). Recap the bottle con-
taining the diluted sample and
shake it vigorously.




                                              SAMPLE
                                                       \   1 ml




                                                             \
                                                                  stenle
                                                                  dilut1on
                                                                  water
                                                                  (1 10)
                                  i"'
                                  a

                                  ~L-------------------------------~




                                        202
                                                                      ANNEX 5




E. With another sterile pi-
pette add 1 ml of the 1: 10 di-
lution to each of the five tubes
in row F3.




                                             1.10




                                        F3
                                   "'
                                   ~
                                   a

                                   ~L-------------------------------~
F. After gently shaking the                              35 oc or 37 oc


                                         ~
tubes to mix the contents, in-
cubate the rack with the 15
tubes at 35 oc or 3rC for 24
hours. Then proceed in the               24 hours
same way as for unpolluted
water.



                                                    =C                   E


A5.7.2 Determination of MPN
The MPN is found in a similar way to that described in section A5.6.2 but,
because of the large number of tubes involved, a more complicated table-Table
A5.3-must be used.
     The following example shows how the results are obtained.
     Suppose that, after confirmation of the presence of thermotolerant (faecal)
coliforms, the following results are obtained:
        5 positive tubes in row F 1 (sample volume inoculated, 10 ml)
        3 positive tubes in row F2 (sample volume inoculated, 1 ml)
        1 positive tube in row F3 (sample volume inoculated, 0.1 ml).

                                         203
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table A5.3 MPN values per 100ml of sample and 95% confidence
           limits for various combinations of positive and negative
           results (when five 10-ml, five 1-m/ and five 0.1 m/ test
           portions are used)
                                                  MPN (per    95% confidence
No. of tubes giving a positive reaction :          100ml)         limits

5 of 10ml       5 of 1 ml       5 of 0.1 ml                  Lower      Upper

0                   0                0                <2      <1           7
0                                    0                 2      <1           7
0                   2                0                 4      <1          11
                    0                0                 2      <1           7
                    0                1                 4      <1          11
                    1                0                 4      <1          11
                    1                                  6      <1          15
2                   0                0                 5      <1          13
2                   0                1                 7        1         17
2                                    0                 7        1         17
2                   1                1                 9        2         21
2                   2                0                 9        2         21
2                   3                0                12        3         28
3                   0                0                 8                  19
3                   0                1                11       2          25
3                   1                0                11       2          25
3                                    1                14       4          34
3                   2                0                14       4          34
3                   2                1                17       5          46
3                   3                0                17       5          46
4                   0                0                13       3          31
4                   0                                 17       5          46
4                                    0                17       5          46
4                                    1                21       7          63
4                                    2                26       9          78
4                   2                0                22       7          67
4                   2                1                26       9          78
4                   3                0                27       9          80
4                   3                1                33      11          93
4                   4                0                34      12          93
5                   0                0                23       7          70
5                   0                1                31      11          89
5                   0                2                43      15         110
5                                    0                33      11          93
5                                                     46      16         120
5                                    2                63      21         150
5                   2                0                49      17         130
5                   2                                 70      23         170
5                   2                2                94      28         220
5                   3                0                79      25         190
5                   3                1               110      31         250
5                   3                2               140      37         340
5                   3                3               180      44         500


                                            204
                                                                            ANNEX 5




Table A5.3 (continued)
                                                  MPN (per          95% confidence
No. of tubes giving a positive reaction :          100ml)               limits

5 of 10ml       5 of 1 ml       5of0.1ml                          Lower        Upper

5                   4                0               130            35           300
5                   4                1               170            43           490
5                   4                2               220            57           700
5                   4                3               280            90           850
5                   4                4               350           120          1000
5                   5                0               240            68           750
5                   5                1               350           120          1000
5                   5                2               540           180          1400
5                   5                3               920           300          3200
5                   5                4              1600           640          5800
5                   5                5             >1800


     The results can thus be coded as 5-3-1; they represent the confirmatory test
for thermotolerant coliforms. Table A5.3 indicates that a coded result of 5-3-1
(5 X 10 m! positive, 3 X 1 ml positive, 1 X 0.1 ml positive) gives an MPN value
of 110, i.e. the water sample contains an estimated 110 coliforms per 100 ml.
     Next, consider an example of heavily polluted water. The procedure outlined
above may give a coded result of 5-5-5. Such a result does not give a definite
MPN value. When such heavy contamination is suspected it is usual to inoculate
more than three dilutions in a series of factors of 10. This series of 10-fold dilu-
tions should be made in such a way that a negative result is likely for at least the
highest dilution incubated. If 5 X 1. 0 ml, 5 X 0.1 m!, 5 X 0. 01 m!, and 5 X
0.001 ml are initially inoculated and a confirmed coded result of 5-5-4-1 is ob-
tained, only three of these results should then be used to obtain the MPN value from
Table A5 .3. These should be selected by choosing the smallest sample volume (in this
case, 0.1 ml) for which all the tubes give a positive result, and the two next suc-
ceeding higher dilutions. The coded result of these three volumes is then used to ob-
tain the MPN value from Table A5.3. In the above example, the result 5-4-1 would
be chosen, representing volumes of0.1, 0.01, and 0.001 ml of the sample. The MPN
value obtained from Table A5.3 should be multiplied by 100 to obtain the MPN
for this particular sample (see below); in this case, the result is 17 000 per 100 ml.
     Sometimes the laboratory worker may find it difficult to determine the
multiplying factor to be used to obtain the appropriate MPN for the sample
tested. A simple way to determine the MPN is to divide the MPN value obtained
from Table A5.3 by the sample volume represented by the middle number in the
chosen code. For example, consider a chosen code of 5-2-0, in which the 2
represents a sample volume of0.01 ml (see Table A5.4). From Table A5.3, MPN
for a code of 5-2-0 is 49. The MPN value for the sample tested will therefore be:
    (49/0.01) = 49 X 100 = 4900.

                                            205
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Table A5.4 Example of multiplying factors for determination of the
           MPN for different dilutions of sample
                   No. of tubes giving a positive reaction           Coded     Multiplying
                                                                      result    factor for
            5 of       5 of      5 of          5 of         5 of     chosen       MPN
Example     1ml       0.1ml    0.01 ml       0.001 ml    0.0001 ml

             5            5      2              0            0       5-2-0         100
2            5            5      4              1            0       5-4-1         100
3            5            3      0              0            0       5-3-0          10
4            5            5      5              3            1       5-3-1        1000
5            0            1      0              0            0       0-1-0          10




Table AS.S MPN values per 100 m/ of sample and 95% confidence
           limits for various combinations of positive and negative
           results (when three 10-ml, three 1-ml, and three 0. 1-m/
           test portions are used)
                                                        MPN (per        95% confidence
No. of tubes giving a positive reaction                  100ml)             limits

3 of 10ml          3 of 1 ml      3 of 0.1 ml                         Lower         Upper

0                     0                                     3           <1             9
0                                        0                  3           <1            13
0                     0                  0                  4           <1            20
1                     0                                     7            1            21
                                         0                  7            1            23
                      1                  1                 11            3            36
                      2                  0                 11            3            36
2                     0                  0                  9            1            36
2                     0                  1                 14            3            37
2                                        0                 15            3            44
2                                        1                 20            7            49
2                     2                  0                 21            4            47
2                     2                  1                 28           10           149
3                     0                  0                 23            4           120
3                     0                  1                 39            7           130
3                     0                  2                 64           15           379
3                                        0                 48            7           210
3                                                          75           14           230
3                                        2                120           30           380
3                     2                  0                 93           15           380
3                     2                  1                150           30           440
3                     2                  2                210           35           470
3                     3                  0                240           36          1300
3                     3                                   460           71          2400
3                     3                  2               1100          150          4800


                                              206
                                                                           ANNEX 5




  Examples are given in Table A5.4 of the factors to be used to multiply the
MPN value found in order to obtain the appropriate MPN for different dilutions.


A5.8 Application to polluted water: "shorter method"
The procedure for the shorter method is almost identical to that described in
section A5.7, with the single difference that only three tubes of each sample
volume are inoculated, instead of five. This requires the use of a different table-
Table A5.5-for determining the MPN.


A5.9 Direct thermotolerant coliform method
If unchlorinated water from small-community water supplies is tested and only
the number of thermotolerant coliforms is of interest, a direct multiple-tube
method can be used. This is recommended for use where the total coliform result
is not of great significance, e.g. in small-community supplies in developing
countries or where space, time, or facilities are limited. The method is based on
the normal MPN procedure, bur the tubes are incubated directly in a water-bath
at 44.5 ± 0.2 °C, without previously incubating at 35 or 3rC for 24 hours and
testing for total coliforms.
     The procedure is similar to that described for the examination of polluted
water, except that MacConkey broth is used as the presumptive medium. Prepare
15 tubes of sample and medium, as described on pp. 199-203, and then proceed
as shown below.




A. Mter gently shaking the                                                 oc

                                       ~
                                                                      44
tubes to mix the contents, in-
cubate the 15 tubes at 44 °C
for 24 hours.
                                       24 hours




                                                   ~                            1=




                                       207
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




B. Observe each tube for the
presence of gas and enter the


                                                                    I~
number of positive tubes after              " <>   .;,   ·\   11,

24 hours in the appropriate
table.




                                        Number of positive tubes        1n 24 hours



C. Negative tubes should be                                                 44   oc

                                     ~
reincubated for a further 24-
hour period, after which they
should be observed for the
presence of gas.                     24 hours




                                                         ~                            E


D. Confirm the presumptive
results after 24 and 48 hours
by transferring a loopful of
broth to a confirmatory broth
and incubating at 44 °C for 24
hours.




                                 ~ F!~;~::,;Pti"               e    A
                                                                                  A1
                                                                                      EC




                                 ~ ~------------------------------~




                                      208
                                                                          ANNEX 5




E. The presence of thermoto-


                                       ~
lerant coliforms is confirmed
if gas is present in the confir-
matory broth after 24 hours at
44 °C. Determine the MPN
from Table A5.3 as before.




                                                    :::(                     }::




A5.1 0 Selection of tubes for confirmatory test
Any bacteriological analysis should always include the confirmatory test. If only
five 10-ml portions are tested, the confirmatory test for coliforms and
thermotolerant coliforms must be carried out on all tubes showing gas produc-
tion. However, if the inoculation involved five (or three) tubes for each of, or
more than, three sample volumes (e.g. 10, 1.0, 0.1, 0.01, and 0.001 ml), it is not
necessary to carry out confirmatory tests on all the positive tubes.
     If all five (or three) tubes of two or more consecutive dilutions are positive,
the set of tubes should be selected that presents the smallest sample volume for
which all the tubes are positive. The confirmatory test should be carried out on
all these tubes and on all the positive tubes corresponding to subsequent and
lower volumes. The following example should help to illustrate this procedure.
Mter 24 hours' incubation, five tubes with 10 ml, five with 1.0 ml, five with
0.1 ml, four with 0.01 ml, and one with 0.001 ml gave positive results. Thus the
confirmatory test should be carried out on the positive tubes initially inoculated
with 0.1, 0.01, and 0.001ml of sample.


A5.11 Record forms
The analysis of a given sample will provide several results. The form drawn up for
recording these results, although it should not be complicated, must be com-
pleted. The completed form should contain the data on the sampling, which will
also serve to identify the samples, those entered on the sample dispatch form, and
data on the bacteriological analysis itself. A suggested comprehensive form is
shown in Fig. A5.1. Once the analysis is completed, the laboratory carrying out
the work should record the results obtained in a standardized form (protocol);
this should follow the recommendations given in Chapter 3. The protocol can be
a very simple report, which records the sample identification information to-
gether with the result of the analysis and the appropriate classification of the
water. An example of such a protocol is shown in Fig. A5.2.

                                        209
                                                                                                                                                                                            G)
                                                                                                                                                                                            c
       Fig. AS. 1 Suggested comprehensive form for recording results of analyses by the multiple-tube method                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                                            r::::
                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                            m
                   Sample identification              Sender    Data        Date    Residual   Sample    No. of          No. of positive        No. of positive               MPN           (f)

                                                                 and        and       free     volume    tubes              tubes m                tubes m                                  -n
       Sample   Com-      Sample     Place   Source            t1meof     time of   chlorine   inocu~    inocu-         presumptive test       conf~rmatory   test                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                            :0
       no.      m unity    type                                collec-      first     (mg/      lated    lated             35 or 37 'C                                                      0
                                                                 tion    analysis     litre)     (m I)                                         35 or     44 oc,      Total      Faecal      :0
                                                                                                                   24         48       Total   37 'C,     24 h        coli-         COli-   z
                                                                                                                  hours      hours              48 h                 forms          forms   ~

                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                            G)


                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                                            :0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                   10                                                                       c
                                                                                                                                                                                            )>
N
                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
---'
0


                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                   10
                                                                              ANNEX 5




Fig. A5.2 Suggested protocol for results of bacteriological analysis




                          WATER-QUALITY
                            CONTROL
                           PROGRAMME


                                                       BACTERIOLOGICAL
                                                           WATER
                                       . Authonty]        ANALYSIS


      COMMUNITY                                         SAMPLE NO ....
      SAMPLE SITE


      PLACE
      SOURCE.
      SENDER
      DATE OF SAMPLING                                  TIME·
      DATE OF ANALYSIS                                  TIME·



                          RESIDUAL FREE CHLORINE     D             mg/lltre



      RESULTS


      TOTAL COLI FORMS                    /100 ml


      FAECAL COLI FORMS                   /100 ml



      WATER BACTERIOLOGICALLY

              GOOD- BAD                              Laboratory Techn1c1an


                                                        Ch1ef (S1gned)


                                                                               WH096624




                                             211
Annex 6

Membrane filtration method for
thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms



A6.1 Principle
In contrast to the multiple-tube method, the membrane-filtration method gives
a direct count of total coliforms and thermotolerant coliforms present in a given
sample of water. The method is based on the filtration of a known volume of
water through a membrane filter consisting of a cellulose compound with a
uniform pore diameter of0.45 or 0.211m; the bacteria are retained on the surface
of the membrane filter. When the membrane containing the bacteria is incubated
in a sterile container at an appropriate temperature with a selective differential
culture medium, characteristic colonies of thermotolerant coliforms develop,
which can be counted directly.


A6.2 Volume of water sample for filtration
Since the filtration area is relatively small, it can support the growth of only a
limited number of colonies: the optimum number is between 20 and 80, with a
maximum of 200. If this figure is exceeded, very small atypical colonies or
superimposed colonies may develop, or there may be growth inhibition due to
overpopulation. The choice of the volume of sample to be filtered will depend on
the type of water. Examples of typical volumes are provided in Table 4.3 (p. 61).


A6.3 Equipment and glassware
In addition to the basic equipment and glassware used in the multiple-tube
method (see Annex 5), the following items are needed for the membrane-
filtration technique:
•   Membrane-filtration apparatus: including an electric or hand-powered
    vacuum pump, a vacuum flask (e.g. an Erlenmeyer side-arm flask), and a
    filter support.
•   Reusable Petri dishes: made from glass or metal (disposable plastic Petri dishes
    may also be used).
•   Blunt-ended forceps: for picking up membrane filters.
•   Reusable (autoc!avable) bottles: for culture media (e.g. 25-ml polypropylene
    bottles).

                                       212
                                                                                            ANNEX 6




•      A magnifying lens: with X 4 or X 5 magnification for examining and counting
       the colonies on the membrane filters.
•      A boiling bath/pan: if filtration apparatus is to be disinfected in boiling water
       between analyses.
•      Sterile pipettes: 1 ml and 10 ml.
•      A graduated cylinder. 100 ml.
In addition to the consumables needed for the MPN, the following are required:
•      Membrane filters: 47-50 mm in diameter, with a pore diameter of 0.45 !Jm.
       Singly packed, presterilized membrane filters are very convenient. Unsteril-
       ized membrane filters can also be used, however, and should be wrapped in
       paper packets in convenient numbers (depending on the number of water
       samples to be tested). These can then be sterilized in the autoclave and dried
       by rapid exhaustion of the steam.
•      Nutrient absorbent pads: filter-paper discs about 1 mm thick, with the same
       diameter as the membrane filters.
•      Culture media: different types are available (see section A6.4).
•      Wax pencils: for labelling Petri dishes.
•      Polythene bags: for wrapping Petri dishes if a dry incubator is used, to prevent
       drying of the sample and media.

A6.4 Culture media and dilution water
Various media can be used for the examination of coliform organisms by the
membrane-filtration method. Of these, lactose TergitoP agar, lactose TTC TergitoP
agar, and membrane lauryl sulfate lactose broth may be used for coliform organ-
isms at 35 or 37°C and for thermotolerant coliform organisms at 44 °C or 44.5 °C.
Membrane faecal coliform (MFC) broth should be used only at 44 or 44.5 °C for
thermotolerant coliform counts. Although the use of all these media for the de-
tection of presumptive coliform organisms is based on the fermentation of lactose,
the characteristic reaction varies with each medium, as shown in Table A6.1.
     Although it is possible to prepare the media from the basic ingredients, this
may be impractical in a small laboratory. The use of dehydrated media is there-
fore recommended. The media can be prepared as a broth and used together with
nutrient absorption pads, or as solid agar plates. The broths may be solidified by
the addition of 1.2-1.5% agar before boiling.

A6.5 Procedure
The procedure generally used is described here, but different types of filtration
units and equipment exist.


1
    Tergirol 7 is an example of a suitable product available commercially. This information is given for
    the convenience of the user and does nor constitute an endorsement of this product by WHO.


                                                  213
                                                                                                                                                                            GJ
                                                                                                                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                            r::::
                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                            Ul
                                                                                                                                                                            "Tl
       Table A6.1 Colony characteristics following analysis by the membrane-filtration methoda                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                            :0
       Mediumb                                                                                       Colony characteristics                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                            :0
                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                           Total coliforms at 35/37°C                                       Thermotolerant coliforms at 44/45.5°C           :::"
                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                            GJ
       Lactose   nee agar With Terg1tol    7               Yellow, orange or bnck-red coloration w1th yellow                As for total col1forms at 35/37°C
                                                           central halo 1n the med1um under the membrane                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                            m
       Lactose agar w1th Terg1tol 7                        Yellow central halo 1n the medium under the                      As for total col iforms at 35/37 oc             :0

                                                           membrane                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                            )>
N
       Membrane-enr1ched Teepol broth                      Yellow colour extending on to the membrane                       As for total col1forms at 35/37 oc              r
..,.
~



                                                                                                                                                                            ~
       Membrane lauryl sulfate broth                       Yellow colour extending on to the membrane                       As for total col1forms at 35/37 oc
       Endo agar or broth                                  Dark red colour w1th golden-green metallic sheen
       LES-Endo agar                                       Dark red colour with golden-green metallic sheen
       Membrane faecal coliform (MFC) broth                                                                                 Blue colon1es

       ' Adapted from ISO 9308-1 1990, Detect1on and enumeration of col1form organ1sms, thermotolerant col1form organisms and presumptive Eschench!a co/1-Part 1
         Membrane f1ltrat1on method
       b Terg1tol 7 and Teepol are examples of su1table products available commercially Th1s 1nformat1on IS g1ven for the convenience of the user and does not constitute
         an endorsement of these products by ISO or WHO
       c 2,3,5-Trrphenyltetrazollum chloride
                                                                     ANNEX 6




A. Connect the Erlenmeyer
(side-arm)     flask to the
vacuum source (turned off)
and place the porous support
in position. If an electric
pump is used, it is advisable to
                                          Vacuum
put a second flask between the
Erlenmeyer flask and the
vacuum source; this second
flask acts as a water trap, and
thus protects the electric         Kl
pump.                              illa
                                   ~L---------------------------------~

B. Open a sterile Petri dish
and place a sterile absorbent
pad in it.




                                    '-Q

                                    ~
                                   i§\
                                   a
                                   ~L_    __________________________________J




C. Add broth medium to sat-
urate the pad; remove excess
broth.




                                   "-
                                   Cj
                                   i§\
                                   a

                                   ~ ~--------------------------------__J




                                           215
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




D. Assemble the filtration
unit by placing a sterile mem-
brane filter on the porous sup-
port, using forceps sterilized
by flaming.




E. Place the upper container
in position and secure it.
(The type of clamp used
will depend on the type of
equipment.)




F. Pour the volume of sample
chosen as optimal for the type
of water (see Table 4.3, p. 61),
into the upper container. If
the test sample is less than
10 ml, at least 20 ml of sterile
dilution water should be
added to the top container
before filtration. Apply the
vacuum.




                                   216
                                                                      ANNEX 6




G. Take the filtration unit apart
and, using the sterile forceps,
place the membrane filter in the
Petri dish on the pad with the
grid side up. Make sure that no
air bubbles are trapped between
the pad and the filter.


                                       ~
                                       a

                                       ~~----------------------------------~
H. Leave the Petri dish at room
temperature or at 35 or 37°C for
2-4 hours, for resuscitation of
stressed microbes.
                                           2-4 hours




                                       ~
                                       ~
                                       a

                                       ~ L-----------------------------------~

I. Place the dishes in an in-
cubator at 44 :±: 0.5 oc for
18-24 hours with 100% humid-
ity. Alternatively, tight-fitting or
sealed Petri dishes may be placed
in waterproof plastic bags for
incubation.




                                       ~
                                       a
                                       ~L-----========:::::_         ___    _j




                                            217
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




J. Submerge the bags in a
water-bath maintained at 44
± 0.5°C for 18-24 hours.
The plastic bags must be
below the surface of the water
throughout the incubation
period. They can be held
down by means of a suitable
weight, e.g. a metal rack.




     The colonies of thermotolerant coliform bacteria should be identified from
their characteristics on the medium used. The number of thermotolerant
coliforms per 100 ml is then given by:
     Thermotolerant coliforms per 100 ml
       = no. of thermotolerant coliform colonies counted   X
                                                               100
                 no. of ml of sample filtered




                                      218
Annex 7

Field test method for thermotolerant
coliforms



The field test method for thermotolerant coliforms involves the following:


A. Flame-sterilize the tips
of blunt-ended forceps
and allow to cool berween
successive manipulations
of the filters.




B. Place a sterile absorbent
pad in a sterile Petri dish.




                                ~
                                i§;
                                a

                                ~~--------------------------~
                                      219
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




C. Add broth medium
to saturate the pad and re-
move the excess broth.




D. Sterilize the filter ap-
paratus and assemble by
placing a sterile filter
membrane on the mem-
brane support.




                                        WHO 96631




                                 220
                                              ANNEX 7




E. Mix the sample thoroughly by
inverting the sample bottle several
times, and put the volume to be
tested into the previously sterilized
filtration apparatus. The appro-
priate volume of sample should
be selected in accordance with the
type of water being tested (see
Table 4.3, p. 61).




F. Apply a vacuum to the filter
apparatus to draw the sample
through the filter membrane. Dis-
connect the vacuum and dis-
mantle the apparatus.




                                               WH096639




                                        221
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




G. Using sterile forceps, re-
move the membrane filter from
the filter apparatus and transfer
it to the nutrient pad in the Petri
dish. Lower the membrane, grid
side uppermost, carefully onto
the nutrient pad, making sure
that no air bubbles are trapped
between the pad and the filter.




                                            WHO 96641




H. Replace the lid on the Petri
dish and label with the sample
identification code using a wax
pencil or waterproof pen.



                                            WHO 96642




                                      222
                                           ANNEX 7




I. Incubate the Petri dish at
ambient temperature for 2-4
hours to allow stressed bac-
teria to resuscitate.


                                 ~L__!V~~ur_·J
                                 ~




J. Incubate the Petri dish at
the selected temperature for
18-24 hours.




K. Following       incubation,
count all colonies with a mor-
phology typical of the bac-
terium and the medium used.
Calculate and express the
result in colony-forming units
(CFU) per lOOml of sample.




                                     223
Annex 8

Presence-absence test for total
coliform bacteria



Presence-absence tests may sometimes be appropriate where positive results are
known to be rare. They are not quantitative and, as their name suggests, they
indicate only the presence or absence of the indicator sought. Such results are of
little use in countries or situations where contamination is common and the
purpose of the analysis is then to determine the degree of contamination rather
than simply to indicate its presence. Thus presence-absence tests are not recom-
mended for use in the analysis of surface waters, untreated small-community
supplies, or larger water supplies in countries where operation and maintenance
difficulties may occasionally occur.
      Before a decision is taken to use the presence-absence test for the analysis of
a water source, the results obtained by the test should be compared with those
obtained with a recognized, quantitative method of analysis. Approximately 100
samples should be examined by both methods.



A8.1 Preparation of medium
The constituents of the medium used for the presence-absence test for coliform
bacteria are as follows:
    lactose broth (dehydrated)             13.0g
    lauryl tryptose broth (dehydrated)     17.5g
    bromocresol purple                     0.0085g
    distilled water                        1 litre
    Make this formulation triple-strength when examining 100-ml samples.
    The medium is prepared in the following stages:
(a) Dissolve the dehydrated lactose broth and lauryl tryptose broth sequentially
    in water, without heating.
(b) Dissolve the bromocresol purple in 10ml of sodium hydroxide solution (4g
    ofNaOH in 1 litre of water). Sodium hydroxide pellets are caustic and great
    care should be taken during the preparation of the solution; in particular,
    gloves and eye protection should be worn.
(c) Add the bromocresol purple solution to the broth solution.
(d) Dispense 50 ml of the medium into screw-cap glass dilution bottles of capac-
    ity 250-300 ml. A fermentation tube is not necessary.

                                        224
                                                                         ANNEX 8




(e) Autoclave for 12 minutes at 121 °C, limiting the total time in the autoclave
    to 30 minutes or less.
(f) Measure the pH of the medium after autoclaving; it should be 6.8 ± 0.2.


A8.2 Procedure
(a) Mix the sample thoroughly by inverting the sample bottle several times.
(b) Add 100 ml of the sample to the dilution bottle.
(c) Incubate at 35 ± 0.05 °C and examine after 24 and 48 hours.
(d) A positive result (acid production) is indicated by a distinct yellow colour in
    the medium. Shake the bottle gently and examine for foaming, which indi-
    cates the production of gas. Any test in which gas and/or acid is produced
    should be regarded as a positive presumptive test.
(e) Positive presumptive tests should be confirmed by inoculating a tube of
    brilliant-green lactose-bile (BGLB) broth with cultures that show acid and/
    or gas production and incubating at 35 ± 0.5 °C. Growth and the produc-
    tion of gas in the BGLB broth culture within 48 hours confirm the presence
    of coliform bacteria.
    Other indicator bacteria can be detected by the presence-absence test by
selecting the appropriate confirmatory medium.




                                       225
Annex 9

Residual free chlorine test



The method recommended for the determination of chlorine residual in drinking-
water employs N,N-diethyl-p-phenylenediamine, more commonly referred to
as DPD. Methods employing orthotolidine and starch-potassium iodide were
formerly also recommended. The first of these reagents is a recognized carcinogen
and the method is not reliable. The method based on the use of starch-potassium
iodide is not specific for free chlorine, but measures directly the total of free and
combined chlorine; it is not recommended except in countries where DPD
cannot be obtained or prepared. In this Annex, therefore, only the DPD method
is considered.
     In the laboratory, photocolorimetry or spectrophotometry may both be used
for the determination of chlorine by means of DPD. However, it is common
practice and highly recommended for field measurements using simple colour-
match comparators to be done on site. The colour is generated following the
addition of DPD to the water sample and is matched against standard coloured
discs or tubes. The method can be used by staff without extensive specialized
training. The reagent may be solid (e.g. individually wrapped tablets) or in the
form of a solution; the former is more stable. If the solution is used, it should be
stored in a brown bottle and discarded as soon as it starts to become discoloured.

A9.1 Commercial visual comparator technique
A9.1.1 Equipment
Commercial comparators are of two basic rypes-the disc type, contammg a
wheel of small coloured glasses, and the slide type, containing liquid standards in
glass ampoules. However, both consist of the same components: a box with an
eye-piece in front and two cells, the whole arranged so that both cells are in the
field of vision of the eye-piece.
     One cell, containing a water sample without the reagents, is placed in line
with the rotating coloured glasses or the ampoules containing the standards. The
water sample containing the reagent is placed in another cell. If free chlorine is
present, a colour will develop. The concentration of chlorine is estimated by
matching the colours in both cells, as seen through the eye-piece. Each colour
of the disc or ampoule corresponds to a certain quantity of chlorine in the
water; different calibration discs or ampoules are needed for each of the reagents
specified.

                                        226
                                                                         ANNEX 9




A9.1.2 Reagents
Most comparators are intended for use with the manufacturer's own reagents,
and care must therefore be taken to keep a good stock of these. This is a
disadvantage, since it involves dependence on the local supplier, and importation
problems may occasionally arise. On the other hand, it is not necessary to prepare
solutions of standards, which makes the technique very easy to use.

A9.1.3 Method
A. Rinse a comparator cell
two or three times, and then
fill it up to the mark with the
water sample.




                                  ~
                                  a

                                  ~L-------------------~------------__J

B. Place the cell in the cell
carrier of the comparator,
which is in line with the
coloured standards (B).




                                  ;
                                  a

                                  ~L_--~~========~~------_j




                                       227
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




C. Rinse the second cell and
fill it with the same water.




                               "-

                               ~
                               C)



                               ~L-----------------~~----------~

D. Add reagent to the second
cell, in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.




                               ~
                               C)



                               ~L---------------~=-------------~

E. Shake the cell (for not
more than 3-5 seconds) to
mix the reagent.




                               i
                               C)



                               ~ L-------------------------------~




                                    228
                                                                   ANNEX 9




F. Place the cell in the com-
parator (A).




G. While holding the com-
parator facing good natural
light, rotate the disc until the
colour of a standard (B) is the
same as that developed by the
reagent (A). Immediately (i.e.
in less than 20 seconds) read
at C the value of free chlorine
in mg/litre.


                                   t2
                                   ~
                                   a

                                   ~L---------------------------~--~



A9.2 Colour match comparator method
The procedure employed when a colour-match comparator is used is summarized
below. Some comparators employ tubes or discs with the standard colours; the
procedure is similar in all cases.




                                        229
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




A. Rinse the comparator thor-
oughly in the water to be tested and
then fill to the specified lines on the
test and control tubes.




B. Add tablet or liquid reagent
and mix thoroughly to dissolve.
This may require the crushing of
the tablet with a clean glass rod.




                                          ==pH
                                          ==
                                          ==
                                          ==
                                          ==
                                          =o
                                          =o



C. Compare the pink colour
in the test compartment with
the standards in the control         =opH
compartment by viewing the
                                     =o
                                     =o
comparator in good, trans-
                                     =o
                                     =o
                                     DD
mitted natural light. Express        =o
the result as mg/litre of free
residual chlorine.




                                          230
Annex 10

Turbidity and pH
A 10.1 Measurement of turbidity
High levels of turbidity can protect microorganisms from the effects of disinfec-
tion, stimulate the growth of bacteria, and exert a significant chlorine demand.
Where disinfection is practised, the turbidity must always be low, e.g. below 5
NTU/JTU, and ideally below 1 NTU for effective disinfection. Measurement of
turbidities lower than 5 NTU will generally require electronic meters. However,
turbidities of 5 NTU upwards can be measured by simple extinction methods,
which are far cheaper and require no consumables. In the monitoring of small-
community supplies in developing countries, such methods may be preferable.
The sequence of steps involved in turbidity determination by an extinction
method is shown below.

A. Add water slowly to the
turbidity tube, taking care not
to form bubbles. Fill until the
mark at the bottom of the tube
just disappears.




                                      231
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




B. Read the turbidity from the
scale marked on the side of the                5

tube. The value is that corre-
sponding to the line nearest to
the level of the water in the
tube. The scale is not linear,
and extrapolation of values be-
tween the lines is therefore not
recommended.
                                              10




                                   NTU


                                              20



                                              30

                                             40
                                              50

                                             75
                                            100                           WHO 96657

                                             200
                                             300
                                             500
                                            1000
                                            2000    WH096656




A 10.2 Measurement of pH
A 10.2.1 Electronic pH method
The electronic method of measuring pH requires an electronic pH instrument
and electrode, and pH buffer solutions at pH 4.0, 7.0, and 9.0.
     A wide variety of pH instruments is available; the less expensive tend to be
"disposable" and have a life span of approximately 1 year when used in the field.
The more expensive portable models generally have replaceable electrodes, and
some may have rechargeable batteries to save recurrent costs.
     The most common cause of failure of a pH meter is a damaged electrode; this
is generally due to poor storage and maintenance of the electrode when it is not
in use. The electrode must not be allowed to dty out and must be stored in pH
4.0 buffer solution. It must also be protected from impact and vibrations that
could crack the glass bulb.
     The method of calibration is as follows:
(a) Switch on the pH meter and select pH (if the meter has several functions).
(b) Make sure that the electrode is connected.

                                      232
                                                                        ANNEX 10




(c) Using ready-prepared pH buffer solutions (pH buffer powder mixed with
    distilled water according to the manufacturer's instructions), place the pH
    electrode in a pH 7.0 buffer and adjust the meter if necessary.
(d) Rinse the electrode in distilled water and transfer it to pH 4.0 buffer; adjust
    the meter if necessary.
(e) Rinse the electrode in pH 9.0 buffer and adjust the meter if necessary.
(f) Check the meter in all three buffer solutions. If it does not read true, repeat
    the above process. If it cannot be adjusted to read correctly in all buffers,
    suspect a faulty or damaged electrode.
    The meter is now ready for use in testing the water sample; calibration of the
meter must be carried out daily.


A 10.2.2 Comparator disc method
The comparator disc method for measuring pH requires a comparator, colour
discs-depending on the range required (see below)-and the following reagents:
     universal                    pH 4-11
     phenol red                   pH 6.8-8.4
     bromothymol blue             pH 6.0-7.6
     bromothymol purple           pH 5.2-6.8
     thymol blue                  pH 8.0-9.6
     For most natural waters; the universal reagent and phenol red will be suf-
ficient. Where greater accuracy in a particular range is required, the appropriate
disc and reagents should be purchased.
     The comparator unit is generally suitable for all the discs and so only one
such unit is required. The method of use is similar for all pH ranges:
(a) Place a water sample in the glass or plastic cuvettes provided.
(b) Add the reagent tablets, powders, or drops according to the manufacturer's
     instructions.
(c) Select the appropriate colour disc and place it in the comparator unit.
(d) Place the cuvettes in the comparator unit.
(e) Hold the comparator unit up to the eye, facing good daylight (but not direct
     sunlight).
(f) Rotate the disc and observe until the colour matches that of the water sample.
(g) Read the pH value from the disc.
     If the pH is not within the range of the disc, select the appropriate reagents
and disc and repeat the above procedure.




                                       233
Annex 11

Examples of regional and national
monitoring report forms for water
supplies and for coverage with basic
sanitary faci Iities
This annex contains examples of report forms for a national rural water-supply
component inventory (Fig. All. I), sanitary inspections of gravity-fed supply
systems from protected spring sources without treatment (Fig. All.2), surveil-
lance of rural water-supply quality (Fig. All.3), and regional and national rural
coverage with sanitary facilities (Figs A11.4 and A11.5).


Fig. A 11. 1 National rural water-supply component inventory
Component                                          National totals

Number of systems
Number of protected spnngs
Number of surface-water 1ntakes
Treatment plants
    number of sed1menters
    number of systems w1th coagulant dos1ng
    number of systems With a flocculator
    number of systems w1th slow sand filtration
    number of slow sand f1lters
    number of systems w1th rapid sand f1ltrat1on
    number of rap1d sand filters
    number of storage tanks




                                          234
                                                           ANNEX 11




Fig. A 11.2 Sanitary inspections of gravity-fed supply systems from
            protected spring sources without treatment
Inspection                               National totals

Spnngs
    w1th protect1on
    w1th san1tary l1d
    locked
    w1th fence or wall
    w1th surface-water divers1on d1tch
    w1th excreta disposal nearby

Conductton lmes
-   w1th v1s1ble leaks

Reservotrs
-   w1th san1tary l1d
-   locked

Otsmfectton
    w1th equipment
-   w1th chlonne stock
-   operat1ng when inspected

Adduct/On lines
-   with v1s1ble leaks

OistnbuttOn networks
-   with v1s1ble leaks
-   w1th constant pressure

Mean nsk score




                                           235
                                                                                                                                                            Gl
                                                                                                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                            !::
                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                            (f)
                                                                                                                                                            ..,.,
       Fig. A 11.3 Surveillance of rural water-supply quality                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                            ::0
       Department:                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                            ::0
       Province:                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                            ~

                          Community          System        Source        Total             Quality (mean         Monthly cost   Continuityb   Quantity'
                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                            Gl
                                             type          type          population        thermotolerant
                                                                                           coliforms
                                                                                                                 for domestic
                                                                                                                 usea
                                                                                                                                (overall%)    (mean
                                                                                                                                              litres/day)   ~
                                                                                                                                                            ---j
                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                           per 100ml)                                                       ::0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                            )>
1\.)                                                                                                                                                        r
w
(J)
                                                                                                                                                            ~




       Subtotals/
       means

       a Cost JS the tanff pa1d for domestic connect1on
       b Cont1nu1ty IS the overall percentage of t1me for wh1ch water IS supplied
       ' Quantity data are denved from 1ntake volume and do not necessanly reflect the volume devoted to domestiC use
       Fig. A 11.4 Regional rural coverage with sanitary facilities
       Department:
       Province:

                     Community     Total                 Water                           Excreta disposal
                                   population
                                                Domestic         Public      Private   Communal      Septic   Sewerage
                                                connection       standpost   latrine   latrine       tank


1'0
w
--.J




       Prov1nce
       subtotals

       Department
       subtotals


                                                                                                                         )>
                                                                                                                         z
                                                                                                                         zm
                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                         ~

                                                                                                                         ~
GUIDELINES FOR DRINKING-WATER QUALITY




Fig. A 11.5 National rural coverage with sanitary facilities
                                                           National totals

Water
-   by domest1c connect1on                                       %
-   by public standpost                                          %
Excreta disposal
    by pnvate latnne                                             %
    by communal latnne                                           %
    by sept1c tank                                               %
    by sewerage                                                  %




                                  238
SELECTED WHO PUBLICATIONS OF RELATED INTEREST


  Our planet, our health. Report of the WHO Commission
                on Health and Environment.
                       1992 (314 pages) • Sw. fr. 45.-

   Financial management of water supply and sanitation.
                     A handbook.
                        1994 (93 pages) • Sw. fr. 20-

  Operation and maintenance of urban water supply and
       sanitation systems. A guide for managers.
                       1994 (111 pages) • Sw. fr. 23.-

       Environmental health in urban development.
                  Report of a WHO Expert Committee.
                  WHO Technical Report Series, No. 807
                     1991 (71 pages) • Sw. fr 11.-

      Technology for water supply and sanitation in
                 developing countries.
                    Report of a WHO Study Group.
                  WHO Technical Report Series, No. 742
                     1987 (38 pages) • Sw. fr. 7-

                      Surface water drainage
                  for low-income communities.
                        1991 (93 pages) • Sw. fr. 16.-

     A guide to the development of on-site sanitation.
                              R. Franceys et al.
                       1992 (245 pages) • Sw. fr. 47.-

       Guidelines for the safe use of wastewater and
          excreta in agriculture and aquaculture.
                         D. Mara & S Ca1rncross.
                       1989 (194 pages) • Sw. fr. 35.-



     Further mformatwn on these and other WHO publications
            can be obtained from Distribution and Sales,
     World Health Organization, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.

        Prices in dcve!Of'lllf!, countries are 70% of those !tsted here.
     The first edition of Guidelmes for drinldng-water quality,
  published in 1984-85, was widely used as a basis for setting
      national standards to ensure the safety of the water
        supply. It established guideline values ·for a large
   number of water constituents and contaminants, covering
     microbiological, biological, chemical, organoleptic, and
   radiological aspects. All the recommended guideline values
in Volumes 1 and 2 of this new edition have been reviewed and,
            where necessary, updated in the light of
          new scientific information. In addition, many
       drinking-water contaminants not included in the
                 fust edition are evaluated.

              Volume 3 describes the methods used
in the surveillance of drinking-water quality in the light of the
        special problems of small-community supplies,
particularly in developing countries, and outlines the strategies
       necessary to ensure that surveillance is effective.
         It is also concerned with the linkage between
      surveillance and remedial action and with the form
                 that remedial action should take.




                            ·Pria: Sw. fr; 72~-
                 Price in developing countriet(Sw. &. 50.40
                            ISBN 92 4154503 8
