Water Safety Planning
for Small Community Water Supplies
Step-by-step risk management guidance
for drinking-water supplies in small communities
Water Safety Planning
for Small Community Water Supplies
Step-by-step risk management guidance
for drinking-water supplies in small communities
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data

Water safety planning for small community water supplies: step-by-step risk management guidance for drinking-water supplies in small communities.

1.Water quality. 2.Drinking water. 3.Water pollution. 4.Water supply - standards. 5.Manuals. I.World Health Organization.

ISBN 978 92 4 154842 7			                                      (NLM classification: WA 675)


© World Health Organization 2012

All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO web site (www.who.int) or can be purchased from
WHO Press, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail:
bookorders@who.int).
Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution – should be addressed to
WHO Press through the WHO web site (http://www.who.int/about/licensing/copyright_form/en/index.html).

The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part
of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation
of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.

The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World
Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary
products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the
published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of
the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use.

Designed by www.paprika-annecy.com

Printed in Malta


Photographs on cover (from top to bottom, left to right): Water safety plan team members examining protected area around storage tanks supplying
piped water to Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal; storage tank in Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal; tapstand in Kavre, Nepal; community meeting to discuss the water
safety plan in Kavre, Nepal, August 2009

Excerpt summarized from Government of Nepal (2009):

The water safety plan team for the Kavre water supply analysed the system and identified all critical hazards with support from a water supply engineer.
Improvements to the system that required little money were implemented immediately (e.g. installation of a control valve at the intake point, leakage repairs,
raising of floor and washout pipe of reservoir tank). During a support visit, the operator expressed his satisfaction, noting that it was now very easy to monitor,
operate and clean the system and, additionally, that it now seemed very safe too.
Contents


Preface......................................................................................................................................................... v

Introduction.................................................................................................................................................. 1
   Purpose of the manual............................................................................................................................ 1
   Overview of contents.............................................................................................................................. 1
   Target audience........................................................................................................................................ 2
   Key principles............................................................................................................................................ 2

What are small community water supplies, and why are they important?............................................ 3

What is a water safety plan?....................................................................................................................... 4

Why should water safety plans be applied to small community water supplies?.................................. 5

How can a water safety plan be developed and implemented in a small community water supply?........... 6

   Task 1 Engage the community and assemble a water safety plan team......................................... 8
   Task 2 Describe the community water supply................................................................................ 12
   Task 3	Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures................ 17
   Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan............................................. 30
   Task 5	Monitor control measures and verify the effectiveness of the water safety plan............. 37
   Task 6 Document, review and improve all aspects of water safety plan implementation.......... 43


Acknowledgements................................................................................................................................... 49

References and recommended further reading...................................................................................... 52

Glossary...................................................................................................................................................... 54




                                                                                   Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                          iii <
Preface


The principles and practice of water safety planning are increasingly being adopted around the world as the basis

for the provision of safe and clean drinking-water. This process is most pronounced in urban conglomerates where

the institutional infrastructure of municipal corporations, parastatal enterprises or private utilities is conducive to their

adoption.



Water safety planning has a number of unique characteristics. One of these is its adaptability to different socioeconomic

settings. Another is its capacity to be effectively applied at different levels and scales.



A considerable number of people in today’s world have to rely on small community water supplies for their everyday

basic needs, both in industrialized and in less developed countries. These communities, often in remote places, tend to

lack capacities for essential management, operation and maintenance, and implementation of technical improvements.



Water safety plans provide a reliable framework for such communities to strengthen their capacities and capabilities with

a focus on cost-effective management of their water supplies. The present guidance document puts water safety planning

in the context of small community water supplies and provides a step-by-step approach for those charged with dealing

with the everyday realities of maintaining a reliable, safe supply. It addresses members of small communities themselves,

in addition to those supporting them in their endeavours to bring safe and clean water collectively to millions of people.



The International Small Community Water Supply Management Network, hosted by the World Health Organization

(WHO), has made it its priority to provide tools, like this manual, that are of immediate practical use. The energy

invested by the members of this Network needs due recognition. Both the WHO Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Health

programme and the Network look forward to feedback from the field on ways to further improve the manual, to be

incorporated in the next edition of this text.


                                                                                       Robert Bos
                                                                                       Coordinator
                                                                                       Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Health
                                                                                       World Health Organization
                                                                                       Geneva, Switzerland




                                                                   Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies     v<
       The six tasks to develop and implement a water safety plan
                   in small community water supplies




                                                     Task 1 - Engage the
                                                   community and assemble a
                                                     water safety plan team




             Task 6 - Document,
            review and improve all
          aspects of water safety plan                                               Task 2 - Describe the
                implementation                                                      community water supply

                                              Water safety plan
                                                continuous
         Task 5 - Monitor control            improvement cycle
          measures and verify the
         effectiveness of the water
                 safety plan
                                                                              Task 3 - Identify and assess
                                                                               hazards, hazardous events,
                                                                                risks and existing control
                                                                                        measures

                                           Task 4 - Develop and
                                         implement an incremental
                                            improvement plan




> vi
Introduction

Purpose of the manual
This manual is designed to engage, empower and guide communities in the development and implementation of water
safety plans (WSPs) for their drinking-water systems. It provides guidance on how to apply effective and achievable
management actions in order to improve the safety and quality of supplied water. Relevant to all community-managed
systems, it is applicable to piped schemes, point sources such as hand pumps, protected springs or household rainwater
harvesting systems and other sources. The guidance provided is valid for both new and existing schemes.

The manual is complemented by the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Guidelines for drinking-water quality
(WHO, 2011a), which describe the principles of the WSP approach, and the Water safety plan manual: step-by-step
risk management for drinking-water suppliers (Bartram et al., 2009), a practical guide to developing WSPs for larger
water supplies managed by a water utility or similar entity. Tools (e.g. sanitary inspection forms) included in Volume 3
of the WHO Guidelines for drinking-water quality, entitled Surveillance and control of small community supplies (WHO,
1997), will also be a useful resource for small community water supplies throughout the WSP development and
implementation process.

Household-level water safety practices, such as point-of-
use water treatment, safe storage and proper hygiene, are
important additional interventions that can complement
and be incorporated in the WSP approach, but are not
the focus of this document. Additional information on
household water treatment and safe storage can be found
at http://www.who.int/household_water/en/.

Overview of contents
The manual describes the rationale for WSPs by answering
the following questions:

zz What are small community water supplies, and why
   are they important?                                         Village health team members discussing hepatitis E prevention through use of
zz What is a WSP?                                              a safe water chain in Akwach sub-county, Uganda, 2009
zz Why should WSPs be applied in small community
   water supplies?

It then goes on to provide six step-by-step tasks describing how to develop and implement a WSP in a small community
water supply:

zz   Task 1 – Engage the community and assemble a WSP team.
zz   Task 2 – Describe the community water supply.
zz   Task 3 – Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures.
zz   Task 4 – Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan.
zz   Task 5 – Monitor control measures and verify the effectiveness of the WSP.
zz   Task 6 – Document, review and improve all aspects of WSP implementation.




                                                                Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                      1<
     Target audience
     The manual is intended for use by development professionals working in and providing assistance to small communities,
     including:

     zz   local government officials, especially health and drinking-water/sanitation officers;
     zz   nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) supporting drinking-water supply activities;
     zz   primary health-care staff working on improving water, sanitation and hygiene services;
     zz   other interested community-based organizations and individuals.

     This manual will also be useful for those with drinking-water and health-related responsibilities working at a national
     level to guide the development of policies and programmes to improve the management of small community water
     supplies. Finally, it will also be helpful to members of the small community water supply themselves, as water supply
     operators and caretakers will be key players in the WSP development and implementation process.

     Key principles
     The manual highlights a number of key water safety planning principles:

     zz Understanding and committing to achieving drinking-water safety are prerequisites to the implementation of
        any effective WSP.
     zz Water safety can be effectively and sustainably improved through the use of a preventive risk management
        approach.
     zz The WSP approach is meant to be flexible and adapted as needed.
     zz The greatest risk to drinking-water safety is contamination with disease-causing microorganisms.
     zz Risks to the safety of drinking-water are best controlled using a multiple-barrier approach.
     zz Incremental improvements to the water supply system can be made over time, with the aim to eventually
        achieve water quality targets or objectives.
     zz Any (sudden) change in the local environment should result in investigative action to confirm that drinking-
        water is safe or to provide information on how to undertake corrective actions.
     zz Any complaints about illness, taste, colour or smell require follow-up to ensure that the drinking-water
        continues to be safe.
     zz Regular review of the WSP (including newly identified risks) is critical to ensure that water safety planning
        remains up to date and effective.




     Examples of small community water supplies (from left to right) in Puno, Peru; Dusheti district, Georgia; and Qaraghoch, Tajikistan. In Qaraghoch, Tajikistan, the
     well is opened in the morning and in the evening by a designated community member, who also distributes the water. During the winter, community members
     collect water from the rain and snow.




>2
What are small community water
supplies, and why are they important?

Small community water supplies consist of the system(s) used by the
community to collect, treat, store and distribute drinking-water from
source to consumer. The definition of a small community water supply can
vary widely within and between countries. Some countries define small
community water supplies by, for example, population size, the quantity of
water provided, the number of service connections or the type of supply
technology used. However, it is the operating and management challenges
they face that most commonly set small community water supplies apart.

Small community water supply operators are often untrained or
undertrained and sometimes unpaid. They may work only part-time
and may be charged with other responsibilities within the community or
privately. Many operators of small community water supplies are faced
                                                                                                      Small community water supply in Scotland. In the European Union, 1 in
with:                                                                                                 10 people (40–50 million people) receive drinking-water from small or
                                                                                                      very small systems, including private wells (Hulsmann, 2005).

zz lacking access to expert assistance, because supplies are often
   isolated and/or remote;
zz seasonal variations in water quantity and quality or occasional peak demands (e.g. during festivals or the planting
   season);
zz receiving only limited management and technical support from water user committees or government agencies;
zz having limited and inconsistent financial resources to invest in improvements and repairs.

Small community water supplies include those serving rural villages and towns, individual households and vacation homes.
Water supplies serving transient populations and those in periurban areas (the communities surrounding major towns
and cities) are often organized in the same way, frequently beyond the reach of municipal services. For the purposes of
                                                              this manual, these can also be considered small community
                                                              water supplies.
    Although the definition of a
                                                                                 Managing small community water supplies is a concern
    small community water supply                                                 worldwide, in both developed and less developed
    can vary widely within and                                                   countries. Experience shows that small community water
                                                                                 supplies are more at risk of breakdown and contamination,
    between countries, it is the                                                 leading to outbreaks of waterborne disease and gradual
                                                                                 decline in their functionality and service.
    operating and management
    challenges they face that most                                               The greatest risks to health from these water supplies are
                                                                                 the potential for microbial contamination and outbreaks
    commonly set small community                                                 of infectious disease, such as acute diarrhoeal illness. Every
                                                                                 year, about 2.5 million deaths worldwide are attributed to
    water supplies apart.                                                        diarrhoea alone. Approximately half who die are children
                                                                                 under the age of 5 (WHO, 2011b).




Examples of small community water supplies (from left to right) in Manitoba, Canada; Ethiopia; and Dalvik, Iceland




                                                                                   Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                                   3<
     What is a water safety plan?


     The WSP approach emphasizes preventive risk management. It requires that risks to drinking-water safety are
     identified, prioritized and managed to protect drinking-water quality before problems occur. This approach draws
     on the methodology of sanitary inspection (see example on page 21), which offers quick results and clearly identifies
     action points for improvements. Water safety planning also requires regular monitoring of control measures and
     periodic confirmation of water quality (verification/compliance monitoring). The WSP itself documents the process
     and practice of providing safe water at the community level. It is vital to remember that the WSP document in itself
     is not the end; rather, it is a beginning. Dedicated implementation of the WSP is key. The aim of employing a WSP
     approach is to consistently ensure the safety and acceptability of a drinking-water supply in a practical manner.

                                                                Where all risks cannot be immediately minimized because
                                                                of, for example, limited resources, a WSP is implemented
                                                                to make prioritized, incremental improvements over time.
       The WSP approach is the
                                                                Experience has shown that WSP formulation and
       assessment, prioritization and                           implementation require both time and genuine commitment
       continuous management of                                 at all levels among key members within the community.
                                                                Water safety planning should be viewed not as a one-time
       risks to water safety from                               undertaking, but as an integral part of the ongoing, day-
                                                                to-day operation, maintenance and management of the
       catchment to consumer.                                   water supply, with a view to ensuring its sustainability into
                                                                the future, in terms of financial support, lasting community
                                                                involvement and the natural resource base.




       Limitations of relying solely on drinking-water quality testing
       Drinking-water suppliers usually rely on the results of water quality testing for the presence of microorganisms
       and other contaminants to check whether or not the water is safe to drink. Unfortunately, overreliance on such
       testing has several major drawbacks:
       zz Testing water quality is costly and cumbersome, and
           this is especially true for small communities.
       zz It is not feasible to test all water; only a fraction
           distributed to the community can ever be tested.
       zz It often takes time for water quality test results to
           be returned to the community or health authorities.
           People may fall ill before the problem has been
           identified.
       zz Water quality test results provide little information
           on when, why and where the contamination event
           occurred. Therefore, even if a water quality problem
           has been detected, it may not be clear what actions
           the community should take to correct the problem.
       Testing is, and always will be, an important part of verifying
       drinking-water safety. However, a complementary WSP team members learning how to measure conductivity in
       approach is needed to better protect the consumer and drinking-water in Talas, Kyrgyzstan
       lower the risk of contaminants entering drinking-water
       supplies in the first place.




>4
Why should water safety plans be applied
to small community water supplies?

The WSP approach is designed to help a community manage health risks that could threaten its water supply. By following
the WSP approach, community members identify and prioritize health risks and, where necessary, take steps, over time,
to improve the safety of the water supply using available resources. WSPs are applicable for a range of scales and levels,
and in different contexts. A WSP can be developed for all existing schemes, from point sources to piped systems, as
well as for new supplies. In new schemes, it should be straightforward for the supporting agency to incorporate the WSP
approach into initial community mobilization and project implementation.

The development and implementation of WSPs in small
community water supplies are associated with many
positive impacts. Implementing a WSP will improve day-
to-day risk management and operation of the water supply
and will ultimately lead to consistently safer water. It
provides a catalyst to develop essential skills and capacities
of community members. The WSP process encourages
a team-based approach, improving cooperation and
engagement with stakeholders and technical experts.

Small community water suppliers may find it difficult to
immediately meet community, local or national water quality
targets or objectives, particularly when resources are limited.
The WSP philosophy recognizes that even small, readily            It is important to assess the water supply system together and collect the
achievable improvements are better than none and encourages       critical information needed to develop a WSP
the adoption of a prioritized, “incremental improvement plan”.

                                                                  The improvement schedule laid out in a well-documented
                                                                  WSP should support community requests for resources
   Adopting an incremental                                        to implement further water supply improvements. With
                                                                  a clear community WSP in hand, government and other
   improvement plan means                                         financial supporters may be more inclined to consider
                                                                  supportive funding for corrective work and upgrading.
   that improvements are made
   over time, moving gradually                                    Widespread implementation of WSPs in the long term
                                                                  can contribute to reducing the fraction of the national
   towards meeting community,                                     disease burden attributable to poor drinking-water quality
                                                                  and inadequate sanitation and hygiene and likely lead to
   local or national water quality                                cost savings and more sustainable water management
   targets or objectives.                                         practices—critical in the face of increasing water scarcity.
                                                                  Additional impacts may be improved hygiene awareness
                                                                  together with changes in sanitary behaviour.




                                                                  Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                     5<
     How can a water safety plan be
     developed and implemented in a small
     community water supply?
     The process of developing a WSP for community-managed supplies can be broken down into six tasks. These tasks have
     been illustrated by several practical examples of what has been effective for some WSP implementers. These examples
     highlight that flexibility should be applied in developing and implementing WSPs to take account of local conditions and
     circumstances. It is up to each community to determine how best to achieve each task and establish a “living” WSP.



                         The WSP approach is not a recipe that needs to be
                                  followed rigidly to achieve success.
                        It is meant to be flexible and adapted to local needs.

     A description of these tasks, key questions and the outcomes associated with each task is presented on the next page.
     While each task in developing the WSP is an integral part of the whole planning process, each task on its own helps
     improve the management of a small community water supply and may be undertaken or updated at any time. Each task
     in the WSP process is discussed in more detail in the next sections.



                                                                     Task 1 - Engage the
                                                                   community and assemble a
                                                                     water safety plan team




                  Task 6 - Document,
                 review and improve all
               aspects of water safety plan                                                          Task 2 - Describe the
                     implementation                                                                 community water supply

                                                           Water safety plan
                                                             continuous
              Task 5 - Monitor control                    improvement cycle
               measures and verify the
              effectiveness of the water
                      safety plan
                                                                                              Task 3 - Identify and assess
                                                                                               hazards, hazardous events,
                                                                                                risks and existing control
                                                                                                        measures

                                                      Task 4 - Develop and
                                                    implement an incremental
                                                       improvement plan




     The six tasks to develop and implement a WSP in small community water supplies




>6
Summary of tasks involved in developing and implementing a WSP for community-managed supplies

 Task No.   Description of       Key questions       Key outcomes
            task
 Task 1     Engage the           Who needs to        A community empowered through interest and ownership
            community and        be, should be       in the management of its water supply
            assemble a WSP       and wants to be
                                                     Support from health and water staff in the concerned
            team                 involved?
                                                     administrative unit (e.g. district, block, parish) and/or from
                                                     experienced NGOs
                                                     Linkage to prevailing government policies, water quality
                                                     standards, laws and local by-laws
 Task 2     Describe the         Have we             Proper documentation of the community water supply
            community water      accurately          (with drawings, maps, photos, water quality records and
            supply               captured the        relevant management and institutional records)
                                 details of our
                                 water supply
                                 system?
 Task 3     Identify and         How serious         Improved knowledge of hazards and hazardous events and
            assess hazards,      is the risk of a    associated risks to public health in the system
            hazardous events,    hazard causing
                                                     Improved understanding of how the risks are currently
            risks and existing   harm?
                                                     being addressed (what control measures are in place and
            control measures
                                                     whether they are suitable and effective) and what risks may
                                                     need further control
 Task 4     Develop and          How do we get       Scoping of opportunities to improve drinking-water quality
            implement an         to where we         (by new or modified control measures)
            incremental          want to be?
                                                     Priority actions identified to improve management and
            improvement
                                                     safety of the supply, including proposed timelines and
            plan
                                                     needed resources
                                                     Engagement of the community in implementation of the
                                                     improvements
 Task 5     Monitor control      Are the control     Operational monitoring and inspections demonstrating that
            measures             measures and the    control measures continue to work effectively
            and verify the       plan working?
                                                     Verification that the WSP is appropriate and working
            effectiveness of
                                                     effectively to provide safe drinking-water
            the WSP
 Task 6     Document,            What do we          Well-established management procedures for normal,
            review and           need to do to       incident and emergency situations shared with the WSP
            improve all          ensure that our     team and those responsible for managing the community
            aspects of WSP       WSP works well      water supply
            implementation       and to improve it
                                                     Supporting activities established to embed the WSP
                                 continuously?
                                                     approach into water supply operations (e.g. training and
                                                     education)
                                                     Establishment of processes to review the WSP periodically,
                                                     ensuring that the WSP remains up to date and effective,
                                                     resulting in incremental improvements to water safety




                                                         Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies     7<
     Task 1 Engage the community and assemble a
            water safety plan team

                      Engaging the community and assembling a WSP team are an essential means to:

                      zz identify the community’s aspirations and needs in respect of their water supply, through an inclusive
                         process that considers gender as well as elderly and vulnerable community members;
                      zz balance water supply needs against competing community-level priorities, such as housing and
                         education;
                      zz tap into local knowledge and experience in the identification, assessment and management of risks;
                      zz identify resources within the community that can be called upon when needed;
                      zz initiate a dialogue between the community and other stakeholders (government, NGOs, water
                         service delivery and public health agencies) on the benefits and requirements of a well-functioning
                         water supply and the joint preparation of a WSP;
                      zz raise awareness of the role that community members can play in protecting and improving their
                         water supply.

                      A successful WSP will have involved the community throughout the entire process and, ideally, is led at
                      the community level.

                      How to do it
                      1.1 Engage the community                                                Active ownership by
                      For successful implementation of the WSP, it
                      is important that the community, particularly                           community members
                      community       leaders    and      decision-makers,
                      understands the benefits of the WSP approach.
                                                                                              in the operation,
                      Buy-in from decision-makers for the WSP process                         maintenance and
                      is needed to obtain support for changes in the
                      operation, maintenance and management of                                management of their
                      the community water supply and to ensure that
                      sufficient resources are available.
                                                                                              water supplies is crucial in
                                                                                              small communities.
                      The community as a whole can be engaged in a
                      number of ways. It is generally more efficient and
                      effective to identify suitable members of the community to represent the community’s interests as part
                      of a WSP team. Other methods of engagement include, for example, public meetings, participatory
                      techniques (e.g. participatory rural appraisal, mapping, transect walk, pocket chart; see Glossary) and
                      subgroup (corner) meetings by service areas or interest groups (women, the poor, farmers). A visit to a
                      nearby community that has successfully applied a WSP is a good way to trigger interest in the approach.




                      Meeting with community members in Pendzhekent district, Tajikistan   Corner meeting in Tharpu, Nepal




>8    Task 1 Engage the community and assemble a water safety plan team
                                                                                       From left to right:




                                                                                                                          Task 1
                                                                                       Chairman, accountant
                                                                                       and plumber of the
                                                                                       Anbukhaireni WSP
                                                                                       scheme committee in
                                                                                       Tanhu district, Nepal, in
                                                                                       front of the scheme map
                                                                                       including 600 household
                                                                                       connections, made as
                                                                                       part of the development
                                                                                       of a WSP. The leadership
                                                                                       of the chairman and
                                                                                       the effective linkage




                                                                                                                          Task 2
                                                                                       between this community
                                                                                       scheme and the district
                                                                                       water office has enabled
                                                                                       continuous improvement
                                                                                       since completion of the
                                                                                       scheme in 1995, with a
                                                                                       focus on water treatment
                                                                                       and quality in the last
                                                                                       two years as part of the
                                                                                       WSP. The majority of
                                                                                       investments have been
                                                                                       made using revenues
                                                                                       generated by the scheme




                                                                                                                          Task 3
                                                                                       itself.




1.2 Assemble a WSP team
The WSP team will be responsible for developing, implementing and maintaining the WSP. The team is
also needed to help the community to understand and accept the WSP approach. When choosing WSP
team members, it is best to consult community leaders, such as elders, elected officials or other persons
who know the community well. Ideally, team members will have varying backgrounds. People who have
one or more of the following characteristics should be considered for team membership:




                                                                                                                          Task 4
zz is familiar with, and uses water from, the water supply;
zz is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the water supply or has helped during construction or
   earlier repairs;
zz has the authority to make decisions about spending money, training, recruiting staff and/or making
   changes to the water supply;
zz has the knowledge and capacity to identify and characterize potential risks to the water supply from
   the catchment to the consumer;
zz is responsible for or has the capacity to help manage and prevent those risks;
zz is influential and interested, at both the community level and at least one administrative level up, in
                                                                                                                          Task 5

   representing water quality concerns and investment needs at the district level or higher.

It helps to include people with knowledge of the catchment area (e.g. land owners and users) and of the
history of the water supply in the community (e.g. community elders), those with the greatest interest in
safe water (often women) and those who can influence how the water supply is managed (e.g. community
leaders and opinion leaders). Health staff and teachers should also be considered as members or resource
persons.
                                                                                                                          Task 6




                                                              Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   9<
                       It is recommended that the WSP team involve local
                       or regional government officials, particularly those         Need for external support
                       with experience in drinking-water related issues, early      Small community water supplies may require
                       in the WSP process. These may also include district          independent external support systems
                       or community health workers and environmental/               at national, regional and local levels, such as:
                       agricultural extension workers. Depending on the
                       local regulatory environment, it is wise to ensure           zz training and education to build
                       upfront that regulatory requirements or restrictions            understanding and expertise;
                       for the water supply system are taken into account.          zz technical advice and guidance;
                       Local officials may have access to this information.         zz financial and management support;
                                                                                    zz monitoring of services and water quality;
                       Outside experts can provide useful advice and                zz surveillance and independent oversight.
                       expertise, even if they are not full-time members
                       of the team. They can provide assistance in
                       identifying hazards and prioritizing risks and, during subsequent implementation of the WSP, may facilitate
                       support and assistance, either financial or in-kind. They will often be able to provide the community
                       with additional information and training materials and link them with other experts, communities and
                       practitioners. Examples of outside experts include NGOs, local consultancy firms and government
                       projects with specialized units (e.g. the technical support units in the decentralized water sector in
                       Uganda).

                       A WSP team leader should also be identified to oversee and drive WSP development and implementation
                       efforts. This person should have sufficient authority in the community and good organizational and
                       communication skills.

                       1.3 Document team membership
                       Once the WSP team is identified, participants’ names and roles should be documented and shared with
                       all team members and the community. An example of the type of information to be gathered is shown
                       in Table 1.1.

                       Table 1.1. Example of information to capture about WSP team members

                         Name                         Role in the                Interest in the            Address and
                                                      community                  water supply               contact details
                                                                                                            (phone/e-mail)

                         (Mr) Surya Nath              Chairman of                Helped construct and       Kalika VDC, Ward
                         Adhikhari                    the water user             maintain the system        No. 6, Sunpadali,
                                                      committee                  since its initiation       mobile 98460 31617

                         (Mrs) Anjali Shrestha        Public health              Controlling dysentery      Pokhara Nagar
                                                      officer                    and occasional             Palikha, Ward
                                                                                 outbreaks of typhoid       No. 27, opposite
                                                                                                            Everest Primary
                                                                                                            School, mobile 98560
                                                                                                            87251

                         (Mr) Tika Ram                Farmer with land           Using water from the       Kalika VDC, Ward
                         Prajapati                    near the intake            same watershed             No. 9, Dhimal Chowk




> 10   Task 1 Engage the community and assemble a water safety plan team
Tips




                                                                                                                            Task 1
»» When the team composition is posted on the local notice board, it may be helpful to include a
   photograph of each person on the team. A photograph makes the notice more attractive, potentially
   raising interest, while also acknowledging community members for their inputs.
»» It may not be possible to bring together the entire team right at the beginning. This is normal and should
   not slow down the process. Part of the WSP process is to identify gaps in the community’s knowledge
   and expertise and to work together to fill those gaps. New members can easily be added later in the
   process, or persons with specific expertise (e.g. a public health officer or a teacher) may need to be
   invited for a few sessions only.




                                                                                                                            Task 2
»» The WSP team should plan to meet regularly to develop, implement and review the WSP. It is likely that
   more meetings will be needed during the initial stages of WSP development. As WSP implementation
   progresses and the team becomes more familiar with the WSP approach, fewer meetings may be
   required.
»» Community engagement should not be limited to the start of the process. It is beneficial to try to
   engage community members throughout the WSP process and mobilize them for each of the main
   tasks. It is important to focus particularly on women, as they are often responsible for water collection
   and family health, and schoolchildren, who can study aspects of the system (e.g. types of animals and
   crops in the catchment).




                                                                                                                            Task 3
»» An annual water week (or day) festival focusing on water safety, water quality, sanitation and hygiene,
   organized in the community, is a good way to raise interest and may make it possible to generate the
   resources for improvements. For example, the WSP team could consider planning an event around
   already established community events or around World Water Day (22 March) and linking it with any
   activities being planned in the region by other stakeholders, including government and NGOs.
»» In new schemes, it should be easier to incorporate the WSP approach in the community mobilization
   and planning phase. In existing schemes, a fresh effort may be needed to raise interest and generate a
   community drive for developing and implementing a WSP.
»» Government and NGOs should be engaged from the beginning, as they may be interested in and able




                                                                                                                            Task 4
   to provide support for developing and implementing a WSP.
»» The WSP team may wish to explore partnership arrangements for peer-to-peer support. Partnerships
   could be formed between two neighbouring communities to facilitate knowledge exchange for
   community-managed supplies that are both initiating a WSP or where a community experienced with
   the WSP approach would help the other community in setting up the WSP process. Partnerships could
   also be formed between a larger organized supply and a community-managed supply, where the larger
   supply would support the community-managed supply.                                                                       Task 5

   Outputs:
   zz A team of individuals representing the community’s interests:
      -- with knowledge of the water supply system and how to identify and prioritize potential risks
         to the community water supply, including health, social, environmental, development and
         physical planning considerations
      -- with interest in promoting sustained access to safe drinking-water
      -- who can help mitigate risks
   zz Support from relevant government units and NGOs
                                                                                                                            Task 6




                                                               Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   11 <
       Task 2 Describe the community water supply


                        The WSP development process provides a framework to give the community a better understanding
                        of the health concerns related to their water supply and empower it to act through ownership over
                        its water supply. A complete map and description of the water supply system are a precious source
                        of information that will help the WSP team and the community members identify hazards and their
                        potential impacts on water safety.



                            Catchment/                                                                                   Consumer
                                                                    Treatment                Storage and
                            Abstraction                                                                               may also (treat and)
                                                                     if applied              Distribution
                           for water source                                                                             store at home

                        Components of a piped water supply system


                        A community water supply system may be made up of a number of connected components, as illustrated
                        for a piped scheme above. Alternatively, a community may have several point water sources (e.g. protected
                        springs, wells, boreholes, rainwater harvesters) serving tens or hundreds of households. The WSP team
                        should check all of these sources and include them in the community WSP.

                        How to do it
                        2.1 Draw a map
                        The first task of the WSP team will be to understand what is in place. An easy way to do this is to
                        make a map/flow diagram of the water supply, including relevant elements of the catchment area and
                        the community served. A great deal of information can be recorded and presented in a drawing. Such
                        mapping of the community water supply from catchment to consumer is an essential part of the water
                        supply description.

                                                                                        Simple maps prepared with pencil and paper may
                                                                                        be used. Specialized equipment and/or skills to
                                                                                        develop maps are not necessary. However, maps
                                                                                        should be sufficiently detailed to easily identify
                                                                                        hazards and risks to the water supply. Therefore,
                                                                                        when a community water supply is made up of
                                                                                        a number of connected components, it may be
                                                                                        helpful to develop an overview map of the entire
                                                                                        community supply as well as detailed maps/
                                                                                        schematics of each water supply component.
                                                                                        For example, a catchment map should include
                                                                                        human activities and land uses (e.g. agriculture,
                                                                                        sanitation) that may contribute to microbial and/
                                                                                        or chemical contamination of the water source,
                                                                                        whereas a treatment map should provide details
                                                                                        on the treatment processes used, where particular
                                                                                        chemicals are added, etc. Useful starting points
                                                                                        include local road maps and information from those
                                                                                        who assisted in the design and construction of the
                        Mapping the community water points in a community in northern   water supply. These individuals often have maps
                        Nigeria                                                         and technical drawings that can be copied.




> 12    Task 2 Describe the community water supply
2.2 Gather supporting information




                                                                                                                         Task 1
General information also needs to be gathered           Case-study: System mapping in
and recorded to describe the water supply and its       Guyana
management, including the various sources in use.       Through the development of a detailed
The type of information collected should include,       schematic for a simple treatment system
but is not limited to:                                  involving storage and chlorination, it
                                                        was revealed that chlorine was added
zz relevant water quality standards;                    following storage and immediately prior to
zz known or suspected changes in source water           distribution, allowing only a few minutes of
   quality relating to weather or other conditions;     contact time before the water reached the
zz details relating to the land uses in the




                                                                                                                         Task 2
                                                        first customers. Drawing the detailed map
   catchment;                                           led operators to investigate the chlorine
zz details relating to the treatment, distribution      addition point, which was previously
   and storage of the water;                            unknown and not considered. Without the
zz who uses the water supply and for what               development of a detailed schematic, this
   purpose;                                             important risk would have been missed.
zz the person(s) currently responsible for
   operating the system and what education and
   training they received;
zz what financial and human resources are available for managing and operating the supply;




                                                                                                                         Task 3
zz management procedures (e.g. operations, maintenance, inspection), if they exist;
zz the legal ownership of land used and other properties in the catchment;
zz details on existing sanitation facilities, including their location.

Table 2.1 provides guidance on how to describe each of the major components for the example of a
piped water supply. This is not an exhaustive list, nor is each point relevant for every small community
water supply. The local water office will often have more extensive guidance. Similar template lists for
hand pumps or protected springs may also be available from the local water office or NGOs.




                                                                                                                         Task 4
                                                                                                                         Task 5
                                                                                                                         Task 6




Water supply system in Mele, Efate, Vanuatu




                                                            Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   13 <
       Table 2.1. Examples of factors to be considered when describing the major components of
       a piped water supply system

        Catchment/abstraction               Treatment                       Storage and                     User installations
                                                                            distribution

        Catchment:                          What water treatment            Are the storage tanks           What are the current water uses
        What are the characteristics        processes are in place, and     protected (e.g. rainproof       (e.g. drinking, preparation of
        of the water source(s) (e.g.        how are they configured?        with gutters)?                  food, personal hygiene, clothes
        quantity and quality)?              What chemicals and              Are there screens on            washing, domestic livestock,
                                            materials are used for          ventilation and overflows       vegetable farming, fish market)
        Are there seasonal or                                                                               and future needs (quantity and
        weather variations? What is         treatment? What are the         to prevent vermin and
                                            availability and quality of     animal entry?                   quality)?
        their impact on the quality
        and quantity of the water           the chemicals? How are          Is there adequate               What are the numbers
        source(s)?                          they stored?                    protection/security on          and type of users, including
                                            Is the water disinfected?       storage tanks with locked       commercial users (e.g. homes,
        Where are the catchment                                                                             hotels, guesthouses, institutions,
        and recharge areas?                 If so, what methods and         gates and hatches?
                                            disinfectants are used? Is                                      workshops, small industry)?
        What are the catchment                                              Are there separate inlets
                                            there sufficient disinfectant   and outlets at varying          Are there any vulnerable groups
        characteristics, including          (e.g. chlorine) contact time                                    or special needs within the
        details on land use (e.g.                                           heights on opposite sides
                                            for proper disinfection?        of tanks to promote good        population, including the infirm
        household, sanitation,                                                                              or sick and aged? Are there
        industry, agriculture, wildlife)?   Is water quality monitored?     mixing?
                                            How? How often? Where?                                          hospitals and schools?
        Abstraction (for spring                                             What construction
                                            Are treatment plant             materials are used in the       Do households treat and store
        boxes, wells, boreholes,                                                                            water? By what means?
        streams, etc.):                     operators trained?              infrastructure, and how old
                                            Are there minimum               is the infrastructure?          How is water collected and
        Where is the abstraction            competency standards, and                                       transported?
        point located, and how does                                         Does the distribution
                                            do operators meet such          operate constantly or           Are stand posts and house
        it operate?                         standards?                      intermittently?                 connections inspected, and is
        What human activities take                                                                          water quality tested? How? How
        place near the abstraction                                          Is there secondary
                                                                            disinfection, and, if so,       often?
        point?
                                                                            are chlorine residuals in       Is water quality monitored at
        What types of sanitation                                            critical points in the system   stand posts and at households?
        facilities are in the community                                     monitored and recorded?         By whom? How often?
        (or is open defecation being
        practised)? Where are these                                         What is the average             What education/training has
        sanitation facilities located?                                      pressure in the system,         been given to the community
        What is their distance from                                         and does it vary? What is       about its water supply?
        the abstraction point?                                              the flow rate at the tank       How is wastewater handled?
                                                                            inlet and tap points in the
        What is the abstraction                                             system?                         Is there backflow prevention?
        infrastructure made of, and
        how old is it?                                                      Is water quality monitored? What material is used for
                                                                            How? How often? Where? domestic pipe work, and how
        What is the capacity/flow of                                                                    old is it?
        abstraction?                                                                                        Are consumers aware of
        Are there protection                                                                                regulatory requirements for
        measures around the                                                                                 drinking-water quality (e.g.
        abstraction area (e.g. fencing,                                                                     drinking-water standards)?
        grating)?




> 14   Task 2 Describe the community water supply
                                                                                                                                        Task 1
     Understanding the catchment area
     A good understanding of the catchment area is an important part of the system description and
     facilitates hazard identification in the next task. The catchment, or drainage basin, is a discrete
     area of land that has a common drainage system. A catchment includes both the water bodies
     that convey the water and the land surface from which water drains into these bodies (Helmer &
     Hespanhol, 1997).
     It is important to understand where the source water originates. For wells, boreholes or springs
     supplied by groundwater, investigation may be required. The groundwater may be of local origin,
     or it may have travelled underground for a considerable distance. Local knowledge can often




                                                                                                                                        Task 2
     identify where the water originated, but, if needed and resources are available, a local or regional
     hydrogeologist should be asked for advice. Further information can also be found in Protecting
     groundwater for health (Schmoll et al., 2006).
     It is likely that the catchment area will not be fully understood in the beginning. Nevertheless, it
     is critical to take steps to better understand the catchment with existing resources. The system
     description can be updated at a later date once additional resources and skills become available.


2.3 Check the map and water supply description




                                                                                                                                        Task 3
It is important for the WSP team to physically check the description of the water supply system through
a walk or site inspection (e.g. by following the “flow of water” through the water supply system). Taking
photos and reviewing related documentation can also be useful. The water supply map and description
should be updated based on this check. This activity could also be conducted as part of 2.1 (drawing a
map).

2.4 Discuss and identify community water supply objectives
The following questions can help in developing holistic community water supply objectives:




                                                                                                                                        Task 4
zz   What do we want and need from our water supply?
zz   What are our current water supply and sanitation systems, and how are they operated?
zz   What problems are there with the water supply?
zz   Who is involved, and who should be involved, in ensuring that we have the water we need and want?
zz   What else, other than the water supply, is needed for a healthy and sustainable community?
zz   What other water supply aspects should/can be considered (e.g. other activities for which water is
     needed, such as fruit and vegetable gardening, growing rice seedlings for transplanting, domestic livestock)?

It is important to discuss the benefits of
safe drinking-water and good hygiene
                                                                                                                                        Task 5


with the community and the linkages
among water supply, sanitation and
hygiene. Hygiene education and
health promotion activities, received
via other community members, from
public health staff, by mass media or
while in school, should be reinforced.
With understanding comes an
appreciation of the value of hygienic
behaviours on health, opening the
                                                                                                                                        Task 6




door to sustained behaviour change.          Discussing the results of community mapping of water points in Baganbari slum, Dhaka,
                                             Bangladesh




                                                                           Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   15 <
                       Tips
                       »» Often information is already available in the community. Members of the WSP team should be a useful
                          source of information, as well as community members and outside experts.
                       »» It is important to record the date on any drawings or documents, because situations change over time.
                       »» During the mapping of the water supply, all sources should be visited.
                       »» For new or upgraded supplies, system information should be documented right away before memories
                          begin to fade.
                       »» If the capacity exists locally and costs are affordable, arrangements should be made with the local
                          health or water office to test water samples from the community water supplies and source waters.
                          The community may also want to record other indicators, such as continuity of service and aesthetic
                          qualities (e.g. colour, smell). This will contribute to establishing a baseline on water quality and quality
                          of service, reflecting the situation at the beginning of the WSP process, against which the impact of the
                          improvements can be measured.
                       »» The local water or health office, or sometimes the local authority, can inform the WSP team and the
                          community about relevant national public health regulations and laws, including the national drinking-
                          water quality standards and associated policies and implementation strategies.
                       »» Each community and its circumstances are unique. Each community must have the opportunity to
                          develop its own objectives. External resource persons or local government may help with the process
                          to ensure that the objectives meet or exceed legal requirements for the community water supply
                          system.


                          Outputs:
                          zz Maps/drawings and descriptions of the community water supply from catchment to abstraction,
                             treatment, storage, distribution and the consumer, as applicable
                          zz Identification of the users and uses of the water




> 16   Task 2 Describe the community water supply
Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous
        events, risks and existing control
        measures

  The process of hazard identification involves identifying actual and potential dangers and their causes.




                                                                                                                               Task 1
  Hazard identification should be based on community knowledge (including historical information),
  recurring local events (e.g. heavy runoff or floods during heavy rainfall periods or thaw), checklists
  included in water supply guidelines or developed by local water or public health offices, sanitary
  inspections and expert advice.

  It is also good practice to keep track of events and risks that may arise due to changes in or around the
  system as a result of land use changes, construction, new industry, etc. Keeping the WSP up to date and
  valid is critical and will pay off in reduced risk and less damage during unexpected events.

  What are the most common hazards?




                                                                                                                               Task 2
  When people fall ill not long after drinking the water from the water supply system, it may indicate that
  drinking-water has been contaminated with microbial pathogens or, much less commonly, poisoned with
  chemicals from industrial or agricultural accidents. Between 1991 and 2002, 207 waterborne outbreaks
  were reported in the United States, of which only 16% (33) were attributed to chemical rather than
  microbial contamination (Craun, 2006).

  In addition, hazardous chemicals may occur naturally in, or contaminate, the source water through runoff
  or leaching. High, but not immediately toxic, levels of chemical contaminants in drinking-water can lead to
  chronic or long-term health issues that may show up in the population only after many years.




                                                                                                                               Task 3
  Aesthetic concerns, while not directly health related, can have an important impact on overall water
  safety in a community. For example, water that is safe but has a bad appearance, taste or odour may not
  be accepted by consumers and may lead them to seek out other, aesthetically acceptable, but less safe,
  alternatives. Conversely, water that tastes good has a positive impact on people’s general feeling of well-
  being and potentially on the overall vitality and sustainability of the community.

  How to do it
  3.1 Look for signs of hazards and hazardous events




                                                                                                                               Task 4
  When identifying hazards and hazardous events, the WSP team should first look for signs that may signal
  issues caused by contaminated water supplies. Some common signs are presented in Table 3.1.



     Hazard: A biological, chemical, physical or radiological
     agent that can cause harm to public health. If people use
     empty pesticide containers to collect drinking-water, the pesticide
     residues that are likely to contaminate the water pose a clear
     health hazard.
                                                                                                                               Task 5


     Hazardous event:                An incident or situation that
     introduces or amplifies a hazard to, or fails to remove a
     hazard from, the water supply. Heavy rainfall is a hazardous
     event that may create pathways for microbial pathogens in
     excreta (the hazard) to enter the source water, distribution
     system or storage tank.

     Risk: The likelihood of a hazard causing harm to exposed              Recent road construction exposed a section
                                                                           of buried mains high-density polyethylene
     populations in a specific time frame and the magnitude and/           pipeline for a water supply system in Nepal.
     or consequences of that harm. The practice of open defecation
                                                                                                                               Task 6




                                                                           A vehicle can damage this pipeline
     creates a risk associated with microbial pathogens in human           (hazardous event), potentially causing
                                                                           disruption of safe water supply to some
     excreta, especially during rainfall, as runoff containing human
                                                                           70 households (risk).
     excreta is likely to contaminate drinking-water sources with
     disease-causing organisms.




                                                                  Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   17 <
  Table 3.1. Signs that may signal acute or chronic health-based and aesthetic issues caused by contaminated water
  supplies

       Potential signs                            Possible hazards                             Contamination source/hazardous event
                                                  (and other issues to consider)
       Acute water-related health issues

       Diarrhoea and dysentery (including         Microbial pathogens                          Open defecation or nearby sanitation facilities
       occasional outbreaks of cholera and                                                     cause faecal matter to enter the source water
       typhoid fever) and other waterborne                                                     or the system
       infections such as hepatitis are                                                        Source contamination from agriculture (use of
       widespread within the community,                                                        manure) or wildlife
       particularly affecting the young, old                                                   Dirty water with suspended particles such as
       and health compromised                                                                  silt, clay or organic matter, often from flood
                                                                                               waters or following rainstorms
       Methaemoglobinaemia in bottle-fed          High levels of nitrates/nitrites with        Sewage discharges, poorly maintained
       infants                                    associated microbial contamination and       septic tanks, animal manure and runoff from
                                                  diarrhoea                                    agriculture
       Chronic water-related health issues
       Mottling and staining of teeth in          High fluoride levels                         Naturally occurring in some groundwaters
       young children and teenagers, brittle
       bones and crippling
       Pigmentation changes (melanosis) and       High arsenic levels                          Naturally occurring in some groundwaters
       thickening of the skin (hyperkeratosis),
       increased rates of cancers
       Skin irritation (skin rash, hives, itchy   Algae and algal toxins                       High nutrient levels in warm and stagnant
       eyes and throat), tingling around the                                                   surface water (ponds, tanks), resulting in algal
       mouth and fingertips, slurred speech;                                                   blooms, which may release toxins
       animals who drink the water may die
       Aesthetic issues
       High corrosion rates of metals in          High metal concentrations; may pose          Soft, acidic water (e.g. rainwater) in contact
       contact with water                         health concern in some cases (e.g.           with unprotected metal pipes and fittings
                                                  lead)
       Stains on fixtures or laundry, coloured    High metal concentrations                    May result from corroding pipes in the
       water with metallic taste                  • copper (green/blue-coloured water or       distribution system; in tubewell supplies, it may
                                                    stains); may pose health concern           be naturally occurring in groundwater with
                                                  • iron (brown/red-coloured water)            elevated iron and manganese levels or from
                                                                                               “overturning” of reservoirs
                                                  • manganese (black/dark brown stains)
       Unpleasantly salty taste                   High sodium chloride levels; may pose        Naturally occurring in some groundwaters,
                                                  health concerns to those on sodium-          may be from seawater (coastal areas) or
                                                  restricted diets                             caused by runoff of road salt (cold climates)
                                                                                               or evaporation residue in irrigated areas (hot
                                                                                               climates)
       Rotten egg odour and taste, corrosive      High sulfide levels; usually not harmful     Naturally occurring in some groundwaters,
       black spots in pipes                       to health, but may be associated with        but could indicate industrial waste, oil, coal or
                                                  high organic matter content (coloured        stagnant water
                                                  water)
       Brown-coloured water without               High levels of natural organic               Naturally occurring in some surface waters
       particles                                  matter; could result in high levels of       from lakes or rivers with submerged
                                                  disinfection by-products if water is         vegetation
                                                  chlorinated
       Soap does not lather, white scale          High hardness (calcium and                   Usually from limestone and chalk aquifers
       builds up on pots or kettles when          magnesium); not harmful to health, but
       water is heated                            may make the water difficult to treat
                                                  and use

> 18        Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
3.2 Identify hazards and hazardous events




                                                                                                                                    Task 1
The WSP team should identify hazards and hazardous events for each stage of the drinking-water supply
by asking the questions:



          What can go wrong? How, when, where and why?




                                                                                                                                    Task 2
For each component identified in the
water supply map, the WSP team
should identify the relevant hazards and
hazardous events. Some are obvious,
and others need reflection and on-site
checking. Their occurrence and control
depend on many factors, including:

zz type of source water (surface
   water, groundwater, rainwater);




                                                                                                                                    Task 3
zz how the water is distributed (piped,
   carried, storage, materials used,
   distance and time);
zz location (hillside, flood-prone area,     An unprotected public water collection point in Fayzabad district, Tajikistan
   near roads or developed areas);
zz social situation (public or private taps, personal hygiene practices, waste and wastewater disposal,
   supply also used for animal watering or crop irrigation);
zz energy supply and mechanicals (availability, reliability and location of fuel and electricity, maintenance
   and spare parts);
zz hours of supply (intermittent, permanent or only dry season);




                                                                                                                                    Task 4
zz availability of chemicals and funds for treatment and distribution.

The WSP team should consider not only the obvious hazards and hazardous events associated with the
water supply, but also the potential for them to occur or be compounded through:

zz   lack of understanding of the water supply system and how to operate it;
zz   operational failures, as a result of power shutdown or disruption;
zz   various shortcomings associated with faulty infrastructure;
zz   treatment failures, including equipment breakdown or operator error;
zz   accidental contamination;
                                                                                                                                    Task 5

zz   natural hazardous events, including heavy rainfalls, thaw, landslides, floods or droughts;
zz   human-made disasters, resulting from neglect or sabotage.

The team members may identify many issues, depending on their experience and expertise. Care
must be taken to reflect the real importance of the hazard in each situation. There is little value in
preparing a “shopping list” when the hazard identified is not relevant to local circumstances. (Note that
an evaluation of the hazard and hazardous event, in terms of how likely it is that the event will occur and
its impact if it occurs, is described in 3.3.)

Some of the hazards and hazardous events that can occur, which the WSP team may want to consider,
                                                                                                                                    Task 6




are indicated in Table 3.2. This is not an exhaustive list, nor is every point relevant for every small
community water supply. The WSP team should ensure that special situations that pose a real associated
risk in their community but are not listed in the table (e.g. filthy runoff from the slaughtering site at the
weekly local market) are addressed. Local water or public health offices may have additionally developed
locally relevant checklists.



                                                                       Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   19 <
   Table 3.2. Examples of hazards and hazardous events organized by different components of a drinking-water
   supply
       Catchment/abstraction                             Treatment              Storage and distribution                          User installations
       Acute health risk due to disease-causing microorganisms in drinking-water

       Rainstorm events and heavy rainfall causing       Microbial pathogen     Access to service reservoir by humans or          Contamination of
       high pollution load (due to runoff)               loading exceeds        animals, including insects and birds (e.g. lack   domestic water because
       Septic tanks in catchment and raw sewage          treatment              of screen at air vents)                           of poor hygienic
       causing faecal matter to enter water source       removal capacity       Ingress of contaminated runoff through            practices associated with
                                                         (e.g. chlorine         service reservoir inspection covers               storage containers (e.g.
       Swimming, boating, fishing or other human         concentration                                                            storage in wide-mouthed,
       activities possibly introducing faecal material   and contact time       Inflow of contaminated roof drainage to           uncovered containers or
       Wastewater or urban stormwater                    insufficient)          service reservoir                                 hand dipping of cups)
       discharge/local flooding                          Failure of             Poor cleaning of pipes and tanks                  Rainwater system
       Intensive animal farming around shallow           disinfection system    Contamination of collected water because          without functioning first-
       groundwater wells                                 Short-circuiting       of the use of containers or jerry cans            flush discharge device
                                                         within tanks, (e.g.    without a screw cap and poor hygienic             or filter
       Cracked spring box, well or borehole                                     practices associated with containers
       infrastructures, allowing ingress of faecally     some water to be                                                         No place to hang the
       contaminated runoff or leachate                   treated passes too     Pipe breakage due to old pipes or road            bucket to keep it clean
                                                         quickly through the    crossing                                          when using an open well
       Direct access of animals to abstraction           treatment tank as
       infrastructures                                                          Contamination from broken sewerage pipes          Cross-connections with
                                                         a result of flaws in                                                     non-drinking-water
       Latrines nearby water abstraction,                tank design, such as   Low pressure or intermittent operation            systems in the home
       introducing contamination                         to the inlet/outlet)   causing influx of contaminants
                                                                                                                                  Insufficient residual
                                                                                Insufficient residual chlorine                    chlorine

       Acute health risk due to short-term exposure to hazardous chemicals in drinking-water

       Excessive or inappropriate use or                 Overdosing and         Cross-connections from chemical storage           Backflow from a
       inappropriate disposal of pesticides,             contamination with                                                       household or institution
       insecticides, herbicides, etc. in agriculture     chemicals (e.g.                                                          (hospital, workshop,
       Wastewater discharges containing high             fluoride, alum)                                                          garage or small factory
       concentrations of industrial chemicals (e.g.      No treatment for                                                         including chemical
       cyanide spilt to sewer)                           specific chemicals                                                       storage)
       Chemical spills or industrial accidents           or toxins, or
                                                         exceeding the
       Algal blooms in reservoir (toxins)                treatment limit

       Chronic health risk due to medium- or long-term exposure to hazardous chemicals in drinking-water

       Naturally occurring fluoride or arsenic in        Overdosing and         Corrosion of materials used (copper,              Corrosion of materials
       groundwater                                       contamination with     lead)                                             used in domestic
       Pesticide and fertilizer use (e.g. in             chemicals (e.g.                                                          plumbing (copper, lead)
       plantations, agriculture and horticulture)        fluoride, chlorate                                                       Continued use of a
                                                         from poorly stored                                                       domestic filter, when
       Leaching from waste upstream of                   hypochlorite)                                                            the filter medium is
       community water sources (e.g. solid                                                                                        exhausted (arsenic,
       wastes, mining wastes, contaminated                                                                                        fluoride)
       landfills)
       Frequent urban stormwater discharge                                                                                        Cross-connections with
       (runoff of high concentrations of heavy                                                                                    non-drinking-water
       metals and hydrocarbons)                                                                                                   systems in the home
       Leakage/waste of hydrocarbons and
       other chemicals from commercial sites or
       fuel stations
       Improper disposal of chlorinated solvents
       used for degreasing, resulting in high
       concentrations in groundwater

       Aesthetic issues

       Soil erosion and runoff (high turbidity)          Treatment              Material corrosion (high iron levels)             Material corrosion on
       Stratification, overturning of reservoirs         malfunctions (e.g.     Stagnant water in pipes or tanks due to           internal galvanized pipe
       (high iron, manganese levels)                     high chlorine,         poor design and operation (e.g. dead              work (high iron levels)
                                                         alum levels) (taste,   ends, low points) (taste, odour, colour)          Stagnant water in internal
       Heavy rainfall or thaw (high turbidity,           odour, colour, high                                                      system
       colour)                                           turbidity)             Increase or reversal of flow, causing
       Excessive use of tubewell during drought                                 scouring, stirring or sloughing of
       (high turbidity)                                                         accumulated sediments and biofilms (high
                                                                                turbidity)
                                                                                Poor cleaning of pipes and tanks (taste,
                                                                                odour, high turbidity)


> 20        Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
                                                                                                                                                Task 1
Importance of sanitary inspections
Sanitary inspection is a powerful on-site fact-finding activity that can strongly
support WSP implementation. It can be particularly useful in systematically
identifying potential hazards and hazardous events, thus informing the risk
assessment process. Sanitary inspection specifically:
zz assists in identifying potential contamination sources that would be missed by
   water quality analysis alone;
zz supports adequate interpretation of water quality laboratory results;
zz provides information about known, immediate and ongoing contamination;




                                                                                                                                                Task 2
zz provides a longer-term perspective on causes of contamination;
zz enhances knowledge of the water supply system;
zz evaluates the effectiveness of operation and maintenance procedures.
Sanitary inspection typically makes use of standardized “sanitary inspection forms”
containing a systematic checklist of a limited
number of specific questions (often not
more than 10 or 12 per form), which can be
answered by the assessor using a mixture
of visual observation and interviews on-




                                                                                                                                                Task 3
site. The sanitary inspection form shown
to the right demonstrates this approach
for a rainwater tank supply, where each
question answered with “yes” represents a
risk. An important feature, and benefit, of
this approach is that it both gives a score
related to risk and makes it apparent what
improvements could be made to reduce
that score, and hence reduce the risk.
Sanitary inspection tools are available for




                                                                                                                                                Task 4
a variety of situations and water supplies.
Examples of sanitary inspection forms are
included in Annex 2 of the WHO Guidelines
for drinking-water quality, Volume 3,
Surveillance and control of community supplies
(WHO, 1997), available at http://www.who.
int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/2edvol3h.
pdf. Sanitary inspection forms should be
designed to match local circumstances.
National or regional agencies may have
                                                                                                                                                Task 5


developed or be promoting a specific tool
for use; the WSP team should consult with
district or national officials to find out what
already exists (e.g. localized inspection
forms in national or local languages).            Example of a sanitary inspection form and risk score for rainwater collection and storage
                                                                                                                                                Task 6




                                                               Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                       21 <
                           Case-study: Sunpadali, Nepal
                           When the WSP was started in Sunpadali, Nepal, in 2008, questions were raised regarding
                           the quality of the source water when interventions did not seem to reduce occasional typhoid
                           fever outbreaks in the community. The source water area seemed pristine, but, unknown to the
                           Sunpadali water user committee, some 10 poor landless families had settled on level land about
                           100 metres in elevation above the intake. It turned out that these households were practising open
                           defecation. The Sunpadali water user committee and the local government (which allowed these
                           people to settle there) therefore helped the new settlers to construct latrines, and consultation
                           and regular sanitary inspection of the source water area and the newly settled area have since
                           prevented further microbial contamination (H. Heijnen, personal communication, 2010).


                        Look at the picture and reflect on the hazards/hazardous events. Some problems can be easily
                        corrected, but this needs leadership and community commitment. See the next page for answers.




                        In the Northern Karamoja region in Uganda, this hand pump enclosure is opened in the morning and in the afternoon by an elder
                        (left) who also supervises the collection of the water. Water is scarce here, and people suffer from many diseases, including skin
                        and eye problems. The water point area is fenced with prickly bushes, so animals cannot get inside, but instead have to drink
                        water from the trough at the end of the drain leading out of the enclosure.




> 22   Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
                                                                                                                            Task 1
   Figure on previous page: What hazards/hazardous events can be identified, and what other issues
   should be considered?
   1. Several of the containers being used to collect the water have large openings, making the vessels
       vulnerable to contamination after collection. Consumer education should focus on hygienic
       water storage and handling practices.
   2. The borehole provides limited water supply (see the line of containers), and long waiting may
       encourage people to visit less safe water sources near their homestead during rainy periods.
       Consumer education should therefore also focus on effective water use (for drinking, cooking
       and personal hygiene) during scarce water periods.
   3. The ground is not sloping away from the borehole, allowing water to cause puddles at the




                                                                                                                            Task 2
       wellhead and making the water supply vulnerable to surface contamination.
   4. Although the drain is not visible in the picture, it should be checked daily to see whether or not
       it has been cleaned to ensure that the water flows out of the enclosure properly and into the
       animal watering trough.
   5. Although the watering trough is not visible in the picture, it should be at least 30 metres away
       from the borehole to reduce the risk of groundwater contamination from animal droppings at
       the water point.
   6. Are the surroundings of the enclosure kept free from open defecation?




                                                                                                                            Task 3
3.3 Assess risk associated with hazards and hazardous events
The WSP team can undertake risk assessments in a number of ways. Approaches vary in accuracy,
complexity and effort. For WSP team members, this exercise is often a gradual learning curve of
growing understanding and appreciation of the risks. Generally, it is better for the team to start with less
complicated risk assessments and progress to more precise approaches as more information, skills and
resources become available. This section covers two approaches that could be considered: descriptive risk
assessment and risk ranking.

If possible, the WSP team should have an engineer, a scientist, a public health inspector or a similar expert




                                                                                                                            Task 4
from an NGO help with the hazard identification and risk assessment. They may not be needed for the
whole process, but as they have broader experience, they may come up with issues that the team missed.

Descriptive risk assessment
The simplest risk assessment method is descriptive risk assessment. In this approach, the hazards and
hazardous events are prioritized based on the team’s judgement. For each hazard and hazardous event,
the WSP team should consider the significance of each risk (see Table 3.3), reflecting on and recording
how likely it is that the event will occur in the community and how serious it might be, along with a
consideration of the effectiveness of any existing control measures that are in place to mitigate those risks.
The WSP team should discuss and compare each listing until it agrees on which issues are of greater or
                                                                                                                            Task 5


lesser importance. The team should then write down the issues in order of importance and double-check
the entire list to make sure that it makes sense. At the end of this process, the team has a list of issues
to be addressed, with those of greatest concern at the top. Revisiting the initial listing made in this risk
assessment may be helpful, as team members may have learned more about their “real life” risks in the
process and may wish to adjust some of their assessments.

Undertaking a risk assessment is often a matter of knowing the system, combined with common sense. For
example, broken platforms or allowing laundry to be done on the well apron can increase the potential
for contamination of the well water with soap or faecal matter. In small community water supply schemes,
                                                                                                                            Task 6




many improvements can be made by consumers clearing and cleaning the sources and water points on a
regular basis. It is a worthwhile effort that can be done with little money.




                                                               Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   23 <
                        Table 3.3. Example definitions of descriptors for use in descriptive risk assessment

                          Descriptor            Meaning                     Notes
                          Significant           Clearly a priority          Actions need to be taken to minimize the risk. Possible
                                                                            options (short-, medium- and long-term options) should
                                                                            be documented (as part of the improvement plan
                                                                            developed in the next task) and implemented based on
                                                                            community priorities and available resources.
                          Medium                Medium priority             Currently no impact on drinking-water safety, but
                                                                            requires attention in operation and/or possible
                                                                            improvements in the medium and long term to continue
                                                                            minimizing risks.
                          Insignificant         Clearly not a priority      Actions may be taken but not a priority, or no action is
                                                                            needed at this time. The risk should be revisited in the
                                                                            future as part of the WSP review process.
                          Uncertain             Clarification required      Further data collection or studies are required to better
                                                                            understand the significance of the risk. Some actions
                                                                            can be taken in the meantime as deemed necessary to
                                                                            reduce risk based on existing information, community
                                                                            priorities and available resources.

                        When the WSP team has insufficient information or knowledge available and thus is uncertain in assessing
                        whether or not a risk is significant, risks should be clearly flagged for further investigation. Further study
                        may need to be conducted, or views from experts may need to be sought. It is not uncommon that
                        further information needs to be gathered for the risk assessment.

                        Risk ranking
                        The second risk assessment approach is a more formal, two-step process. This method can be applied
                        if the community has some higher-level support (e.g. water quality unit of the district water agency or a
                        public health inspector) or additional resources in the community. Whereas the previous method focuses
                        primarily on listing and ranking the hazardous events, in this method, the WSP team tries to assess the
                        likelihood of the hazardous event actually occurring and the consequence or severity of the impact of
                        the event to the community. As a first step, the WSP team should draw up definitions for the likelihood
                        (e.g. what is meant by unlikely, possible and likely) and consequence (e.g. what is meant by minor impact,
                        moderate impact and major impact) categories (see Table 3.4). This should be conducted to facilitate
                        consistency in assessments for all parts of the water supply system and over time. When the WSP team is
                        conducting the risk assessment, it is important that its members consider the effectiveness of any existing
                        control measures (see 3.4 for further details) that are in place, in order to help the community prioritize
                        what actions should be taken to improve water quality in the next task.

                        The WSP team should then compare the listings for all hazardous events and their relative likelihood and
                        consequences to make sure that they have been categorized appropriately. Each event is then mapped
                        in a matrix (see Table 3.5) to get a risk ranking. To support the risk ranking, the WSP team should define
                        what is meant by significant (e.g. high and medium) risks so that these can easily be distinguished from less
                        significant risks (see Table 3.6). The figure on page 26 illustrates how to prioritize actions using the risk
                        ranking approach.




> 24   Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
Table 3.4. Example likelihood and severity definitions for the risk ranking approach




                                                                                                                              Task 1
   Descriptor           Description
   Likelihood
                        Will probably occur in most circumstances; has been observed regularly (e.g. daily
   Likely
                        to weekly).
                        Might occur at some time; has been observed occasionally (e.g. monthly to
   Possible
                        quarterly or seasonally).
                        Could occur at some time but has not been observed; may occur only in




                                                                                                                              Task 2
   Unlikely
                        exceptional circumstances.
   Severity/consequence
                        Major water quality impact; illness in community associated with the water supply;
   Major impact         large number of complaints; significant level of customer concern; significant
                        breach of regulatory requirement.
                        Minor water quality impact (e.g. not health related, aesthetic impact) for a large
   Moderate
                        percentage of customers; clear rise in complaints; community annoyance; minor
   impact
                        breach of regulatory requirement.




                                                                                                                              Task 3
                        Minor or negligible water quality impact (e.g. not health related, aesthetic impact)
   No/minor
                        for a small percentage of customers; some manageable disruptions to operation;
   impact
                        rise in complaints not significant.


Table 3.5. Example risk matrix for the risk ranking approach
                                                        Severity/consequences
                                  No/minor impact          Moderate impact               Major impact




                                                                                                                              Task 4
               Likely                 Medium                     High                        High
 Likelihood




              Possible                  Low                    Medium                        High

              Unlikely                  Low                      Low                       Medium

                                                                                                                              Task 5
                                                                                                                              Task 6




                                                                 Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   25 <
                        Table 3.6. Example risk ranking definitions to prioritize actions

                          Risk ranking            Meaning                    Description
                          High                    Clearly a priority:        Actions need to be taken to minimize the risk. Possible
                                                  requires urgent            options should be documented (as part of the improvement
                                                  attention                  plan developed in the next task) and implemented based on
                                                                             community priorities and available resources.
                          Medium                  Medium- or                 Actions may need to be taken to minimize the risk. Possible
                                                  long-term                  options should be documented (as part of the improvement
                                                  priority: requires         plan developed in the next task) and implemented based on
                                                  attention                  community priorities and available resources.
                                                                             Or where the likelihood of a hazard occurring is low
                                                                             because effective control measures are in place but the
                                                                             consequences are major (e.g. microbial risks), special attention
                                                                             should be given to maintaining the control measures and
                                                                             their appropriate operational monitoring to ensure that the
                                                                             likelihood remains low.
                          Low                     Clearly not a              Actions may need to be taken but not a priority, or no action
                                                  priority                   is needed at this time. The risk should be revisited in the
                                                                             future as part of the WSP review process.
                                                                             Or control measures are effective, and attention should be
                                                                             given to ensure that the risk remains low.




                             Risk Assessment
                                                                           High                  Medium               Low
                             (Risk Ranking)




                                                                                                       Control measures
                                                                                 Medium- or
                                                                                                         are adequate;
                                                                                   long-term
                                                     High priority                                        appropriate
                             Risk                                              priority requires
                                                    requires urgent                                        operational
                             Management                                        improvement in                               Not a priority
                                                   improvement in                                       monitoring and
                                                                              control measures
                                                  control measures                                     vigilance required
                                                                              in the medium or
                                                                                                         to ensure risk
                                                                                   long term
                                                                                                          remains low


                        Example diagram on how to prioritize actions using the risk ranking approach




> 26   Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
  The shallow well is                                                                                       Runoff of pesticide,




                                                                                                                                      Task 1
    quite close to the                                                                                      fertilizer or manure
toilet, raising the risk                                                                                    may be a risk in
    of contamination.                                                                                       many rural areas.
     It is better to site                                                                                   If runoff of these
      the well at least                                                                                     contaminants could
     30 metres away                                                                                         affect the water
      from the latrine.                                                                                     supply, zoning should
                                                                                                            be applied, stopping
                                                                                                            their use in the
                                                                                                            designated zone.


3.4 Identify and assess existing control measures




                                                                                                                                      Task 2
The WSP needs to identify any existing control measures or barriers that are already in place and that
address potential hazards and hazardous events. Control measures can be technical (e.g. disinfection),
infrastructural (e.g. fencing), behavioural (e.g. pesticide use) or related to planning (e.g. land use). It is very
important to assess whether these existing barriers are effective at eliminating or reducing the identified
risks; it should not be taken for granted that they are working properly. If control measures are ineffective
or are not currently in place for an identified significant risk, this should be noted and suggestions for
improvement listed. See Task 4 for additional information on control measures.




                                                                                                                                      Task 3
Unprotected well in Scotland that has since been improved!   Protected well in the Federal State of Schleswig-Holstein in Germany




                                                                                                                                      Task 4
    Control measures               (also referred to as barriers or mitigation measures): Activities and
    processes that can be used to prevent, eliminate or significantly reduce the occurrence of a water
    safety hazard.


At the end of this process, the WSP team will have a list of hazards and corresponding hazardous events
to be addressed and a ranking of their priority. An example of how this list could be compiled using the
                                                                                                                                      Task 5

risk ranking approach is shown in Table 3.7.
                                                                                                                                      Task 6




                                                                     Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies       27 <
 Table 3.7. Example of risk assessment and prioritization using the risk ranking approach
  Drinking-        Possible Hazardous              Control               Likelihood               Consequence            Risk    Priority for action
  water system     hazard event                    measures                                                              ranking
  component
  Catchment/       Microbial Cattle and            Unprotected            Likely                  Major                    High   High priority
  abstraction      pathogens sheep can             well: no control       Justification:          Justification:                  Justification:
                             access the            measures in place      Access of cattle        Cattle and sheep faeces         Hazardous event is likely
                             well and the          (e.g. no fence, no     and sheep               may contain a variety           to occur and has major
                             immediate area        wellhead protection    frequently observed     of pathogens, which             consequences, and no control
                             around it, which      works).                by community            may cause illness in the        measures are in place. Short-
                             could result in                              members; animal         community.                      and long-term measures are
                             animal faecal                                faeces are visible                                      required.
                             matter entering                              and can easily be
                             the water                                    washed into well
                             supply.                                      after heavy rainfall.
  Treatment        Microbial Gravity-fed           Failsafe device fitted Unlikely           Major                      Medium Attention required; low
                   pathogens water supply          to the inlet of the Justification:        Justification:                    risk with appropriate
                             continues to          treatment plant,       Device confirmed   Untreated source water            operational monitoring
                             flow through          which diverts the      to be effective    is known to contain a             Justification:
                             the treatment         water if there is a during power          variety of pathogens that         Exposure to microbial pathogens
                             works during          power failure.         failure, tested    may cause illness in the          from the water supply is a major
                             power failures,                              quarterly to ensurecommunity.                        concern. Therefore, special
                             but will not be                              effectiveness.                                       attention should be given to
                             disinfected.                                                                                      maintaining the control measure
                                                                                                                               with appropriate operational
                                                                                                                               monitoring to ensure that the
                                                                                                                               likelihood remains low.
  Treatment        Chlorine   Chlorine dosing      Chlorine dosing      Unlikely             Moderate                   Low    No further action is
                   overdose   can result           is flow-paced to     Justification:       Justification:                    needed; low risk with
                              in chlorine          ensure consistent Disinfection unit       Chlorine overdose can             appropriate operational
                              overdose if          dosing; online       and online analyser cause taste and odour              monitoring
                              control is lost at   chlorine analysers. confirmed to be       problems.                         Justification:
                              the treatment                             effective.                                             Hazardous event is unlikely
                              plant.                                                                                           to occur and has moderate
                                                                                                                               consequences, and existing
                                                                                                                               control measures are adequate.
  Storage and      Microbial Access to water       Cover on water       Likely               Major                      High   High priority
  distribution     pathogens storage tank          storage tank and     Justification:       Justification:                    Justification:
                             could result in       vermin screening     Birds and other      Bird and other animal             Hazardous event is likely
                             bird or other         over vent piping,    small animals have faeces may contain a                to occur and has major
                             animal waste          although cover has been previously        variety of pathogens that         consequences, and existing
                             entering treated      gaps.                found in the         may cause illness in the          control measure (cover) is
                             water.                                     storage tank; animal community.                        inadequate.
                                                                        faeces are visible
                                                                        around the storage
                                                                        tank cover.
  Storage and      Microbial Low-pressure          Backflow             Unlikely             Major                      Medium Attention required; low
  distribution     pathogens/ conditions           prevention devices Justification:         Justification:                    risk with appropriate
                   chemicals (e.g. during          are installed at all Backflow             Backflow from customer            operational monitoring
                              mains breaks)        service connections. prevention           systems into the network          Justification:
                              can result in                             devices have been can introduce a variety              Exposure to microbial pathogens
                              backflow from                             confirmed to be      of pathogens, resulting in        from the water supply is a major
                              customer                                  effective.           widespread distribution           concern. Therefore, special
                              systems into the                                               of contaminated water             attention should be given to
                              network.                                                       to the community, which           maintaining the control measure
                                                                                             may cause illness.                with appropriate operational
                                                                                                                               monitoring to ensure that the
                                                                                                                               likelihood remains low.
  User             Microbial Contamination         None currently in Possible                Moderate                   Medium Medium- or long-term
  installations    pathogens of treated water      place.               Justification:       Justification:                    priority
                             in household                               Meetings held with Consequence is for                  Justification:
                             storage                                    consumers indicate a small percentage of               Hazardous event may occur and
                             containers as a                            that household       consumers, but could be           has moderate consequences, and
                             result of poor                             storage is practised health related.                   no control measures are in place.
                             hygiene (e.g.                              by some (not the
                             hand dipping of                            majority of)
                             cups).                                     consumers
                                                                        periodically.


> 28       Task 3 Identify and assess hazards, hazardous events, risks and existing control measures
Tips




                                                                                                                          Task 1
»» The WSP team should consider engaging other stakeholders when undertaking the hazard identification
   and risk assessment. Community members may reveal information about activities that can contribute
   potential hazards to the water supply. Outside experts, including from regional or national governments
   and NGOs, may need to be consulted to confirm or verify the identification of hazards and hazardous
   events and to ensure that the risks are assessed and prioritized in a systematic and meaningful way.
»» Identification of hazards and hazardous events should always include site visits. For example, visual
   inspections of wells and hand pumps and elements of treatment may reveal hazards that would not
   have been identified through a desk study alone. While on site visits, team members can combine
   system descriptions and hazard identification.




                                                                                                                          Task 2
»» Additional guidance can be found in the following documents:
  • Water safety plan manual: step-by-step risk management for drinking-water suppliers (Bartram et al.,
     2009): http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publication_9789241562638/en/
  • Guidelines for drinking-water quality, Volume 3, Surveillance and control of community supplies (WHO,
     1997): http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/gdwq2v1/en/index2.html


  Outputs:




                                                                                                                          Task 3
  zz Description of what could go wrong and where in terms of hazards and hazardous events
  zz Description of existing control measures and their effectiveness to reduce, eliminate or prevent
     hazards
  zz Assessment of risks expressed in a manner that is easy to understand, interpret and rank
  zz Identification of areas for potential action based on the assessment of the hazards, hazardous
     events, risks and existing control measures




                                                                                                                          Task 4
                                                                                                                          Task 5
                                                                                                                          Task 6




                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   29 <
       Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental
              improvement plan

                       In general, control measures should be designed to address the significant risks identified in the previous
                       task. The team should review its available resources and the community’s needs against the information
                       from the risk assessment (Task 3) to identify which water safety improvements should be implemented
                       with priority and which can be deferred for the medium or long term. When considering work to reduce
                       or eliminate a risk, positive spin-offs, such as the opportunity to make the service more reliable or extending
                       the service area, should be looked at. Comparing costs against all the benefits may generate more interest
                       in supporting the planned work. The incremental improvement plan will be a powerful tool to ensure that
                       limited funds, from both within and outside the community, will be used most effectively.

                       How to do it
                       4.1 Review options to control identified risks
                       In developing and implementing an incremental improvement plan, the WSP team must first review the
                       significant risks determined to require additional control and, for each of these risks, list possible measures
                       that could be put in place to address it.

                       The aim of control measures includes, but is not limited to:

                       zz eliminating or reducing contaminants in the source water, thus preventing them from entering the
                          water supply;
                       zz removing particles and chemicals from the water or killing or inactivating pathogens (i.e. using control
                          measures through treatment, if necessary);
                       zz preventing contamination during drinking-water storage, distribution and handling.

                       When thinking about control measures, the multiple-barrier
                       approach, which consists of an integrated system of activities
                       and processes that collectively ensure drinking-water safety,           Risks to the safety of
                       should be considered. The advantage of this approach is that
                       if a control measure fails, it may be compensated by effective
                                                                                               drinking-water are
                       operation of the remaining control measures, thus minimizing            best controlled using
                       the likelihood of hazards passing through the entire community
                       water supply system. Through the multiple-barrier approach,             a multiple-barrier
                       many (often small) improvements can combine to make a
                       large difference to the quality of drinking-water.
                                                                                               approach.
                       Table 4.1 provides examples of control measures that can be implemented within different parts of a water
                       supply system. Note that not all types of control measures may be applicable in all settings.


                          Example of catchment control
                          The town of Mpigi in Uganda relies on surface
                          water as its drinking-water source. It has a full
                          treatment system. The water operator became
                          aware that individuals from the town were washing
                          their motorcycles in the water source, close to the
                          intake point.
                          The water operator, in cooperation with
                          local officials, developed a plan to address the
                          situation. They posted signs at the water source
                          prohibiting this behaviour.
                          The water operator worked with local officials
                          to inform town members of the risks to the
                          quality of the drinking-water associated with
                          this practice. Random spot checks during peak
                          “washing” times were conducted to prevent             Washing vehicles in Kireka, Uganda. Washing vehicles in streams
                          this behaviour and further educate individuals.       will affect consumers downstream.



> 30    Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan
Table 4.1. Example control measures organized by different components of a drinking-water supply




                                                                                                                                                          Task 1
Catchment/abstraction                      Treatment                                     Storage and distribution User installations

Establish drinking-water protection        Remove microbial contamination                Prevent human and                 Remove illegal
zones with land use restrictions           through reliable treatment (e.g. filtration   vermin contact with water,        connections.
(e.g. no or limited activities such        and disinfection), with adequate              particularly at service           Prevent cross-
as agriculture, horticulture, wildlife,    capacity.                                     reservoirs and tanks, through,    connections and
swimming, boating, industrial              Apply proven and reliable treatment           for example, good roofing         backflow into the
discharge).                                to bring chemical hazards of direct           of water storage, adequate        system.
Reduce use of herbicides, fertilizers      health concern (e.g. arsenic, fluoride)       security (e.g. fences, locks on
                                                                                         gates and hatches), insect-       Institutional and home
and chemicals within catchments,           and those with an impact on taste,                                              installations are carried
                                                                                         proof screens on vents and




                                                                                                                                                          Task 2
and only use those that are                odour and appearance of drinking-                                               out by recognized or
approved.                                  water (e.g. iron, manganese, turbidity        overflow pipes.
                                                                                                                           certified plumbers.
Train farmers on appropriate use of and alkalinity) within acceptable limits.            Ensure that inlet and outlet
                                                                                                                           Educate consumers
herbicides, fertilizers and chemicals      Note: if available, chemical removal          pipes are at varying heights
                                           processes should be certified for use by      on opposite ends of service       about proper hygiene
in agriculture and horticulture.                                                                                           and safe water storage
                                           a relevant national authority. Even then,     reservoir, and ensure good
Establish natural “buffer strips”          fine-tuning of treatment for chemical         mixing.                           practices (see figure on
around reservoirs, rivers and streams removal may require expert advice to                                                 page 35 for a description
to minimize erosion and runoff                                                           Regular cleaning, inspection      of good practice).
                                           ensure proper performance.                    and maintenance of storage
contamination.                                                                                                             Inform consumers on
                                           Maximize removal of organic material          tanks.
Prevent roaming of domestic animals prior to chlorine addition to limit                                                    point-of-use treatment
near the source water (e.g. fence).                                                      Flush washouts in tanks and       options where applicable
                                           disinfection by-product formation.




                                                                                                                                                          Task 3
                                                                                         pipelines regularly.              (e.g. boiling, filtration,
Switch to alternative water source(s) Consider prohibiting treatment
when something goes wrong                                                                Use only materials and pipes      chlorination).
                                           chemicals that result in taste and odour      approved for contact with
(e.g. occurrence of algal bloom            problems (but only if such actions do                                         Distribute educational
in reservoir) or when a natural                                                          drinking-water.                 materials about safe
                                           not compromise the microbial safety of
contaminant (e.g. fluoride) is difficult the water supply).                              Check and replace unsuitable rainwater collection
to remove).                                                                              materials (e.g. lead-jointed or practices (e.g. first-flush
                                           Ensure purity of chemicals added to           lead service pipes, bitumen-    systems, tank cleaning).
For spring catchments: Construct a         water, including checking expiry dates.
safe collection chamber and a proper                                                     lined mains).
overflow with elbow or tee.                Ensure proper storage and availability of     Aggressive water (low pH)
                                           chemicals (i.e. stocks do not run out).       may force use of other
For surface water abstraction: Install and




                                                                                                                                                          Task 4
maintain screens and sediment traps.       Chlorinate to ensure residual chlorine        construction materials and
                                           in the distribution network, including in     plumbing.
For all abstraction points (e.g. spring    the service reservoir.
boxes, wells, boreholes, streams):                                                       Maintain disinfectant residual
Prohibit latrines and fix leaky septic     Backwash filters at regular intervals to      throughout distribution
tanks in the vicinity of the abstraction   avoid excessive pressure and particle         system.
area. Regular cleaning, inspection and     breakthrough.                                 Maintain constant
maintenance.                               Prevent recycling of filter or backwash       positive pressure in the
For wells/boreholes: Slope the ground      water.                                        distribution system to
away from wellheads to prevent             Install duty and standby dosing pumps         minimize opportunities for
contamination by runoff.                   to prevent treatment disruption during        contaminant ingress.
                                           equipment failure.                            Repair leaks to minimize
                                                                                                                                                          Task 5

For rainwater catchment: Design with
proper filter, first-flush mechanism and   Shut off treatment plant and switch to        opportunities for
mosquito-safe tank.                        alternative water source or treatment         contaminant ingress.

In designed operational areas,             when something goes wrong.                    Prevent backflow into the
consider fire breaks, designated roads     Backup power supplies to maintain             system.
and tracks (to abstraction areas),         essential treatment functions during          Minimize dead ends in water
adequate drainage and waste facilities,    power outages.                                pipes.
containment and bounded areas (e.g.        Perform regular cleaning, inspection and Enforce plumbing codes,
for chemical storage).                     maintenance of treatment installations   standards and licensing.
Arrange for legal right to source use      and infrastructures.
and abstraction.                           Ensure that treatment plant operators
                                                                                                                                                          Task 6




Enforce local by-laws on hygiene,          are trained and meet established
sanitation and public health.              minimum competency standards.




                                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies                   31 <
                      4.2 Select control measures, and develop an incremental improvement plan to implement them
                      Based on the control measures identified in 4.1, an improvement plan should be developed. It is not
                      always feasible for a small community to address every possible significant risk and put in place all possible
                      control measures that have been identified at once. Limiting factors will include desirable time frames and
                      available resources. Therefore, control measures to be implemented in the short, medium and long term
                      should be identified. In developing this incremental improvement plan, the WSP team should consider:

                      zz   the level of risk associated with each hazard and hazardous event;
                      zz   control measures to address the risk (i.e. what and how);
                      zz   the person(s) responsible for carrying out the control measure (i.e. who);
                      zz   timelines for the control measure (i.e. when);
                      zz   financial resources needed (i.e. cost);
                      zz   training requirements for operating the control measure.

                      Some improvements or control measures will be ready for immediate implementation at little or no cost.
                      Others will need to be addressed over time and may require a substantial budget and additional external
                      resources. It is better not to try to do everything at once, but to use the WSP approach to make a plan
                      with feasible and realistic time frames (e.g. for three to five years), prioritizing improvements.

                      The WSP team should estimate the costs and labour time associated with each improvement to provide
                      information for decision-making. Economies that may be achieved from combining certain improvements
                      should also be estimated.

                      Available resources will need to be balanced against the risk assigned to the hazard and hazardous event.
                      The incremental improvement plan needs to be realistic and appropriate to the community’s limited
                      resources. There are often a number of ways to deal with multiple risks. The WSP team will need to
                      consider the various benefits and costs of all the options, as well as intermediate or temporary solutions
                      until resources become available for the preferred permanent solution.

                      Communities will need to decide how they will raise the funds needed for the implementation of the
                      improvements. The incremental improvement plan will be an excellent prospectus to attract government
                      and other interested local or external supporters to come forward and assist.

                      In some countries, funds can be raised as part of the regular district budgeting process. Often some
                      matching funds from the community need to be arranged. These can be raised through water rates, loans/
                      bonds or financial support from NGOs or wealthy community members. Although cash contributions
                      are important, the voluntary contributions in time, services (e.g. providing hot tea and snacks to all who
                      come to clean up the reservoir area or for the weekly pipeline checkup team) and kind should not be
                      discounted. Community action for maintenance of the water supply also offers great opportunities for
                      communication and information sharing and facilitates ownership of the WSP by the community.

                      An incremental approach allows for improvements to be made over time to achieve water quality targets
                      or objectives. The improvement plan should be documented and shared with all those responsible for the
                      improvement measures. A sample completed form is shown in Table 4.2.




> 32   Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan
Table 4.2. Example of an improvement plan




                                                                                                                                             Task 1
 Hazardous                             Plan                                                         Do
 events                 What             How                        Who                  When                          Cost
 Cattle and sheep       Exclude cattle   Repair fencing             Mr W to              Repairs to be carried         $175 in
 can access the         and sheep from around the                   arrange with         out February 2013             materials
 well and the           the abstraction catchment area              local council
 immediate area         area                                        work team
 around it, which
 could result in
 animal faecal
 matter entering




                                                                                                                                             Task 2
 the water supply
 Access to water        Eliminate    Repair leaking                 Mrs X to             Repairs to be carried $50 in
 storage tank           potential forcovers, implement              develop sanitary     out March 2013;       materials
 could result in        contaminationan annual                      inspection form      begin developing
 bird/animal waste      at water storage
                                     inspection                     and to carry         sanitary inspection
 entering treated       tanks        programme                      out inspections;     forms by March 2013,
 water                               (to include all                Mr Y to make         complete by August
                                     system tanks) and              repairs              2013; first annual
                                     develop a suitable                                  inspection in January
                                     sanitary inspection                                 2014
                                     form




                                                                                                                                             Task 3
 Contamination      Control          Develop and                    Mrs Z to             Begin developing              $30 in
 of treated water potential for      implement                      develop and          pamphlets August              materials
 in household       contamination at a consumer                     distribute           2013, complete by
 storage            the household    education                      pamphlets; Mr        December 2013
 containers due     level            programme (to                  Y to present at      Pamphlet distribution
 to poor hygiene                     include pamphlet               schools              and school
 (e.g. hand dipping                  distribution and                                    presentations to begin
 of cups)                            information                                         in January 2014
                                     sessions at primary
                                     and secondary
                                     schools)




                                                                                                                                             Task 4
Note that it is essential to monitor the identified control measures to ensure that they are operating as
required. How to do this is discussed further in Task 5.




                                                                                                                                             Task 5
                                                                                                                                             Task 6




As part of the improvement plan, the damaged wall on an existing    As part of the improvement plan, a water meter is being installed by
intake tank (right) is being repaired, and a supplementary intake   community members in Australia. Prior to the WSP, the community
tank is under construction (left) in Dhaji, Bhutan                  had no effective means to measure the amount of water they
                                                                    were using.




                                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies      33 <
                      Look at the pictures and reflect on how many hazards/hazardous events have been minimized
                      through improvements made throughout the water supply system. See the next page for
                      answers.




                      Spot the differences. Collecting water from a well.




> 34   Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan
                                                                                                                                               Task 1
   Figures on previous page: What improvements have been made to the water supply system to
   minimize risks?
   1. Covering the well has reduced the risk that bird faeces or other airborne contaminants will reach
        the water supply.
   2. Constructing a fence around the well has reduced the risk of contamination by direct animal
        access. (Note that wells should be fenced to prevent animal access within 30 metres.)
   3. Relocating the livestock pen has reduced the risk that surface runoff containing animal waste will
        reach the water supply during rain events.
   4. Limiting livestock grazing and planting trees uphill of the well have reduced the risk that surface
        runoff containing animal waste or crop additives/pesticides will reach the water supply.




                                                                                                                                               Task 2
   5. Relocating the latrine to ensure a minimum safe distance from the well has reduced the risk that
        the water supply will be contaminated by human waste.
   6. Placing the animal manure near the farm on a platform instead of directly on the ground has
        reduced the risk that the water supply will be contaminated by animal waste.
   7. Collecting and storing the water in closed containers instead of open containers has reduced the
        risk that the water will be contaminated during and after collection.




                                                                                                                                               Task 3
                                                                                                                                               Task 4
                                                                                                                                               Task 5




In a practical way, Moosa applies the multiple-barrier approach in this public health cartoon from the Maldives. Household water treatment
and safe storage can be an effective barrier if the safety of the water supply is uncertain.
                                                                                                                                               Task 6




                                                                                 Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies    35 <
                      Tips
                      »» Where the WSP team has insufficient information or knowledge, it may choose to seek external advice,
                         particularly for infrastructural improvements or upgrades. Water supply engineers or other experts can
                         help to ensure that improvements are appropriate and sustainable and provide costing information for
                         such improvements.
                      »» When external advice contradicts community-level knowledge, both should be considered. A community
                         that does not accept the opinion of an external expert may not be willing to follow advice. Community
                         members and experts may need to sit down together to share information and discuss the situation to
                         fully appreciate all perspectives.



                        Outputs:
                        zz Identified control measures to improve drinking-water safety
                        zz An incremental improvement plan, with prioritized control measures and activities
                        zz Decisions on when, where and who for each identified improvement




> 36   Task 4 Develop and implement an incremental improvement plan
Task 5 Monitor control measures
        and verify the effectiveness of
        the water safety plan

  The purpose of Task 5 is to confirm that the community water supply is operating as expected and that




                                                                                                                                Task 1
  the WSP is protecting drinking-water safety and public health.



     Operational monitoring: Planned, ongoing observations using checklists for
     visual on-site inspection and simple water quality measurements to assess whether a community
     water supply is operating normally—that is, whether the control measures to prevent, remove
     or reduce contaminants are operating effectively (as planned). Operational monitoring of
     control measures enables timely detection of operational and water quality problems so that
     action can be taken prior to the supply of unsafe drinking-water.




                                                                                                                                Task 2
     Verification monitoring: Verification monitoring confirms that water quality
     targets or objectives are being achieved and maintained and that the system as a whole is
     operating safely and the WSP is functioning effectively. It is typically based on compliance
     monitoring, internal and external auditing of the adequacy of the WSP and adherence to
     operational activities, and checking consumer satisfaction. In auditing, sanitary inspection formats
     are often a useful tool for confirming that measures put in place effectively control previously
     identified risks. The results of verification monitoring are typically included in district, regional or
     national water supply surveillance programmes.




                                                                                                                                Task 3
  How to do it
  5.1 Establish a monitoring programme
  While there are a number of differences between operational monitoring and verification monitoring,
  they are all simply checks to ensure that the water is safe and the WSP is working effectively. Monitoring
  programmes should aim to prevent problems and to correct faults in a timely manner. Monitoring should
  address both preventive (detecting risks so that action may be taken before problems occur) and remedial
  objectives (identifying problems so that corrective actions can be taken promptly).




                                                                                                                                Task 4
  Operational monitoring
  Quick and easy measurements and observations are best. Examples include observing features during on-
  site inspections (e.g. the integrity of a fence or wellhead, practices during water collection) and water quality
  testing for simple indicator parameters (e.g. chlorine residual, turbidity, conductivity). Specific operational
  monitoring parameters that are appropriate to the local water supply and the control measures being
  applied should be selected. Related to water quality testing, as a minimum, the following parameters that
  affect drinking-water quality should be monitored by the operator with support from an external agency if
  the operator does not have the capacity to monitor water quality: chlorine residual and pH (if chlorination
                                                                                                                                Task 5

  is practised) and turbidity. Operational monitoring is usually done by the person(s) responsible for the
  day-to-day operation of the community water supply.

  For each of the monitoring parameters, the operational limits—limits that will trigger corrective actions—
  need to be established. Corrective actions aim to bring the control measure back to operating properly—
  that is, within the set limits. For instance, if the fence around the abstraction area is to be checked
  weekly, as described in the management procedure, the operational limit is reached when the fence has
  been damaged. Clearly, that exceedance will initiate corrective action: repair. Similarly, when free chlorine
  residual at a tapstand falls below a predetermined limit (e.g. 0.2 mg/l), the chlorine dosing will need to be
  checked and adjusted. Monitoring and corrective actions form the control loop that ensures that unsafe
                                                                                                                                Task 6




  drinking-water is not supplied. Where possible, corrective actions should be specific and prepared and
  tested ahead of the event to ensure that they can be put in place quickly.

  An example of an operational monitoring programme is shown in Table 5.1.




                                                                   Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   37 <
       Table 5.1. Example of an operational monitoring programme
       Control         Monitoring                                            Operational Corrective action
       measure                                                               limit
       Wells are      What:      Sanitary integrity of the well and fence.   Integrity        What:   Repair fence and/or well.
       fenced to                                                             of fence                 Inform land/animal users/owners as
       prevent animal                                                        or well is               appropriate.
       access within                                                         compromised
       30 metres,     How:       Visual inspection by using inspection       per              How:    Contact community mechanic and/or
       and ground is             form XYZ. Completed form given to           information              plumber and request repair.
       sloped away               WSP team leader for storage and to          collected                Call for ad hoc community meeting.
       from wells.               review trends.                              from relevant
                      When:      Monthly.                                    inspection       When:   As soon as identified.
                                                                             form.
                       Where: On-site at well area.
                       Who:      Community caretaker.                                         Who:    Community caretaker with mechanic
                                                                                                      and/or plumber.
       Backup          What:     Operational reliability of generators.      Dysfunction of What:     Repair generator.
       generator       How:      Test runs.                                  generator.     How:      Contact community electrician and
       ensures                                                                                        request checking and repair.
       uninterrupted
       disinfection    When:     Quarterly.                                                   When:   As soon as identified.
       during power    Where: Powerhouse.
       outages.
                       Who:      Community technician.                                        Who:    Community technician with electrician.
       Chlorine        What:     Free chlorine concentration.                Free chlorine    What:   Take manual water sample and analyse
       dosing is                                                             concentration            to confirm online chlorine value.
       flow-paced                                                            is less than             If chlorine concentrations confirmed
       to ensure                                                             0.2 or greater           to be correct, follow chlorine non-
       consistent                                                            than 1.5 mg/l.           compliance procedure. Otherwise,
       dosing.                                                                                        check disinfection unit and online
                                                                                                      analyser for faults and adjust/repair
                                                                                                      accordingly.
                                                                                                      If repair of disinfection unit is not
                                                                                                      possible, use backup device.
                       How:      Online chlorine analyser.                                    How:    Water sampling, testing and analysis
                                                                                                      according to relevant standard operating
                                                                                                      procedures.
                                                                                                      Chlorine non-compliance procedure
                                                                                                      according to relevant standard operating
                                                                                                      procedure.
                                                                                                      Contact community technician and
                                                                                                      request checking and repair of
                                                                                                      disinfection unit and online analyser.
                                                                                                      Check and repair according to
                                                                                                      manufacturer’s manuals.
                       When:     Continuously.                                                When:   As soon as identified.
                       Where: Clear water tank outlet.
                       Who:      Community caretaker for maintenance                          Who:    Community caretaker with technician
                                 and calibration of analyser.                                         (for repair of online chlorine analyser)
                                                                                                      and local public health officer (for
                                                                                                      chlorine non-compliance procedure).
       Cover          What:      Integrity of covers and screens.            Integrity of     What:   Repair/replace cover and/or screen.
       on water       How:       Visual inspection by using inspection       covers or        How:    Contact community technician and
       storage tank              form ABC. Completed form given to           screens is               request repair.
       and vermin                WSP team leader for storage and to          compromised
       screening over            review trends.                              per
       vent piping.                                                          information
                      When:      Quarterly.                                  collected        When:   As soon as identified.
                       Where:    On-site at storage tank area.               from relevant
                                                                             inspection
                       Who:      Community caretaker.                        form.            Who:    Community caretaker with technician.

> 38       Task 5 Monitor control measures and verify the effectiveness of the water safety plan
                                                                                                                          Task 1
                                                         Examples of factors to be considered
  Any sudden change in                                   when establishing an operational
                                                         monitoring programme for control
  the local environment                                  measure X
  (e.g. due to heavy rainfall,                           Answering the following questions will
                                                         help the WSP team develop operational
  at the beginning of the                                monitoring programmes for control
  monsoon or during thaw),                               measures and associated schedules:
                                                         YY W hy monitor/perform inspection on X?
  in river flow or visible




                                                                                                                          Task 2
                                                         YY What does monitoring/inspection on X
  water quality (brown,                                      require?
                                                         YY How will X be monitored/inspected?
  cloudy, turbid water)                                  YY When and where will X be monitored/
                                                             inspected?
  should trigger increased                               YY Who will monitor/inspect X?
  vigilance, including on                                YY What is the acceptable range of values
                                                             for X? (Note that this can be a number
  operational monitoring.                                    or qualitative: yes/partial/no!)
                                                         YY What corrective actions will be taken




                                                                                                                          Task 3
                                                             when X is outside the target range?
                                                         YY Who will carry out corrective actions?
Verification monitoring                                  YY What records and reporting of X are
Verification involves three activities undertaken            required?
together to provide evidence that the WSP is             YY What training is needed for
working effectively:                                         implementation of the operational
                                                             monitoring programme for X (training
1. compliance monitoring;                                    for individuals responsible for sampling,
2. internal and external auditing;                           testing and analysis)?
3. checking consumer satisfaction.




                                                                                                                          Task 4
Compliance monitoring
Compliance monitoring is typically based on water quality testing for faecal indicator organisms and
hazardous chemicals. Typically, the results are checked against established national water quality
standards. Compliance monitoring is usually carried out by someone not involved in the day-to-day
operation of the water supply, such as a designated and appropriately trained community member or a
public health officer/inspector.

Internal and external auditing
Audits help maintain the quality of implementation of a WSP. Audits should involve external review
                                                                                                                          Task 5


by an independent qualified third party. The external review team may include government officials or
the regulatory authority or water quality experts from neighbouring larger utilities. The audit may also
involve internal review by people with responsibilities for the operation or oversight of the water supply.

Auditors may identify additional opportunities for improvement, such as areas where planned
improvements are impractical, procedures are not being properly followed, resources are insufficient or
training or motivational support is required for staff.

It is essential for the auditors to have detailed knowledge of the delivery of drinking-water and to verify
information in person through site visits, through interviews with community members responsible for
                                                                                                                          Task 6




operation of the water supply and by observing the procedures in place. Records may not always be
factually correct, and, in some cases, equipment that would appear to be working on paper may not be
working in practice.




                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   39 <
                          Examples of factors to be considered when establishing an audit programme
                          YY      Have all feasible hazards and hazardous events been taken into account?
                          YY      Have appropriate control measures been identified for each significant risk?
                          YY       Have appropriate monitoring procedures been established?
                          YY   Have operational limits for control measures been identified?
                          YY    Have corrective actions been identified for control measures that are not working effectively?
                          YY     Have a system and time frame for verification been put in place?


                       Checking consumer satisfaction
                       Consumer use of, and satisfaction with, the water
                       supply is an important indicator of whether the
                       water supply is operating effectively. Consumer
                                                                                    Any complaints about
                       complaints about taste, colour or odour should               taste, colour or odour
                       raise concern that the drinking-water may not
                       be safe. On the other hand, water that tastes or             should raise concern and
                       smells strange or does not look “clean” may not
                       be accepted by the community, even though it
                                                                                    be investigated.
                       is perfectly safe. This may lead consumers to use
                       other, less safe water.

                       5.2 Record and share results
                       All operational monitoring and verification data should be documented, filed and shared with relevant
                       stakeholders. There may be legal or other requirements to submit reports to public health or regulatory
                       officials. The WSP team should check to see who needs to receive this information. If there is no
                       mandatory reporting, the WSP team should consider who would benefit from receiving these reports.

                       5.3 Frequently assess results
                       Water quality monitoring and sanitary inspection data should be regularly reviewed to confirm that control
                       measures continue to work and allow for adjustments to stay within operational limits. For instance, the
                       output of a slow sand filter will decline over time when clogging of the filter increases. This information
                       tells the operator when he or she may have to take the filter out of operation for cleaning, at which time
                       the operator will simultaneously have to provide for extra water storage to tide consumers over the
                       cleaning break and inform them to use water sparingly for a few days. Monitoring and audit programmes
                       should aim to prevent problems and to correct faults in a timely manner.

                       Over time, this documentation will be helpful, as results are analysed, to explain historical performance and
                       occurrences and to show what risks occur with what frequency. This information will help to improve the
                       continued implementation of the WSP, especially to justify investments.




> 40   Task 5 Monitor control measures and verify the effectiveness of the water safety plan
                                                                                                                                         Task 1
Case-study: The New Zealand approach to health risk management in rural
water supplies
In rural areas of New Zealand, people
take water from small piped supplies or
from home-based systems such as wells
and rainwater harvesting. Many small
rural New Zealand communities and
homes may not always have access to safe
drinking-water. As a result, the Ministry
of Health of New Zealand has, in the




                                                                                                                                         Task 2
last decade, undertaken a programme
to support small communities to
ensure water safety. Various materials Cartoon information material for the New Zealand Public Health Risk
have been developed to promote the Management Plan
understanding of water safety, such that communities can work towards compliance with the
Drinking-water Standards for New Zealand by preparing, using and updating a Public Health Risk
Management Plan (PHRMP, the local name for a WSP). Checklists and information materials have
been prepared, including cartoons, from which a still picture is shown here (New Zealand Ministry
of Health, 2006).




                                                                                                                                         Task 3
An excerpt from the New Zealand Public Health Risk Management Kit (New Zealand Ministry of
Health, 2008) is shown below:

  Having your PHRMP approved
  Send your completed PHRMP to a Drinking-Water Assessor (DWA) at the local District Health
  Board for approval. Check you have included the following information in your PHRMP.


    Have you included?                                                                              Tick if included
    Organisation details, including owner, contact details and




                                                                                                                                         Task 4
    supply name?
    A flow chart and/or schematic and/or photos to describe
    your supply from catchment to distribution?
    An assessment from catchment to distribution that identifies
    what could cause the water to become unsafe to drink, what
    could be done about it and prioritises what needs attention?
    An improvement plan to manage what needs attention,
    giving priority to areas of greatest concern and things that can
                                                                                                                                         Task 5

    be easily fixed, including timeframes and estimated costs?
    A monitoring and inspection plan that indicates when the
    water is becoming unsafe?
    Emergency and incident plans that describe what action
    will be taken if things go wrong in the meantime?

  The Drinking Water Assessor will assess your PHRMP and return it to you with a report within
  20 working days. They may visit your supply periodically to see your progress in using your
  PHRMP.
                                                                                                                                         Task 6




  For further information please contact either your Drinking Water Assessor or Technical
  Assistance Programme (TAP) Facilitator at the local District Health Board, or your
  Environmental Health Officer at your local council.

Information on submitting a Public Health Risk Management Plan to the local district health board in New Zealand




                                                                            Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   41 <
                       Tips
                       »» Operational monitoring, compliance monitoring and auditing may be mandatory, such as when required
                          by regulations. In these cases, the responsible authorities are likely to give specific direction. Where
                          the community has insufficient resources and/or capacity to meet the regulatory requirements (or to
                          create operational monitoring programmes when there is no regulatory requirement), the WSP team
                          should engage appropriate authorities and experts to provide advice, guidance and assistance. These
                          stakeholders may additionally be able to provide or leverage free or subsidized water quality testing
                          services.
                       »» The WSP team must continually review the needs of the monitoring programme in light of newly
                          identified risks that may contaminate drinking-water supplies. For example, new risks could come from
                          industries, agricultural activities or human settlements established around the drinking-water source
                          that were not present or identified when the WSP or monitoring programme was originally designed.
                       »» Changes to monitoring results outside of normal ranges from regular inspections and/or monitoring
                          are an indication that risks may have changed. The WSP team may then need to review the situation,
                          modify the WSP and implement improvements.
                       »» Small supplies may find it helpful to partner with another community water supply or water utility to
                          audit each other’s WSPs, to help ensure that each WSP is comprehensive and effective.



                          Outputs:
                          zz Monitoring schedule to assess the continued effectiveness of existing control measures,
                             corrective actions and improvements at appropriate intervals
                          zz Evidence that the WSP is working effectively
                          zz Measurement of progress towards, or meeting, the water quality targets or objectives
                          zz Confirmation that interventions are appropriate for the risks identified




> 42   Task 5 Monitor control measures and verify the effectiveness of the water safety plan
Task 6 Document, review and improve
       all aspects of water safety plan
       implementation

  The purpose of Task 6 is to document the status and the level of operation and management of the




                                                                                                                                            Task 1
  water supply system and to ensure that the WSP approach is embedded in operations and that the WSP
  remains up to date and effective.

  How to do it
  6.1 Document management procedures
                                                                           Management procedures:
                                                                           Written instructions describing steps or
  Good information on the status of and procedures                         actions to be taken during normal operating
  for running the water supply is essential for effective                  conditions and for corrective actions when
  management and planning. The development of                              operational monitoring parameters reach or
  the WSP will have yielded a lot of information, for                      breach operational limits. These are often




                                                                                                                                            Task 2
  example, on the origin of the system, its design and                     called “standard operating procedures” or
  construction, or ownership details of land on which                      SOPs. Additionally, emergency management
  a reservoir or a hand pump was built. It is very                         procedures should be developed for any
  important to retain copies of the documentation                          unforeseen events or deviations that may
  and to know where the original files are to be found                     occur.
  (e.g. at the district water office or the land registry).

  All systems require instructions on how to operate. Management procedures (e.g. standard operating
  procedures) and manuals should be available for individual technical components of the system, such as
  for a hand pump or diesel generator. Some procedures also need to be tailor-made to reflect the actual




                                                                                                                                            Task 3
  situation. It is important to have relevant information available and properly stored.

  Documenting operating, maintenance and inspection procedures is important because it:

  zz helps build confidence that operators and backup support know what to do and when;
  zz supports consistent and effective performance of tasks;
  zz captures knowledge and experience that may otherwise be lost when community members have
     moved;
  zz helps reinforce the importance of the role of the community in the water supply system;




                                                                                                                                            Task 4
  zz helps in training and competency development of new community operators;
  zz forms a basis for continuous improvement.

                                                                        In addition to the technical information needed
                                                                        to run the system, management procedures
                                                                        should be developed outlining the tasks to be
                                                                        undertaken in managing all aspects of the water
                                                                        supply, including during emergency situations. The
                                                                        WSP is an important source of information for
                                                                        drafting these management procedures. The WSP
                                                                                                                                            Task 5

                                                                        team also needs to ensure that the different roles
                                                                        and responsibilities (i.e. who does what, when,
                                                                        where, how and why) for water safety are clearly
                                                                        understood by everyone involved. An efficient,
                                                                        regular review and updating cycle is important.

                                                                        Also, procedures for routine monitoring and
                                                                        inspection activities and their collected results (see
                                                                        Task 5) are obviously also important management
                                                                        information and need to be documented.
                                                                                                                                            Task 6




                                                                        As a minimum, the WSP team should document
  Diesel generator in Magala Adi village, Somali National Regional      management procedures for the items included in
  State, Ethiopia, with caretakers. The village enjoys borehole water
  from several tapstands at 20 Birr cents a bucket. The next nearest
                                                                        Table 6.1.
  water point is 9 kilometres away, on foot!




                                                                               Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   43 <
                       Table 6.1. Examples of management procedures to be documented for a community water supply
                       system
                         Catchment/abstraction                Treatment                      Storage and       User
                                                                                             distribution      installations
                        Land use zoning and management        Operation and                  Maintenance,      Public
                        plans.                                maintenance schedules and      cleaning and      information and
                                                              procedures for all aspects     inspection        education plans.
                        Procedures and forms to monitor/      of the treatment cycle of      schedules and
                        inspect activities in the catchment   the system (e.g. aeration,     procedures for    Procedures
                        area (e.g. agricultural practices,    filtration, chlorination).     storage tanks     for notifying
                        such as fertilizer application).      It may be useful to post       and pipelines.    customers (e.g.
                                                              these procedures on the                          boil water alert).
                        Maintenance, cleaning and             wall of the treatment plant  Procedures
                        inspection schedules and              for easy access.             for (factories     Procedures for
                        procedures for abstraction                                         filling) bottled   responding to
                        infrastructure.                      Operational monitoring        water and          and investigating
                                                             procedures to confirm the filling stations       consumer
                        Schedules and procedures to          effectiveness of treatment of tankers            complaints
                        monitor raw water quality.           processes (e.g. for turbidity conveying          about taste or
                        Procedures for notifying source      and chlorine levels).         drinking-water, if odour.
                        water users (including downstream                                  relevant.
                        users) during incidents or accidents Schedules and procedures to monitor drinking-water quality
                        in the catchment/source water(s). (compliance monitoring).

                       Additional information to be recorded, collected and stored for easy retrieval includes the following:

                       zz accurate and accessible system information (e.g. location of abstraction points and distribution
                          system, including tanks, valves, pumps, washouts, etc., construction materials used, age of
                          infrastructure);
                       zz operational roles and responsibilities;
                       zz contact details for operators and caretakers (with mobile phone numbers if available);
                       zz contact details for water equipment suppliers;
                       zz training programmes for operators, contractors and water committee members;
                       zz design standards for infrastructure;
                       zz relevant plumbing codes and standards and enforcement procedures;
                       zz compliance monitoring results; copies of results shared with public health and water supply
                          regulatory authority (as required by regulation);
                       zz audits, inspections and security check programmes;
                       zz programme for reviewing/revising documentation;
                       zz annual reports/financial statements;
                       zz documentation on periodic review and revision/amendment of the WSP.


                          Case-study: Recovering system information in Zanzibar town
                          Water shortage and poor water quality in Zanzibar town was caused by an aged and poorly
                          maintained water supply system, rapid urban expansion, limited natural supply sources and the
                          degradation of watersheds (DWD & Finnida, 1994). In 1993, when the Directorate for Water
                          Development of Zanzibar wanted to improve services in Zanzibar town, a big problem was that it
                          no longer knew where the pipelines and connections were, as these had been poorly recorded, if
                          at all. Rehiring retired linesmen and plumbers helped a great deal to recover the information on the
                          assets of the distribution system. This experience demonstrates the importance of documenting
                          system information and worker knowledge so that it is not lost over time.




> 44   Task 6 Document, review and improve all aspects of water safety plan implementation
It is important for the operating and maintenance procedures to be documented in the form of directions,




                                                                                                                              Task 1
based on an understanding of what actions are appropriate under different circumstances. People operating
the system must accept responsibility and clearly apply water safety principles and practices to ensure the
best protection for the community.

The WSP team should develop incident/emergency management procedures for unforeseen events to
help the community respond to possible risks to public health. There is a continuum of operations, from
normal to events, to incidents, to emergencies and, finally, to disasters. Providing safe water is critical, and
the water needs to be restored as soon as possible during any event or incident. If the safety of water is in
doubt under any circumstance, operators must notify consumers and either issue a drinking-water advisory
(if appropriate) or provide an alternative water supply. Many countries are developing or have emergency




                                                                                                                              Task 2
response plans in place that provide important recommendations, including on household water treatment
and safe storage. In addition to consulting these plans or getting in touch with the relevant authorities,
identifying best practices related to the use of household water treatment and safe storage during
emergency situations may be helpful in developing locally relevant safe water solutions during emergencies
(WHO/UNICEF, 2011).

Following any emergency, incident or near-miss, the community and operators should learn as much as
possible from the event to improve preparedness and to plan for future emergencies (see 6.3 for further
details). Reviewing the emergency management procedures may require some changes to the existing plan.




                                                                                                                              Task 3
     Examples of key areas to be included in emergency management procedures
     zz Response actions to potential public health risks, including, among others, increased monitoring
        and inspections, boil water advisories or restricted water use advisories
     zz Roles and responsibilities for all involved stakeholders, including contact details
     zz Plans for emergency water supplies
     zz Protocols and plans for communication, including community notices (within the community,
        public health professionals, regulatory body, media and the public), with special attention for
        proper notification of the public and high-risk groups
     zz Mechanisms for increased public health surveillance




                                                                                                                              Task 4
6.2 Participate in supporting activities
Supporting activities are important in ensuring water safety, even though they may not affect water quality
directly. They incorporate the principles of good management that underpin the WSP. Codes of good
operating, management and hygienic practices are essential elements in this respect. These are often standard
operating procedures or system operating rules.

Water suppliers or their associations will ordinarily have supporting activities in place as part of their normal
                                                                                                                              Task 5


operations. For most, the implementation of supporting activities will involve collating existing operational and
management practices, initial and periodic review and updating to continually improve practices, promoting
good practices to encourage their use and auditing practices to check that they are being used, including
taking corrective actions, where necessary.

Supporting programmes can include, but are not limited to:

zz training programmes for personnel involved in the water supply;
zz tools for managing the actions of staff, such as quality assurance systems;
zz education of community members whose activities may influence water quality;
                                                                                                                              Task 6




zz communication protocols to ensure that there is a clear and defined pathway for communicating
   information;
zz mechanisms for tracking consumer complaints and actions taken to respond to complaints;
zz calibration of monitoring equipment;
zz record keeping.



                                                                 Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   45 <
                       Where supporting activities do not exist, small community water supplies can make an effort to establish
                       and implement their own programme support activities, including training and educating appropriate staff
                       and community members, potentially by collaborating with government officials, local or regional NGOs,
                       associations of water user committees, local training institutions and other small communities. The WSP
                       team should contact these organizations for help and guidance in identifying suitable supporting activities.
                       Regardless of how sophisticated national and regional policies and programmes may be, experts from these
                       organizations should, at a minimum, be available and willing to provide assistance and guidance, even if only
                       on an advisory or ad hoc basis. Experts could include inspectors, public health professionals, water quality
                       experts and water resource specialists. Ideally, these experts would be able to bring to the team’s attention,
                       and help leverage, tools such as grant schemes and inspection forms.



                          Case-study: Government support in Bhutan
                          In Bhutan, the national WSP team
                          prepared WSP templates for the
                          Ministry of Health. These templates
                          were shared with the district-
                          level local government engineering
                          departments that, together with the
                          health sector, are responsible for
                          assisting communities to develop and
                          operate their water supply systems.
                          The templates serve as a starting
                          point for all village water supplies in
                          the districts.


                                                                     The government in Bhutan provides technical support for water supply to
                                                                     communities



                       6.3 Regularly review the WSP
                       Periodically, the team should meet to review the WSP and to learn from experiences and new procedures.
                       The WSP should also be reviewed whenever there are significant changes in or around the community water
                       supply, including recent land use changes. The review process is essential to overall implementation and
                       provides the basis from which future assessments can be made. Periodic reviews are particularly important
                       in small community water supplies where capacity is limited and where the objective is to make incremental
                       improvements over time to achieve national, state and community-based water quality targets or objectives.

                       To review the plan, the team should return to Task 1 (Engage the community and assemble a WSP team)
                       and work through it again. The team should then move through the other tasks again in order. As the team
                       is not starting from scratch, and assuming that the initial process was well documented, the tasks should be
                       easier and take less time to complete.




> 46   Task 6 Document, review and improve all aspects of water safety plan implementation
During the review, it may be helpful to:




                                                                                                                              Task 1
zz review and include any new activities
   or changes in the catchment area,
   abstraction, treatment, storage,
   distribution        and      consumer
   components of the water supply, as
   applicable. This includes reviewing and
   updating the water supply description
   and map/schematics as needed. New
   hazards and associated risks should




                                                                                                                              Task 2
   be incorporated, and previously
   identified risks should be updated with
   additional or new information. The
   original layout plan shown to the right,
   for example, will need to be updated
   to incorporate any new activities or
   changes that have occurred in the
   water supply since the WSP was first Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal, original layout plan used to develop the WSP
   developed.
zz review the improvement schedule. This will need to be updated as improvements are completed. New




                                                                                                                              Task 3
   information or resources may mean changing the order of priority for the improvements.
zz review the roles and responsibilities and standard operating procedures. Have the roles and responsibilities of
   management or staff changed since the last review? Have there been personnel changes since the last review?
   Have there been any changes in system operation, maintenance, inspection and monitoring processes and
   procedures?
zz review available water quality data and any completed sanitary inspection forms. Are control measures
   working as planned? Does the risk assessment need to be updated based on these results?

The WSP should additionally be reviewed following an emergency an incident, or a near-miss. During this




                                                                                                                              Task 4
review, the team should consider the following questions:

zz What was the cause of the problem?
zz How was the problem first identified or recognized?
zz What were the essential actions required, and were these carried out?
zz What communication problems arose, and how were they addressed?
zz What were the immediate and longer-term consequences?
zz How well did the emergency procedures function?
zz Have these hazardous events highlighted any weaknesses in the WSP, and how can the team (or the
   local government) prevent a recurrence of the problem causing the emergency?
                                                                                                                              Task 5

zz Has the WSP been updated to reflect the lessons learnt to avoid a similar problem in the future?
                                                                                                                              Task 6




                                                                 Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   47 <
                       Tips
                       »» Consider checking with local government, water supply associations and NGOs for continued training
                          opportunities for operators, plumbers, pump drivers and community-based maintenance workers, to
                          ensure upgrading of skills and timely replacement of staff.
                       »» Various forms of mass media can be used to raise the effectiveness of communication on the WSP in
                          all types of communities. Often posters with pictures and diagrams, discussions on the local radio and,
                          of course, public meetings are useful to brief consumers. The WSP team should consider how to use
                          information, education and communication formats and consumer relations in the most effective ways to
                          ensure good interaction between the community and the operators or water user committee.
                       »» Where a community has low literacy levels, pictures and diagrams can be used to communicate and
                          document management procedures to all involved in operating and managing the community water supply.
                       »» Following an emergency, an incident or a near-miss, risks should always be reassessed. The WSP team may
                          need to modify the incremental improvement plan.
                       »» The team may also want to review the process for developing and implementing the WSP. As mentioned
                          previously, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to WSPs; hence, each community may need to try its
                          approach and then review it to ensure that public health is being protected.
                       »» Following the review, the WSP team should ensure that all documentation and contact lists are up to date
                          and that all staff and operators are informed about the updated version. A new date for the next review
                          process should also be scheduled.


                          Outputs:
                          zz Well-established record-keeping and documentation system, with transparent communication
                             procedures
                          zz Management procedures for standard (normal) and emergency situations, shared with all
                             members of the WSP team and operators responsible for managing the community water
                             supply
                          zz List of supporting activities needed and available
                          zz Participation in or establishment of supporting activities
                          zz Documented WSP and a method to review the WSP periodically
                          zz Incremental improvements made over time to achieve national, state and community-based
                             water quality targets or objectives




> 48   Task 6 Document, review and improve all aspects of water safety plan implementation
Acknowledgements


The development of this manual involved contributions from a variety of experts and stakeholders, including
members of the International Small Community Water Supply Management Network. The manual was
reviewed by Network members throughout its development and was discussed at several Network meetings.
The assistance of all who contributed to the development of this manual is gratefully acknowledged.

The document was prepared by:

   Jennifer De France, WHO, Switzerland
   David Drury, England
   Bruce Gordon, WHO, Switzerland
   Paul Heaton, formerly Power and Water Corporation, Australia
   Han Heijnen, H&E Associates, Uganda
   Jennifer Mercer, Health Canada, Canada
   Oliver Schmoll, Federal Environment Agency, Germany
   Sinead Tuite, Health Canada, Canada

Jennifer De France, Bruce Gordon and Jennifer Mercer coordinated the development of this manual. Strategic
and technical direction was provided by Robert Bos (WHO) and Jamie Bartram (formerly WHO, currently
University of North Carolina).

An international group of experts provided material and participated in the development and review of the
manual. These included:

   Roger Aertgeerts, WHO European Center for Environment and Health, Germany
   María Estela Calderon, Peru
   John Cooper, Health Canada, Canada
   Christopher Cox, Caribbean Environmental Health Institute, St Lucia
   David Cunliffe, Department of Health, Australia
   Shinee Enkhtsetseg, WHO European Center for Environment and Health, Germany
   John Fawell, England
   Rick Gelting, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA
   Robyn Grey-Gardner, formerly Centre for Appropriate Technology, Australia
   María Gunnarsdóttir, Samorka, Iceland (currently at the University of Iceland)
   Tasleem Hasan, Pacific Islands Applied Geoscience Commission, Fiji (currently at Department of
        Environment and Resource Management, Australia)
   Aaron Kabirizi, Ministry of Water and Environment, Uganda
   Nam Raj Khatri, WHO Nepal, Nepal
   Jamie Lafontaine, Health Canada, Canada
   Laila Laraki, Office National de l’eau Potable, Morocco
   Shamsul Gafur Mahmud, International Training Network Centre, Bangladesh University of Engineering and
        Technology, Bangladesh (currently at WHO Bangladesh, Bangladesh)
   Liz Medlin, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA
   Maggie Montgomery, WHO, Switzerland
   Gerhard Offringa, formerly Water Research Commission, South Africa
   Marc Overmars, formerly Pacific Islands Applied Geoscience Commission, Fiji
   Dominique Poulin, Health Canada, Canada
   Donald Reid, Alberta Environment and Water, Canada
   Bettina Rickert, Federal Environment Agency, Germany
   Angella Rinehold, USA
   Colette Robertson-Kellie, Drinking Water Quality Regulator for Scotland, Scotland
   Margriet Samwell, Women in Europe for a Common Future, the Netherlands
   Bastian Schnabel, Federal Environment Agency, Germany
   Jaqueline Sims, formerly WHO, Switzerland
   Michael Taylor, formerly Ministry of Health, New Zealand
   Sarah Tibatemwa, National Water and Sewerage Corporation, Uganda (currently at IWA, Kenya)
   Ricardo Torres, WHO Pan American Centre for Sanitary Engineering and Environmental Sciences, Peru
        (currently at WHO Bolivia)
   Corinne Wallace, United Nations University, Canada
                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   49 <
       The following people helped to obtain permission to use the photographs in this manual:

          Laila Ali, WHO Maldives, Maldives
          Tanuja Ariyananda, Lanka Rain Water Harvesting Forum, Sri Lanka
          Mien Ling Chong, WHO Western Pacific Regional Office, Philippines
          Shinee Enkhtsetseg, WHO European Centre for Environment and Health, Germany
          David de Jager, Ministry of Health, New Zealand
          Han Heijnen, H&E Associates, Uganda
          Afsal Hussain, Ministry of Housing and Environment, Maldives
          Shaheeda Adam Ibrahim, Ministry of Housing and Environment, Maldives
          Steve Iddings, WHO South Pacific Office, Fiji (currently at WHO Cambodia, Cambodia)
          Kamal Khatri, WHO South Pacific Office, Fiji
          Jamie Lafontaine, Health Canada, Canada
          Mya Sapai Ngon, WHO Myanmar, Myanmar
          Payden, WHO South-East Asia Regional Office, India
          Wellakka Piyasena, formerly Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage, Sri Lanka
          Margriet Samwell, Women in Europe for a Common Future, the Netherlands
          Oliver Schmoll, Federal Environment Agency, Germany
          Fathimath Shafeeqa, Live & Learn Environmental Education, Maldives
          Ramesh Kumar Sharma, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board, Nepal
          Doris Susau, Live & Learn Environmental Education, Fiji
          Te Miha Ua-Cookson, Ministry of Health, New Zealand
          Maheswor Yadav, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board, Nepal

       The photographs and figures used in this manual are from the following sources:

          Cover: David Sutherland. Water safety plan team members examining protected area around storage
             tanks supplying piped water to Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal; storage tank in Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal; tapstand in
             Kavre, Nepal; community meeting to discuss the water safety plan in Kavre, Nepal, August 2009.
          Page 1: Han Heijnen. Village health team members discussing hepatitis E prevention through use of a safe water
             chain in Akwach sub-county, Uganda, 2009.
          Page 2: 1. Maria Campos; 2. Shinee Enkhtsetseg; 3. Safo Kalandarov. Examples of small community water supplies in
             1. Puno, Peru; 2. Dusheti district, Georgia; and 3. Qaraghoch, Tajikistan.
          Page 3: Colette Robertson-Kellie. Small community water supply in Scotland.
          Page 3: 1. Donald Reid; 2. Oliver Schmoll; 3. María Gunnarsdóttir. Examples of small community water supplies in
             1. Manitoba, Canada; 2. Ethiopia; and 3. Dalvik, Iceland.
          Page 4: David Sutherland. WSP team members learning how to measure conductivity in drinking-water in Talas,
             Kyrgyzstan.
          Page 5: RWSSFDB (2006). It is important to assess the water supply system together and collect the critical
             information needed to develop a WSP.
          Page 8: Bettina Rickert. Meeting with community members in Pendzhekent district, Tajikistan.
          Page 8: Han Heijnen. Corner meeting in Tharpu, Nepal.
          Page 9: Han Heijnen. Chairman, accountant and plumber of the Anbukhaireni WSP scheme committee in
             Tanhu district, Nepal, in front of the scheme map including 600 household connections, made as part of the
             development of a WSP.
          Page 12: Han Heijnen. Mapping the community water points in a community in northern Nigeria.
          Page 13: Redrawn from Live & Learn Environmental Education (2008). Water supply system in Mele, Efate,
             Vanuatu.
          Page 15: Han Heijnen. Discussing the results of community mapping of water points in Baganbari slum, Dhaka,
             Bangladesh.




> 50
   Page 17: Han Heijnen. Recent road construction exposed a section of buried mains high-density polyethylene
      pipeline for a water supply system in Nepal.
   Page 19: Bettina Rickert. An unprotected public water collection point in Fayzabad district, Tajikistan.
   Page 21: Based on WHO (1997). Example of a sanitary inspection form and risk score for rainwater collection and
      storage.
   Page 22: Sinead Tuite. In the Northern Karamoja region in Uganda, this hand pump enclosure is opened in the
      morning and in the afternoon by an elder who also supervises the collection of the water.
   Page 27: Fraser Thomas Ltd & Lanka Rain Water Harvesting Forum (2006). The shallow well is quite close to the
      toilet, raising the risk of contamination.
   Page 27: Fraser Thomas Ltd & Lanka Rain Water Harvesting Forum (2006). Runoff of pesticide, fertilizer or
      manure may be a risk in many rural areas.
   Page 27: Colette Robertson-Kellie. Unprotected well in Scotland that has since been improved!
   Page 27: Bettina Rickert. Protected well in the Federal State of Schleswig-Holstein in Germany.
   Page 30: Han Heijnen. Washing vehicles in Kireka, Uganda.
   Page 33: Angella Rinehold. As part of the improvement plan, the damaged wall on an existing intake tank is being
      repaired, and a supplementary intake tank is under construction in Dhaji, Bhutan.
   Page 33: Robyn Grey-Gardner. As part of the improvement plan, a water meter is being installed by community
      members in Australia.
   Page 34: Möller & Samwell (2009). Spot the differences.
   Page 35: Live & Learn Environmental Education (2006). In a practical way, Moosa applies the multiple-barrier
      approach in this public health cartoon from the Maldives.
   Page 41: New Zealand Ministry of Health (2006). Cartoon information material for the New Zealand Public
      Health Risk Management Plan.
   Page 41: New Zealand Ministry of Health (2008). Information on submitting a Public Health Risk Management
      Plan to the local district health board in New Zealand.
   Page 43: Han Heijnen. Diesel generator in Magala Adi village, Somali National Regional State, Ethiopia, with
      caretakers.
   Page 46: WHO Regional Office for South-East Asia/WHO Regional Office for the Western Pacific. The
      government in Bhutan provides technical support for water supply to communities.
   Page 47: Han Heijnen. Shisuwa Badahare, Nepal, original layout plan used to develop the WSP.

Marla Sheffer (Canada) was responsible for editing this document, and Lesley Robinson and Penny Ward provided
administrative support throughout the development process.

WHO gratefully acknowledges the primary financial and technical support provided by Health Canada, the Australian
Agency for International Development and the Drinking Water Inspectorate, United Kingdom. WHO is also thankful
for the additional support provided by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Japan; the Environmental Protection
Agency, USA; NSF International, USA; and the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, Singapore.




                                                              Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies   51 <
       References and recommended
       further reading 1

       References cited in text
       Bartram J et al. (2009). Water safety plan manual: step-by-step risk management for drinking-water suppliers. Geneva, World Health
            Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publication_9789241562638/en/index.html).
       Craun M (2006). Waterborne outbreaks reported in the United States. Journal of Water and Health, 4(Suppl. 2):19–30.
       DWD, Finnida (1994). Zanzibar Urban Water Supply Project, Implementation Phase 1, 1991–1994. Unpublished internal document,
         Zanzibar Department of Water Development and Finnish International Development Agency.
       Fraser Thomas Ltd, The Lanka Rain Water Harvesting Forum (2006). Community rainwater harvesting guidelines. Sri Lanka, Ministry
            of Urban Development and Water Supply, March.
       Government of Nepal (2009). Final report: Piloting WSP in ten projects in center and western region. Nepal, Department of Water
          Supply and Sewerage.
       Helmer R, Hespanhol I, eds (1997). Water pollution control—a guide to the use of water quality management principles. London, E &
           FN Spon. Published on behalf of the United Nations Environment Programme, Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative
           Council and World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/resourcesquality/wpcbegin.pdf).
       Hulsmann A (2005). Small systems large problems: A European inventory of small water systems and associated problems. Web-
           based European Knowledge Network on Water (WEKNOW) (http://www.nccph.ca/docs/05_small_water_systems_ver_
           june2005.pdf).
       Live & Learn Environmental Education (2006). Community water: a community-based water monitoring toolkit using the H2S paper
            strip test. Prepared for the Ministry of Environment, Energy & Water with assistance from the Asian Development Bank –
            Male’, Maldives, November (http://livelearn.org/sites/default/files/docs/Toolkit_Water.pdf).
       Live & Learn Environmental Education (2008). Water safety. Making and keeping our drinking water safe. A teacher’s toolkit.
            Prepared for the World Health Organization and South Pacific Applied Geosciences Commission. Port Vila, Vanuatu, Live
            & Learn Environmental Education, December (http://livelearn.org/sites/default/files/docs/WaterSafetyToolkit.pdf).
       Möller D, Samwell M (2009). Developing water safety plans involving schools. Introducing “water safety plans” for small-scale water
           supply systems. Manual for teachers and pupils. Revised version. The Netherlands / France / Germany, Women in Europe for
           a Common Future (WECF) (http://www.wecf.eu/english/publications/2008/wspmanuals-revised.php).
       New Zealand Ministry of Health (2006). Making it safe! Principles and methods of treatment for small drinking water supplies. DVD
          available from the New Zealand Ministry of Health.
       New Zealand Ministry of Health (2008). Small drinking-water supplies. Public health risk management kit. Wellington, New Zealand
          Ministry of Health, February (http://www.health.govt.nz/publication/small-drinking-water-supplies).
       RWSSFDB (2006). Community action plan guidebook. Kathmandu, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
          (in Nepali).
       Schmoll O et al., eds (2006). Protecting groundwater for health: managing the quality of drinking-water sources. London, IWA
           Publishing, on behalf of the World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publications/
           protecting_groundwater/en/).
       WHO (1997). Guidelines for drinking-water quality, 2nd ed. Volume 3. Surveillance and control of community supplies. Geneva,
         World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/gdwqvol32ed.pdf).
       WHO (2011a). Guidelines for drinking-water quality, 4th ed. Geneva, World Health Organization (http://whqlibdoc.who.int/
         publications/2011/9789241548151_eng.pdf).
       WHO (2011b). Cause-specific mortality: regional estimates for 2008. Geneva, World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/
         healthinfo/global_burden_disease/estimates_regional/en/index.html).
       WHO/UNICEF (2011). National household water treatment and safe storage strategies and integrated household environmental
         health interventions: report of a workshop for selected countries in East Africa, Entebbe, Uganda, 27–29 June 2011. Geneva,
         World Health Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund (http://www.who.int/household_water/resources/
         EntebbeReportJune2011V2.pdf).




       1
           The web links given in this section were current as of December 2011.

> 52
Recommended reading
Davison A et al. (2005). Water safety plans. Managing drinking-water quality from catchment to consumer. Geneva, World Health
    Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/wsp170805.pdf).
Kagaya S, Reed B (2011). Technical notes on drinking-water, sanitation and hygiene in emergencies: emergency treatment of drinking-
    water at the point of use. Prepared for the World Health Organization by Water, Engineering and Development Centre,
    Loughborough University, Leicestershire. Geneva, World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_
    health/publications/2011/tn5_treatment_water_en.pdf).
Mudaliar MM, Bergin C, MacLeod K (2008). Drinking-water safety planning: a practical guide for Pacific Island countries. Suva, Fiji,
   World Health Organization and Pacific Islands Applied Geoscience Commission (http://www.pacificwater.org/userfiles/
   file/water%20publication/Pacific%20Drinking%20Water%20Safety%20Planning%20Guidelines%20WHO%20SOPAC.pdf;
   WHO/SOPAC Joint Contribution Report 193).
New Zealand Ministry of Health (2005). Small drinking-water supplies: preparing a public health risk management plan. Wellington,
   New Zealand Ministry of Health (http://www.health.govt.nz/publication/small-drinking-water-supplies).
Samwel M, Jorritsma F, Radu O (2010). Case study. Lessons from water safety plans for small-scale water supply systems as developed
   by schools in Romania. The Netherlands / France / Germany, Women in Europe for a Common Future (http://www.wecf.
   eu/download/2010/03/wsp_romania.pdf).
Thompson T et al. (2007). Chemical safety of drinking-water: assessing priorities for risk management. Geneva, World Health
   Organization (http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2007/9789241546768_eng.pdf).
WHO/UNECE (2011). Small-scale water supplies in the pan-European region. Prepared by the German Federal Environment
  Agency WHO Collaborating Centre for Research on Drinking Water Hygiene (Bad Elster, Germany) in cooperation
  with the World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
  Copenhagen, WHO Regional Office for Europe (http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0018/140355/e94968.
  pdf).


Suggested web sites
Household water treatment and safe storage (World Health Organization): http://www.who.int/household_water/en/
Model water safety plans for various water supply types (International Training Network Centre, Bangladesh University of
   Engineering and Technology): http://www.buet.ac.bd/itn/pages/outcomes/wsp.html
Risk assessment templates and other WSP-related resources for private water supplies (Government of the United Kingdom):
     http://www.privatewatersupplies.gov.uk/private_water/22.html
Small community water supply management (World Health Organization): http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/
    smallcommunity/en/index.html
World Health Organization/International Water Association Water Safety Portal (includes case-studies, tools and other
   information on water safety plans: http://www.wsportal.org




                                                                   Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies            53 <
       Glossary


       Audit: Audits help in the implementation of a water safety plan by ensuring that water quality and risks are being
       controlled effectively. Audits should involve external review by an independent qualified third party and may also involve
       internal review by people with responsibilities for operating or overseeing the water supply. Auditing can have both an
       assessment and compliance-checking role and should be undertaken regularly.

       Catchment: The catchment, or drainage basin, is a discrete area of land that has a common drainage system. A
       catchment includes both the water bodies that convey the water and the land surface from which water drains into
       these bodies.

       Community water supply: The system(s) used by the community to collect, treat, store and distribute drinking-
       water from source to consumer. The definition of a small community water supply can vary widely within and between
       countries. However, it is the operating and management challenges they face that most commonly set small community
       water supplies apart.

       Control measures (also referred to as barriers or mitigation measures): Activities and processes that can be used to
       prevent, eliminate or significantly reduce the occurrence of a water safety hazard.

       Corrective action: Any action to be taken when the results of monitoring at a control point indicate a loss of control
       (e.g. when operational limits are exceeded).

       Flow diagram: A systematic representation of the sequence of steps or operations used in the production or
       manufacture of a particular water item.

       Hazard: A biological, chemical, physical or radiological agent that can cause harm to public health.

       Hazardous event: An incident or situation that introduces or amplifies a hazard to, or fails to remove a hazard from,
       the water supply.

       Management procedures: Written instructions describing steps or actions to be taken during normal operating
       conditions, for corrective actions when operational monitoring parameters reach or breach operational limits and for
       unforeseen, emergency events or deviations that may occur.

       Mapping: The process of gathering information about a community water supply by having its members create their
       own map. Community members can draw the map on a sheet of paper; specialized equipment and/or skills are not
       necessary. However, maps should be sufficiently detailed to easily identify hazards and risks to the water supply.

       Multiple-barrier approach: The concept of using more than one type of barrier or control measure in a water
       supply system (from catchment to abstraction, treatment, storage, distribution and the consumer) to minimize risks to
       the safety of the water supply.

       Operational limit: Defined limit set for operational acceptability of control measures.

       Operational monitoring: Planned, ongoing observations using checklists for visual on-site inspection and simple
       water quality measurements to assess whether a community water supply is operating normally—that is, whether the
       control measures to prevent, remove or reduce contaminants are operating effectively (as planned).

       Participatory rural appraisal: A rapid and inexpensive assessment of the most important features of the living
       conditions of an urban or rural population. The assessment is done primarily by an interdisciplinary team (including at
       least one sociologist) and takes place in the field. Participatory rural appraisal is designed as an ongoing learning process
       for both local and external participants.

       Pocket chart: A very effective method to collect information about people’s perceptions, habits, desires and will. It
       provides quantitatively valid information by a system of voting and further enables discussions with community members.

       Risk: The likelihood of a hazard causing harm to exposed populations in a specific time frame and the magnitude and/
       or consequences of that harm.




> 54
Sanitary inspection: An on-site inspection and evaluation by qualified individuals of all conditions, devices and
practices in the water supply system that pose an actual or potential danger to the health and well-being of the consumer.
It is a fact-finding activity that should identify system deficiencies—not only sources of actual contamination, but also
inadequacies and lack of integrity in the system that could lead to contamination.

Transect walks: Systematic walks with key informants through the area of interest, while observing, asking, listening
and seeking out problems and solutions. There are different types of transects—walking across an area, looping, walking
from one water point to another and so on. Walking through a community leads to an understanding of the power
divisions, environmental sanitation and construction quality, among other issues. Transect walks are frequently used in
water and sanitation programmes.

Verification monitoring: Verification monitoring confirms that water quality targets or objectives are being achieved
and maintained and that the system as a whole is operating safely and the water safety plan is functioning effectively. It
is typically based on compliance monitoring, internal and external auditing of the adequacy of the water safety plan and
adherence to operational activities, and checking consumer satisfaction.

Water safety plan (WSP): A comprehensive risk assessment and risk management approach that encompasses all
steps in the water supply, from catchment to consumer.




                                                             Water Safety Planning for Small Community Water Supplies        55 <
       ISBN 978 92 4 154842 7




> 58
