couv_ARP   16.3.2007   7:30   Page 1




                               Concern for chemical contamination of drinking water is
                               increasing in both developing and developed countries world-
                               wide; however, too often, effective risk management is ham-
                               pered by a lack of basic information. Simple, practical tools are
                               needed by those responsible for developing effective policies
                               and making practical decisions in relation to water quality, to
                               deal with the increasing use of chemicals in industry, agricul-
                               ture, homes and water supply systems themselves.

                               In this book, an international group of experts has brought together
                               for the first time a simple, rapid assessment methodology to assist
                               in identifying real priorities from the sometimes bewildering list of
                               chemicals of potential concern. Simply applied, at national or local
                               levels, the approach allows users to identify those chemicals that
                               are likely to be of particular concern for public health in particular
                               settings. The methodology has been tested in the real world in a
                               series of applications in seven countries; in any given setting, it
                               led rapidly to the identification of a short list of priorities.




                                                                                                        Assessing priorities for risk management
                                                                                                        Chemical safety of drinking-water:
                               This text will be invaluable to public health authorities, those
                               responsible for setting drinking water standards and regula-                                                        Chemical safety
                               tions, drinking water supply surveillance agencies and water
                               suppliers. The approaches described are universally applicable
                               and will be of particular value in settings where information on
                                                                                                                                                   of drinking-water:
                               actual chemical quality of drinking water is limited.                                                               Assessing priorities
                               This document is part of the WHO response to the challenge of
                               emerging chemical hazards in drinking-water. The now well-
                                                                                                                                                   for risk management
                               documented recognition of arsenic as a problem chemical in
                               drinking water in South Asia is the best known of these emerg-
                               ing hazards, but is accompanied by other known and yet-to-be-
                               recognised hazards. Applying the methodology described will
                               help in using limited resources to best effect, responding to
                               known concerns and identifying under-appreciated future issues.
couv_ARP   25.9.2007   15:35   Page 2
Chemical safety
of drinking-water:
Assessing priorities
for risk management

Terrence Thompson
John Fawell
Shoichi Kunikane
Darryl Jackson
Stephen Appleyard
Philip Callan
Jamie Bartram
Philip Kingston
WHOLibrary
WHO LibraryCataloguing-in-Publication
            Cataloguing-in-Publication  Data
                                      Data

Chemical safety
Chemical safety of
                of drinking-water:
                   drinking water assessing
                                   : assessingpriorities
                                               prioritiesforforrisk
                                                                  risk management.
                                                                     management.

    Authors: Terrence Thompson … [et al.].
1.Potable water – chemistry 2.Water pollution, Chemical. 3.Water pollutants, Chemical
4.Risk assessment – methods 5.Risk management – methods I. World Health Organization.
   1.Potable water – chemistry. 2.Water pollution, Chemical. 3.Water pollutants,
   Chemical. 4.Risk assessment – methods. 5.Risk management – methods.
ISBN  92 4 154676
   I.Thompson,     X
               Terrence.(NLM  Classification:
                         II.World             WA 689)
                                  Health Organization.
ISBN 978 92 4 154676 8
    ISBN 92 4 154676 X                                      (NLM Classification: WA 689)
    ISBN 978 92 4 154676 8
© World Health Organization 2007
All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from WHO Press,
World Health Organization
20 Avenue Appia                          © World Health Organization 2007
1211 Geneva 27
SwitzerlandAll rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from WHO
(T +41 22    791 3264;
           Press,          F +41 Organization,
                   World Health   22 791 4857;20EAvenue
                                                    bookorders@who.int).
                                                             Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41
Requests22  for791
                permission  to reproduce
                    3264; fax: +41 22 791or4857;
                                            translate WHO
                                                  e-mail:     publications – whether
                                                           bookorders@who.int).       for salefor
                                                                                   Requests    or permission
                                                                                                  for noncommercial
                                                                                                             to
distribution  –  should be addressed  to WHO   Press, at  the
           reproduce or translate WHO publications – whether  aboveforaddress
                                                                       sale or for noncommercial distribution –
(F +41 22    791   4806;   E permissions@who.int).
           should be addressed to WHO Press, at the above address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; e-mail:
          permissions@who.int).
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression
of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country,
            The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply
territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines
            the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization
on maps represent      approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.
          concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or
         concerning
The mention          thecompanies
            of specific  delimitation
                                    or of
                                       of its frontiers
                                          certain       or boundaries.
                                                   manufacturers’       Dotted
                                                                  products   doeslines
                                                                                    noton maps
                                                                                        imply thatrepresent
                                                                                                   they are endorsed or
         approximate
recommended            border
              by the World    linesOrganization
                           Health   for which there    may not yet
                                                   in preference to be full agreement.
                                                                    others  of a similar nature that are not mentioned.
Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.
          The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that
          they are
All reasonable      endorsedhave
                precautions   or recommended
                                   been taken by by
                                                  thethe World
                                                      World       Health
                                                              Health      Organization
                                                                       Organization     in preference
                                                                                    to verify           to others
                                                                                              the information contained
          of a similarHowever,
in this publication.   nature that
                                theare not mentioned.
                                    published   materialErrors   anddistributed
                                                          is being    omissions without
                                                                                 excepted,    the names
                                                                                          warranty        of kind, either
                                                                                                     of any
expressedproprietary
            or implied.products  are distinguished
                        The responsibility          by initial capital
                                           for the interpretation  andletters.
                                                                        use of the material lies with the reader. In no
event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use.
          All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the
          information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed
          without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the
          interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health
          Organization be liable for damages arising from its use.

          The named authors alone are responsible for the views expressed in this publication.




Cover photo:
Corbis Cover photo:
          Corbis
Graphic Design and inside photos:
        Graphic Design
Benoît Deschamps        and inside photos:
                  (Lausanne/CH)
          Benoît Deschamps (Lausanne/CH)
Printed in Geneva, Switzerland
          Printed in Geneva, Switzerland
      Contents
vii   Foreword
ix    Acknowledgements
xi    Abbreviations and acronyms

15    Part A – Assessing and managing priorities
01    1       Introduction
03    1|1          The need for guidance on assessing priorities for risk management
03    1| 2         Objective
04    1| 3         Background
04    1| 4         Administrative and policy context
06    1| 5         How to use this publication
08    1| 6         References
11    2       General principles and basis for prioritizing chemicals
13    2|1          Principles for assigning priorities for risk management
14    2|2          Setting priorities with limited information
15    2|3          Factors affecting chemical concentrations along pathways
15    2|3|1                 Mixing and dilution
15    2|3|2                 Volatilization
15    2|3|3                 Adsorption
15    2|3|4                 Chemical environment
16    2|3|5                 Biological degradation
16    2|3|6                 Groundwater vulnerability
16    2|4          Frequent priorities for risk management
16    2|4|1                 Fluoride, arsenic and selenium
16    2|4|2                 Nitrate
17    2|4|3                 Iron and manganese
17    2|4|4                 Lead
17    2|5          References
19    3       Developing and implementing risk management strategies
21    3|1          Identifying priority chemicals in a drinking-water supply
22    3|2          Drinking-water standards and guidelines
22    3|3          Overview of management procedures
23    3|3|1                 Health-based targets
25    3|3|2                 System assessment
25    3|3|3                 Operational monitoring
26    3|3|4                 Management procedures
26    3|3|5                 Surveillance
26    3|4          References

29    Part B – Identifying specific chemicals
31    4       Naturally occurring chemicals
33    4|1         General
33   4|1|1                Approach to dealing with naturally occurring chemicals
33   4|1|2                Aesthetic effects
34   4|1|3                Common health hazards
34   4|2         Environmental factors affecting inorganic constituents in water
34   4|3         Data sources
35   4|4         Indicator parameters and simple tests
35   4|5         Guidance on identifying relevant chemicals
38   4|5|1                Catchment information
38   4|5|2                Acidity
38   4|5|3                Algal toxins
39   4|6         References
41   5       Chemicals from agricultural activities
43   5|1         Introduction
43   5|2         Data sources
44   5|3         Use of human excrement, animal manure, inorganic fertilizer and biosolids
44   5|3|1                Human excrement and animal manure
44   5|3|2                Chemical fertilizers
44   5|3|3                Biosolids
45   5|3|4                Nitrate levels
46   5|4         Intensive animal practices
47   5|5         Use of pesticides
47   5|5|1                Pathways of contamination
48   5|6         Irrigation and drainage
49   5|7         References
51   6       Chemicals from human settlements
53   6|1         Introduction
55   6|2         Data sources
55   6|3         Sewage systems and on-site sanitation
56   6|4         Waste disposal
57   6|5         Urban runoff
57   6|5|1                General considerations
57   6|5|2                Pathways of contamination by urban runoff
58   6|6         Fuel storage sites
59   6|7         Chlorinated solvents
59   6|8         Public health and vector control
59   6|9         References
61   7       Chemicals from industrial activities
63   7|1         Introduction
63   7|2         Data sources
64   7|3         Extractive industries
64   7|3|1                Extractive industry activities
65   7|3|2                Effects of mining on water quality
66   7|3|3                Risk factor checklist
                                                                                                    v




67    7|4             Manufacturing and processing industries
67    7|4|1                   Initial indicators
67    7|4|2                   Developing an inventory
68    7|4|3                   Assessing the impact
68    7|4|4                   Site inspection
69    7|4|5                   Risk factor checklist
69    7|4|6                   Pathway considerations
70    7|5             Reference
73    8           Chemicals from water treatment and distribution
75    8|1             Introduction
75    8|2             Chemicals used in treatment
75    8|2|1                   Disinfectants and disinfection by-products
76    8|2|2                   Coagulants
77    8|3             Other chemicals and materials used in water treatment
77    8|4             Distribution systems
78    8|5             References

 81   Part C – Appendices
 83   Appendix 1       Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO
                       Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
107   Appendix 2       Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources
115   Appendix 3       Association of pesticides with crops and crop types
123   Appendix 4       Practical comments on selected parameters

      Tables
06    Table 1.1        Categorization of sources of chemicals in drinking-water
24    Table 3.1        Health-based targets for application to microbial and chemical constituents
                       of drinking-water
36    Table 4.1        Environmental factors affecting the distribution of naturally occurring toxic
                       chemicals in water and soil
54    Table 6.1        Chemicals derived from human settlements
65    Table 7.1        Chemical contaminants of extractive industry wastewaters
79    Table 8.1        Suggested risk management strategies for chemicals from water production
                       and distribution
 86   Table A1.1       Chemicals considered for health-based guideline values
102   Table A1.2       Chemicals that may give rise to consumer complaints
110   Table A2.1       Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources
119   Table A3.1       Association of insecticides and herbicides with crops and crop types
                                                                                                   vii




  Foreword
  Contamination of drinking-water is a significant concern for public health throughout the world.
           Microbial hazards make the largest contribution to waterborne disease in developed
  and developing countries. Nevertheless, chemicals in water supplies can cause serious health
  problems – whether the chemicals are naturally occurring or derive from sources of pollution.
  At a global scale, fluoride and arsenic are the most significant chemicals, each affecting per-
  haps millions of people. However, many other chemicals can be important contaminants of
  drinking-water under specific local conditions.
           Often, identification and assessment of risks to health from drinking-water relies
  excessively on analysis of water samples. The limitations of this approach are well recognized,
  and contributed to the delay in recognizing arsenic in drinking-water as a significant health
  concern in Bangladesh and elsewhere. To overcome such limitations, the latest edition of the
  World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO,
  2006) emphasizes effective preventive management through a “framework for drinking-
  water safety” that incorporates “water safety plans”.
           Effective preventive management of chemicals in drinking-water requires simple tools
  for distinguishing the few chemicals of potential local or national concern from the unman-
  ageably long list of chemicals of possible significance. The aim is to identify and prioritize the
  chemicals of concern, to overcome the limitations of direct analysis of water quality, and
  ensure that limited resources are allocated towards the monitoring, assessment and control
  of the chemicals that pose the greatest health risks.
           Identifying and prioritizing chemical risks presents a challenge, especially in develop-
  ing countries, because information on the presence of chemicals in water supplies is often
  lacking. This document provides guidance to help readers to meet that challenge. It shows
  how information on aspects such as geology and industrial and agricultural development,
  which is often readily available, can be used to identify potential chemical contaminants (and
  potential sources of chemicals), from catchment to consumer, and thus prioritize risks.
           As a supporting document to the Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004;
  WHO, 2006), this publication is aimed at policy-makers, regulators, managers and public
  health practitioners at national and local level. It is divided into three parts:

≥ Part A provides general guidance on using limited information in prioritizing chemicals in
  drinking-water for risk management. The need for such guidance is outlined in Chapter 1,
  which also describes the administrative and policy context. Chapter 2 describes the principles
  applied in prioritizing chemicals, provides information on some factors that affect chemical
  concentrations along pathways, and highlights several specific chemicals that are frequently
  considered priorities because of their widespread occurrence or significant health effects.
  Chapter 3 discusses the role of drinking-water standards and guidelines, and provides an
  overview of contemporary water quality management procedures.
viii




≥ Part B provides practical guidance on identifying specific chemicals that are likely to be of
  concern in individual water supply systems. It groups chemical contaminants into five cate-
  gories on the basis of their potential sources: naturally occurring, from agriculture activities,
  from human settlements, from industrial activities, and from water treatment and distribution
  processes themselves.

≥ Part C comprises the appendices. It includes guidance on the most likely sources of potential
  contaminants and on identifying chemicals that could be of concern in particular circum-
  stances. The appendices address potential sources of chemicals considered in the WHO
  drinking-water guidelines (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006), chemicals potentially discharged in
  effluents from industrial sources, and the association of pesticides with crops and crop types.
  This information is presented in an accessible format that will help users to determine the
  chemical hazards that can arise in the catchment, in treatment and in distribution, in large,
  medium and small water supplies.

            Many experts worldwide contributed to this work over a period of several years, begin-
   ning with the 1st Meeting of Experts on Monitoring Chemicals in Drinking Water, held in
   Bangkok, Thailand, in January 2001. This was followed by the 2 nd Meeting of Experts on Mon-
   itoring Chemicals in Drinking Water, also held in Bangkok, in December 2001. Both meetings
   were sponsored by WHO and hosted by the Department of Health, Ministry of Public Health,
   Thailand. The draft guidance document was subsequently tested in a series of field trials in
   2002–2003 in Indonesia, Fiji, Nepal, Mongolia, the Philippines and Thailand. Lessons learnt
   through the field trials provided feedback that was valuable in revising and finalizing the document.

           Readers should note that while this publication has been developed as a supporting
   document for, and with reference to, the Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, the guidelines
   themselves are frequently updated and the latest information should always be sought by ref-
   erence to relevant World Health Organization publications and web site.
   (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/guidelines/en/index.html)


   References
   WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
   Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

   WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
   Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
                                                                                                   ix




    Acknowledgements
    The World Health Organization (WHO) wishes to express its appreciation to all whose efforts
    made possible the production of this document. WHO would particularly like to thank the prin-
    cipal authors who prepared the document:
≥   Terrence Thompson, WHO, Manila, Philippines (formerly WHO, New Delhi, India)
≥   John Fawell, High Wycombe, United Kingdom
≥   Shoichi Kunikane, National Institute of Public Health, Waco, Japan
≥   Darryl Jackson, Earth Tech, Melbourne, Australia (formerly TEAR-Australia, Kathmandu, Nepal)
≥   Stephen Appleyard, Department of Environment, Perth, Western Australia
≥   Philip Callan, National Health and Medical Research Council, Canberra, Australia
≥   Jamie Bartram, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland
≥   Philip Kingston, Queensland Environmental Protection Agency, Brisbane, Australia.

  The preparation of this guidance (including testing of drafts in various countries) would not have
  been possible without the generous support of the following, which is gratefully acknowledged:
≥ Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, Sweden
≥ Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan
≥ Department for International Development of the United Kingdom.

    Contributions to this document from the following are also gratefully acknowledged:
≥   Taufiqul Arif, WHO, Dhaka, Bangladesh
≥   Ali KT Basaran, WHO, Papua New Guinea (formerly WHO, Manila, Philippines)
≥   Theechat Boonyakarnkul, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand
≥   Leang Chhaly, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
≥   John Chilton, British Geological Survey, Wallingford, United Kingdom
≥   Robin Lal Chitrakar, Ministry for Physical Planning and Works, Kathmandu, Nepal
≥   Termsak Chotiwanwiroch, Metropolitan Waterworks Authority, Bangkok, Thailand
≥   Bruce Copper, Jiggi, New South Wales, Australia (formerly Orica Watercare, Lismore, New
    South Wales, Australia)
≥   Hening Darpito, UNICEF, Jakarta, Indonesia (formerly Ministry of Health, Jakarta, Indonesia)
≥   Shinee Enkhtsetseg, WHO, Ulaanbaatar (formerly Ministry of Health, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia)
≥   Frank Fladerer, Bremen Overseas Research and Development Agency, Yogyakarta, Indonesia
    (formerly GTZ, Jakarta, Indonesia)
≥   Sam Godfrey, UNICEF, Bhopal, India (formerly Water Engineering and Development Centre,
    Loughborough, United Kingdom)
≥   Fiona Gore, WHO, Geneva
≥   Guy Howard, United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), Glasgow,
    Scotland, United Kingdom (formerly DFID, Dhaka, Bangladesh; and formerly Water Engineering
    and Development Centre, Loughborough, United Kingdom)
≥   Hiroki Hashizume, Ministry of Environment, Kobe, Japan (formerly WHO, Geneva)
≥   Han Heijnen, WHO, Kathmandu, Nepal (formerly WHO, Dhaka, Bangladesh and WHO, New
    Delhi, India)
 x




≥ Shamsul Huda, WHO, Jakarta, Indonesia (formerly WHO, New Delhi, India and WHO Kath-
  mandu, Nepal)
≥ S.M. Ihtishamul Huq, Department of Public Health Engineering, Dhaka, Bangladesh
≥ Steven Iddings, WHO, Suva, Fiji (formerly WHO, Phnom Penh, Cambodia)
≥ Issarapun Karnjanareka, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Bangkok, Thailand
  (formerly Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand)
≥ Mohiuddin Khan, Dhaka, Bangladesh
≥ T.V. Luong, UNICEF, Bangkok, Thailand
≥ Ismail Iriani Malik, Ministry of Health, Jakarta, Indonesia
≥ Nelly Nakamatsu Nakamatsu, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima, Peru
≥ Madan Nanoti, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur, India
≥ Novalinda, GTZ, Jakarta, Indonesia
≥ Cha-aim Pachanee, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand
≥ Sumol Pavittranon, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand
≥ Ratchanee Phataisit, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Bangkok, Thailand (for-
  merly Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand)
≥ Martin Parkes, North China College of Water Resources and Hydropower, Zhengzhou, China
≥ Parthu, Provincial Commission of Indonesian Water Supply Association, Mataram, Indonesia
≥ Robert Pocock, Voice of Irish Concern for the Environment, Dublin, Ireland
≥ David Power, MA (Cantab), Meghalaya, India
≥ Joselito Riego de Dios, Department of Health, Manila, Philippines
≥ Mickey Sampson, Resources Development International – Cambodia, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
≥ Gul Bahar Sarker, WHO, Dhaka, Bangladesh
≥ Druba B. Shreshta, Ministry for Physical Planning and Works, Kathmandu, Nepal
≥ Felipe Solsona, Kwakukundala International, Lima, Peru (formerly Pan American Center for
  Sanitary Engineering and Environmental Sciences, Lima, Peru)
≥ Jan Speets, Jakarta, Indonesia (formerly WHO, Kathmandu, Nepal and WHO, Jakarta, Indonesia)
≥ Suwardji, University of Mataram, Mataram, Indonesia
≥ Tua Tipi, Department of Health, Apia, Samoa
≥ Agustiah Tri Tugaswati, Ministry of Health, Jakarta, Indonesia
≥ Huub van Wees (formerly ESCAP, Bangkok, Thailand)
≥ Robert Verkerk, Alliance for Natural Health, United Kingdom
≥ Sombo Yamamura, Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour, Tokyo, Japan (formerly WHO, Geneva)
≥ Maged Younes, UN Environment Programme, Geneva, Switzerland (formerly WHO, Geneva,
  Switzerland)


  Special thanks are also due to Penelope Ward of WHO, Geneva, and to Mahesh Talwar and
  U.S. Baweja of WHO, New Delhi, for secretarial support; and to Dr Hilary Cadman, Biotext,
  Canberra, Australia, for editing the publication.
                                                                   xi




Abbreviations and acronyms
AMD      acid mine drainage
BGS      British Geological Survey
BTEX     benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes
DDT      dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane
EDTA     ethylenediaminetetraacetic (edetic) acid
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDWQ     WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
HAA      haloacetic acid
MTBE     methyl tert-butyl ether
NTA      nitrilotriacetic acid
PAH      polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon
PTWI     provisional tolerable weekly intake
PVC      polyvinyl chloride
TBA      terbuthylazine
TBTO     tributyltin oxide
TDS      total dissolved solids
THM      trihalomethane
UN       United Nations
WHO      World Health Organization
WHOPES   WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme
A
Assessing and
managing priorities
1
Introduction
02
                                                                                            Introduction | 03




1|1
The need for guidance on assessing priorities
for risk management
Safe drinking-water is a basic need for human development, health and well-being, and
because of this it is an internationally accepted human right (WHO, 2001). This document
provides guidance on the chemical safety of drinking-water. Chemical contaminants of drink-
ing-water are often considered a lower priority than microbial contaminants, because adverse
health effects from chemical contaminants are generally associated with long-term expo-
sures, whereas the effects from microbial contaminants are usually immediate. Nonetheless,
chemicals in water supplies can cause very serious problems.
        Nitrate in ground and surface water associated with agricultural activity was one of
the earliest chemicals to cause general concern among public health authorities and water
suppliers. More recently, the presence in groundwater of naturally occurring chemicals, such
as arsenic and fluoride, has caused widespread exposure and unacceptable health effects in
many countries. Also, there are examples from around the world of waste discharges from
industrial developments and human settlements that have contaminated water supplies. Thus,
there is a clear need to take into account chemical contaminants in developing risk manage-
ment strategies for the safety of drinking-water.
        Theoretically, it is possible to assess at a national or local level the health risks from
chemicals in drinking-water for every chemical for which a guideline has been set. The World
Health Organization (WHO) has published procedures for assessing chemical health risks
(WHO, 1994; WHO, 1999). These assessments may be used to manage chemical risks to
water safety by the development of control and monitoring programmes, and of national stan-
dards for drinking-water quality. However, to make such assessments and develop manage-
ment strategies for every chemical would be impractical and would require considerable
resources, posing problems for many countries. A more effective approach where resources
are limited is to identify and focus on those priority chemicals for which significant human
exposure is expected to occur, recognizing that priorities may vary from country to country,
and within countries.
        In many countries, the development of appropriate risk management strategies is
hampered by a lack of information on the presence and concentration of chemicals in drinking-
water. Water authorities attempting to identify priority chemicals despite having limited information
would benefit from guidance on simple and rapid assessment methods. These could be applied at
a national or local level to provide a shortlist of priority chemicals, which could then be more rigor-
ously assessed for health risks. The present publication seeks to meet the need for such guidance.


1|2
Objective
The objective of this publication is to help users at national or local level to establish which
chemicals in a particular setting should be given priority in developing strategies for risk man-
agement and monitoring of chemicals in drinking-water. The document will be useful to public
04




  health authorities, those responsible for setting standards and for surveillance of drinking-
  water quality, and water supply agencies responsible for water quality management.
          In particular, this publication will be applicable in settings where information on actual
  drinking-water quality is limited, which is the case in many developing countries and in rural
  areas of some developed countries.
          Once priority chemicals have been identified, subsequent risk management strate-
  gies may include setting standards, monitoring and control.


  1|3
  Background
  The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) cover both micro-
  bial and chemical contaminants of drinking-water and describe in detail the scientific
  approaches used in deriving guideline values for those contaminants. They thus provide
  sound guidance for ensuring an appropriate level of safety and acceptability of drinking-water
  for the development of national standards, while taking into consideration the specific prob-
  lems and cultural, social, economic and environmental conditions of a particular country.
          The criteria for including specific chemicals in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water
  Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) are any of the following:
≥ there is credible evidence of occurrence of the chemical in drinking-water, combined with evi-
  dence of actual or potential toxicity
≥ the chemical is of significant international concern
≥ the chemical is being considered for inclusion, or is included, in the WHO Pesticide Evaluation
  Scheme (WHOPES) programme (approval programme for direct application of pesticides to
  drinking-water for control of insect vectors of disease).
          Applying these criteria, the guidelines list nearly 200 chemicals for which guideline val-
  ues have been set or considered (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006). This number may change over time.
          It is important to note that the lists of chemicals for which WHO guideline values have
  been set do not imply that all those chemicals will always be present, nor do they imply that
  specific chemicals for which no guideline values currently exist will not be present in a water
  supply. However, it is not necessary for national or local authorities to develop risk manage-
  ment strategies for each and every chemical for which guideline values have been set, but
  rather to identify and select those chemicals that may be of greatest priority for risk manage-
  ment purposes in the particular setting.


  1|4
  Administrative and policy context
  Many countries currently have administrative processes that could form part of a risk man-
  agement approach for drinking-water quality. Some of the processes commonly carried out
  are described below.
                                                                                        Introduction | 05




≥ Formation of interagency committee. National policy and legislation frequently assign clear
  responsibility to specific agencies for various aspects of drinking-water quality management
  (e.g. risk assessment, standard setting, surveillance and control). Concerned authorities, such
  as public health, environmental, water resources, water supply, agricultural, geological, indus-
  trial and commercial authorities, often establish an interagency committee as a mechanism
  for sharing information, building consensus and coordination.
≥ Review of national and international standards, guidelines and practices. National authorities
  are frequently guided in their decision-making by the norms and guidelines of international
  and regional bodies, and by the standards and practices of developed countries, neighbour-
  ing countries and countries having similar cultural, social, economic and environmental condi-
  tions. These norms and guidelines may be useful as a starting-point for establishing a man-
  agement strategy, particularly in the absence of other information.
≥ Known problems are given priority. Many countries, and many individual water supply organi-
  zations, have already identified a number of drinking-water quality issues through years of
  experience, and have made such issues their highest priority for risk management. This is
  especially true if the issues have caused obvious health effects or aesthetic problems.
≥ Consideration of available resources. Decisions on implementing risk management strategies
  for chemicals in drinking-water are frequently constrained in practical terms by the resources
  available for sampling and testing. Constraints may include human resources, field equipment,
  and transportation and laboratory resources. Therefore, setting priorities requires objective
  and pragmatic consideration of the resources available.
≥ Consideration of feasibility of control. National authorities sometimes debate whether
  resources should be allocated to monitoring chemicals that the country or water supply
  organization lacks the resources to control. Depending on the potential for adverse health
  effects, it is often desirable to build up a water-quality database so that an informed analysis
  can be made of the costs and benefits of controlling such chemicals.
           These administrative practices are valid and useful, but may not fully meet the needs
  of water authorities that need to select a limited number of chemicals as priorities from
  among the many that could be under consideration. For example:
≥ the various interests represented in interagency committees frequently bring their own partic-
  ular priority chemicals into discussions, and these chemicals may not necessarily be of high
  priority from a health perspective;
≥ international norms and standards set by other countries may not be representative of the
  particular environmental, cultural, social or economic conditions of the country in question.
           Limiting the number of chemicals to be managed on the basis of available resources
  for monitoring or control, without consideration of the potential for health effects associated
  with particular chemicals, could result in unacceptably high levels of hazardous chemicals in
  drinking-water. A more rational way to set priorities is needed. The present document is
  intended to meet this need by providing a simple, rapid and rational basis for assigning pri-
  ority to specific chemicals, which can complement administrative practices at local or
  national level.
06




 1|5
 How to use this publication
 Figure 1.1 shows the overall risk management strategy for identifying priority chemicals at local
 or national level. It is assumed that those using this publication are familiar with the principles for
 assigning priority to chemicals, as discussed in Chapter 2 of this document, and have a good
 understanding of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006).
          Except in very simple water supply systems, the application of this guidance normally
 requires collaboration by a multidisciplinary working group, made up of professionals with at
 least a university degree or equivalent. The composition of the working group will vary accord-
 ing to the particular sources of chemicals within the study area, but normally it requires some
 combination of expertise in geology, public health, agriculture, water chemistry and engineering.
          Initially, the probability that specific chemicals may be present in a water system can
 be assessed by applying the techniques described in Part B of this document – Identifying
 specific chemicals. The chapters in Part B, listed in Table 1.1, consider chemicals according
 to their potential source category.

 Table 1.1 | Categorization of sources of chemicals in drinking-water
 Chapter    Source                                         Examples
 number
 4          Naturally occurring chemicals                  Rocks and soils, cyanobacteria in surface water
            (including naturally occurring algal toxins)

 5          Chemicals from agricultural activities         Application of manure, fertilizer and pesticides;
            (including pesticides)                         intensive animal production practices

 6          Chemicals from human settlements               Sewage and waste disposal, urban runoff,
            (including those used for public health        fuel leakage
            purposes; for example, for vector control)

 7          Chemicals from industrial activities           Manufacturing, processing and mining

 8          Chemicals from water treatment                 Water treatment chemicals; corrosion of,
            and distribution                               and leaching from, storage tanks and pipes



 The great majority of chemicals that may be of concern in drinking-water are associated with
 these five source categories, but other sources not considered in this publication may occa-
 sionally be important. Examples of other sources are military operations and facilities, and
 accidental or intentional contamination of water supplies. These situations need to be
 assessed on a case-by-case basis, and may require highly specialized expertise.
         The techniques described in Part B generally entail collecting, collating and interpret-
 ing data and information on risk factors associated with the occurrence of chemicals in each
 source category. The data and information sources to be consulted are usually somewhat
 broader than those traditionally familiar to public health authorities and water supply agen-
 cies. They may include geological surveys, agricultural, industrial and commercial authorities,
 customs agencies and others.
                                                                                    Introduction | 07




Figure 1.1 | Risk management strategy for the identification of priority chemicals




                           Identify priority chemicals to be monitored

                                Essential priority chemicals
                              Fluoride, arsenic, selenium, nitrate


                                 Other priority chemicals
                                Applicable to particular setting


                             Important water quality indicators
                                   pH, turbidity, ammonia




             Set and review standards                   Develop capacity
           ≥ Health-based targets                     ≥ Training
           ≥ Consideration                            ≥ Institutional development
             of local conditions                      ≥ Quality assurance




                                       Assessing risk
                           Water quality monitoring and surveillance




                                Optimize risk management
                                    (Water safety plan)




                                            Goal
                      To maximize health benefits under limited resources
                              by risk management approaches
08




 By applying the techniques described in this publication, users can make informed judge-
 ments as to whether or not specific chemicals in each source category are likely to result in
 significant exposure of consumers. These judgements may be recorded on the worksheet
 provided in Appendix 1. That appendix lists all of the chemicals for which guideline values
 have been established in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO,
 2006) and leaves space for users to add other chemicals that may be of local concern.


 1|6
 References
 WHO (1994). Environmental Health Criteria Document No. 170 Assessing human health risks
 of chemicals: derivation of guidance values for health-based exposure limits, World Health
 Organization, Geneva.

 WHO (1999). Environmental Health Criteria Document No. 210. Principles for the assessment
 of risks to human health from exposure to chemicals, World Health Organization, Geneva.

 WHO (2001). Water health and human rights, World Water Day 2001. Available online at
 http://www.worldwaterday.org/thematic/hmnrights.html#n4

 WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
 Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

 WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
 Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
Introduction | 09
2
General principles and
basis for prioritizing
chemicals
12
                                                      General principles and basis for prioritizing chemicals | 13




  2|1
  Principles for assigning priorities for risk management
  The two main criteria for identifying specific chemicals of concern to public health in any par-
  ticular setting are:
≥ high probability of consumer exposure from drinking-water
≥ significant hazard to health.
           Chemicals judged to be more likely to occur and to be highly hazardous to human
  health should be given greater priority for risk management than those judged less likely to
  occur in the drinking-water and to have lower health hazards. The period of exposure should
  also be considered, because health effects caused by chemicals in drinking-water generally
  result from long-term exposure. Few chemicals in drinking-water have been shown to cause
  acute health problems in the short term, except through intentional or accidental contamina-
  tion on a large scale. In such instances, the water frequently (but not always) becomes
  undrinkable due to unacceptable taste, odour or appearance (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006).
           Risk management strategies for chemicals in drinking-water should also take into
  account the broader context. For example, if drinking-water is not the main route of exposure
  for a chemical, then controlling levels in water supply systems may have little impact on pub-
  lic health. Thus, risk management strategies need to consider alternative routes of exposure
  (e.g. food) that equal or surpass the importance of exposure through drinking-water (WHO,
  2004; WHO, 2006). The management strategies should also consider national and local dis-
  ease surveillance data, and epidemiological studies (provided that these are available and reli-
  able). Unusual prevalence of certain illnesses in the community (e.g. arsenicosis) may justify
  an investigation of specific chemicals in drinking-water. Often, disease surveillance data or
  relevant epidemiological studies are not available at community level; therefore, other
  approaches are needed. Section 2.2 (below) provides guidance on assigning priorities in sit-
  uations where data are limited.
           Where there are adequate data on drinking-water quality, it may be possible to estab-
  lish priorities for managing risks due to chemicals simply by studying such data. However, in
  many locations these data too may be lacking, and limited resources may mean that it is
  impractical to attempt to conduct comprehensive field studies on a broad range of chemicals
  in drinking-water. In such situations, it is important to focus available resources on investiga-
  tions of a limited number of chemicals that are likely to occur in drinking-water at concentra-
  tions near or exceeding guideline values. Similarly, any initiatives to build national or local
  capacity for sampling and analysis through equipment procurement or training should be tar-
  geted at chemicals that have been identified as priorities through a methodical desktop analysis.
           Priority should also be assigned to chemicals in drinking-water that may significantly
  degrade aesthetic quality or cause significant problems for the operations and maintenance
  of water supply systems. While aesthetic considerations may not have a direct impact on pub-
  lic health, changes in taste, odour or appearance of drinking-water may prompt some con-
  sumers to turn to other sources of drinking-water that may be microbiologically unsafe. Simi-
  larly, chemicals that cause operational problems, such as corrosion or encrustation of
  distribution systems, may have an indirect impact on public health by compromising the abil-
  ity to maintain the water supply.
14




 2|2
 Setting priorities with limited information
 Identifying chemicals of concern to public health in drinking-water is based on the hazard to
 health of those chemicals and the probability of exposure. In many parts of developing coun-
 tries, and in rural areas of some developed countries, water quality data are limited or nonex-
 istent, making it difficult to determine priorities for risk management based on both criteria. In
 such cases, the priority for risk management must be determined on the probability of expo-
 sure alone.
          Health-based targets for chemicals (e.g. the guideline values in the WHO Guidelines
 for Drinking-water Quality – WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) are concentrations that would gener-
 ally not have a negative health impact if consumed over a lifetime. Therefore, the likelihood of
 a particular chemical occurring at concentrations that would cause health impacts is the most
 appropriate indicator that the chemical may be of concern in such situations.
          Human exposure to any particular chemical through drinking-water requires a source
 of that chemical and a pathway from the source of contamination to the consumer. Pathways
 for transport of chemicals may be through natural features such as aquifers, surface water
 bodies, soils and rock, or overland flow, or through human-made components of water supply
 systems.
          The concentration of a chemical in water may be reduced before the water reaches
 consumers – physical, chemical and biological processes may reduce the concentration of
 particular chemicals between their sources and consumers. For example, human-made inter-
 ventions, such as drinking-water treatment, are a well-known means of lowering chemical
 concentrations, and many natural processes will also significantly reduce chemical concen-
 trations in drinking-water (as discussed in Section 2.3, below). Specialized expertise may be
 needed to rigorously evaluate the effects of such processes in any particular setting, but a
 general understanding of the processes may enable informed judgements to be made that
 may be adequate for decision-making purposes. The ability of general and specific water
 treatment processes to achieve concentrations of chemicals below their respective guideline
 values is discussed in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO,
 2006). Where detailed information about reduction in concentration of a chemical as it trav-
 els from water source to consumer is lacking, an initial conservative approach would be to
 assign priority for management of chemicals in drinking-water solely on the likelihood of the
 occurrence and estimated concentration of those chemicals in a particular setting.
          The presence of a particular chemical in drinking-water does not necessarily result in
 human exposure to a concentration that may cause concern; for example, the concentration
 of the chemical may be well below the guideline value. Part B of this publication provides
 guidance on assessing the likely occurrence of chemicals associated with the main sources
 of chemicals in drinking-water.
          Appendix 1 includes a summary of potential sources of all chemicals for which guide-
 line values have been set or considered.
                                                     General principles and basis for prioritizing chemicals | 15




2|3
Factors affecting chemical concentrations along pathways
As indicated above, chemicals that occur within a catchment may not necessarily be present
in drinking-water in significant concentrations, because water treatment and natural
processes can reduce the concentrations of particular chemicals between their source and
the consumer. The principal natural processes involved are discussed briefly below.

2| 3|1 Mixing and dilution
Mixing of source water as it enters a stream, river or lake will lower the concentrations of spe-
cific chemicals if the levels of those chemicals are lower in the receiving body of water. (Sim-
ilarly, dilution by mixing two sources of water in a water supply system can reduce chemical
concentrations.) Thus, larger water bodies with high flow rates and good mixing characteris-
tics may be less vulnerable to chemical contamination from discharges or runoff than smaller
sources with low volumes and flow rates.

2| 3| 2 Volatilization
Organic chemicals with a low boiling-point, such as some chlorinated solvents, frequently dis-
perse from surface water by volatilization, particularly if the water is turbulent. Such chemicals
are known as volatile organic compounds.

2| 3| 3 Adsorption
Both inorganic and organic chemicals may be adsorbed to soil, sediment or rock, particularly
in the presence of clay, or of soils or sediment rich in organic carbon. Adsorption can occur as
water percolates through soil or rock, or as it flows over sediments. However, this process is
less significant for inorganic chemicals at low pH. In the case of organic chemicals, those with
a high octanol/water partition coefficient (i.e. those that are more fat soluble) are more likely
to adsorb to soil, or to sediments and particles in the water column than chemicals with a low
coefficient. This effect can be a major factor in reducing the mobility of chemicals in the envi-
ronment and reducing their concentration in water. Water treatment processes designed to
act as barriers to pathogens (e.g. coagulation and filtration) will remove particles and will thus
significantly reduce the concentrations of substances that are adsorbed to particles.

2| 3| 4 Chemical environment
Metals such as iron and copper are generally most soluble in acidic water (i.e. pH < 7), and
solubility increases as the pH drops. Other metals, such as aluminium and zinc, are more sol-
uble in alkaline water, especially when the pH is above 10. In mildly acidic water (i.e. pH
4.5–6.5), metals such as iron and copper have a low solubility under extreme anaerobic and
aerobic conditions. This is due to the formation of sulfide minerals that have a low solubility
under highly anaerobic conditions, and the formation of low-solubility hydroxide and oxide
minerals under highly aerobic conditions.
16




 2| 3| 5 Biological degradation
 Many microorganisms can break down organic chemicals in the environment. For a lot of
 chemicals, this is one of the most important mechanisms for reducing environmental concen-
 trations, and it is particularly important in soils and sediments.

 2| 3| 6 Groundwater vulnerability
 Groundwater is abstracted from many different types of aquifers, some of which may be
 highly susceptible to pollution as a consequence of human activity. The vulnerability of
 groundwater sources is important when assessing the risks to groundwater posed by various
 activities. Some aquifers are protected by one or more layers of impermeable material, such
 as clay, that lie above the saturated zone and that will prevent or retard the transport of chem-
 icals from their sources to the saturated zone. Also, aquifers at certain depths may be pro-
 tected from chemicals (even from some naturally occurring chemicals) that may be present at
 other depths in the geological profile.


 2|4
 Frequent priorities for risk management
 As discussed above, for risk management purposes, priority should be assigned to specific
 chemicals on the basis of site-specific assessments. However, it is also important to pay par-
 ticular attention to chemicals that have been found in many locations worldwide to present
 serious human health hazards due to exposure through drinking-water. These chemicals are
 mentioned below and are discussed in greater detail in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-
 water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006).

 2| 4| 1 Fluoride, arsenic and selenium
 Fluoride, arsenic and (to a lesser extent) selenium are naturally occurring chemicals that have
 been responsible for severe health effects due to exposure through drinking-water in many
 countries. Their distribution in groundwater is widespread and their possible presence in sur-
 face water should not be ruled out, because groundwater discharge is frequently a major con-
 tributor to surface water bodies.

 2| 4| 2 Nitrate
 Nitrate may be naturally occurring, although its presence in drinking-water is more often
 associated with contamination by excessive use of fertilizers (both inorganic and organic), in
 combination with inappropriate farming practices and/or sewage. This chemical occurs widely
 throughout the world in both groundwater and surface water, and presents a particular prob-
 lem in shallow wells. Nitrate is a major problem for bottle-fed infants, in whom the risk of
 methaemoglobinaemia (“blue-baby syndrome”), increases as the concentration of nitrate
 rises above 50 mg/L. The risk is increased by the presence of nitrite, which is a much more
 potent methaemoglobinaemic agent than nitrate, and by the presence of microbial contami-
 nation, which can lead to gastric infections in infants.
                                                       General principles and basis for prioritizing chemicals | 17




2| 4| 3 Iron and manganese
Significant concentrations of iron and manganese occur throughout the world. Although
these chemicals are not suspected of causing direct health effects through their presence in
drinking-water, they can cause severe discolouration of water, which may lead to consumers
turning to other, microbially unsafe sources of drinking-water. Iron and manganese also fre-
quently cause operational problems.

2| 4| 4 Lead
The presence of lead in drinking-water can cause severe health effects and is primarily a con-
sequence of the use of lead plumbing and lead-containing metal fittings in buildings.
Although lead may be present in source waters, this is unusual except in some mining areas.
Generally, lead is not a high priority for routine monitoring programmes because of the vari-
ability from building to building, but possible risks posed by lead in drinking-water should be
assessed in localities where lead has been extensively used in plumbing materials, particularly
if the water supplied is corrosive or is likely to dissolve lead. If lead concentrations significantly
exceed guideline values, it may be appropriate to apply mitigating measures, such as corro-
sion control or replacement of pipes and plumbing materials. This is discussed further in
Chapter 8.


2|5
References
WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
3
Developing and
implementing risk
management strategies
20
                                                    Developing and implementing risk management strategies | 21




3|1
Identifying priority chemicals in a drinking-water supply
Many different chemicals may occur in drinking-water; however, only a few are important in
any given circumstance. Of particular importance are adverse health outcomes relating to
chemical constituents of drinking-water arising primarily from prolonged exposure. It is
extremely unlikely that all the chemicals included in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water
Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) will be present in a drinking-water supply system. Conse-
quently, it is important that countries identify those chemicals of concern according to local
circumstances. Chemical contaminants in drinking-water should be prioritized to ensure that
scarce resources are not unnecessarily directed towards management of chemicals that
pose no threat to health and do not affect the acceptability of drinking-water.
          As it is neither physically nor economically feasible to test for all chemical constituents
in drinking-water, monitoring efforts and resources should be carefully planned and directed
at significant or key parameters.
          The process outlined in this publication provides guidance to assist water supply util-
ities, in collaboration with public health authorities, to identify those chemicals that are likely
to be present in an individual water supply, and may represent a potential public health risk.
Identifying such chemicals is achieved by developing an understanding of the characteristics
of the drinking-water catchment, including natural influences on groundwater and surface
water, the types and size of industrial and agricultural activities, and human settlements within
a catchment. Treatment and distribution of drinking-water also influence the final quality of
water delivered to the consumer. In addition, chemicals, materials and processes used in the
production and distribution of water will influence the chemical quality of drinking-water.
          In assessing the chemical quality of a water supply, it is important to include the four
priority chemicals (fluoride, arsenic, selenium and nitrate) first, before assessing the water
supply system for chemicals of local concern. Extensive international experience has shown
that these four chemicals produce adverse health effects as a consequence of exposure
through numerous water supplies around the world. Two other commonly occurring con-
stituents, iron and manganese, are of high priority because they can give rise to significant
discolouration of drinking-water, making it unacceptable to consumers, who may turn to sup-
plies that are more aesthetically acceptable but may be microbiologically contaminated.
          Once priority chemicals within a particular drinking-water system have been identified,
a management policy should be established and implemented to provide a framework for the
prevention and reduction of these chemicals. Appropriate monitoring programmes should be
established to ensure that the chemical quality of drinking-water remains within appropriate
national standards.
22




 3|2
 Drinking-water standards and guidelines
 Every country should have a policy on drinking-water quality. This would normally embody dif-
 ferent approaches depending on whether formal responsibility for drinking-water quality is
 assigned to a defined entity, or whether community management prevails.
          Effective national programmes to control drinking-water quality depend ideally on the
 existence of adequate legislation, standards and codes. The precise nature of the legislation
 in each country will depend on national, constitutional and other considerations. Generally, the
 legislation should outline the responsibility and authority of a number of agencies, describe
 the relationship between them and establish basic policy principles.
          The nature and form of drinking-water standards may vary between countries and
 regions – no single approach is universally applicable. It is essential in the development and
 implementation of standards to take into account current and planned legislation relating to
 the water, health and local government sectors and to assess the capacity of potential regu-
 lators in the country. Approaches that may have worked in one country or region do not nec-
 essarily transfer to other countries. It is essential that each country undertake a review of its
 needs and capacity for drinking-water standards before embarking on the development of a
 regulatory framework. This review should include an assessment of existing and future sup-
 porting activities.
          Standards developed by countries should be applicable to large metropolitan and
 small community piped systems, and also to non-piped drinking-water systems in small com-
 munities and individual dwellings. National and regional standards should be developed from
 the scientific basis provided by the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004;
 WHO, 2006), adapted to take account of local or national environmental, sociocultural
 (including dietary) and economic conditions. The guidelines provide further information on the
 development and implementation of national standards.


 3|3
 Overview of management procedures
 The implementation of a successful risk management strategy requires the development of
 an understanding of those hazards that may impact on the quality of water being provided to
 a community. A wide range of chemicals in drinking-water could potentially cause adverse
 human health effects. The detection of these chemicals in both raw water and in water deliv-
 ered to consumers is often slow, complex and costly, which means that detection is too
 impractical and expensive to serve as an early warning system. Thus, reliance on water-qual-
 ity determination alone is insufficient to protect public health. As it is neither physically nor
 economically feasible to test for all drinking-water quality parameters, monitoring effort and
 resources should be carefully planned and directed at significant or key characteristics.
          A preventive management strategy, operating from the water catchment to the tap,
 should be implemented to ensure drinking-water quality. The strategy should combine protec-
 tion of water sources, control of treatment processes and management of the distribution and
 handling of water.
                                                    Developing and implementing risk management strategies | 23




           The management procedures developed by water suppliers can be described as a
  water safety plan. Such a plan, which is the basis of ensuring water safety, contains three key
  components:
≥ A full system assessment to determine whether an existing or planned drinking-water supply
  is capable of meeting health-based targets.
≥ Identification of measures that will control identified risks and ensure that those health-based
  targets are met within the system. For each measure, appropriate monitoring procedures
  should be defined to ensure that deviations from performance criteria are quickly detected.
≥ Development of management plans to describe actions to be taken during normal operation
  or incident conditions and to document the system assessment (including upgrades and
  improvements), monitoring and communication plans and supporting programmes.
           The water safety plan should address all aspects of the water supply and should focus
  on the control of water production, treatment and delivery of drinking-water, up to the point of
  consumption. The plan provides the basis for a process control methodology to ensure that
  concentrations of chemicals are acceptable.
           Development of water safety plans is discussed in detail in the Guidelines for Drinking-
  water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) and in the WHO Water Safety Plans (Davison et al.
  2005).

  3| 3| 1 Health-based targets
  For individual constituents of drinking-water, health-based targets are established. These tar-
  gets represent a health risk from long-term exposure, in a situation where fluctuations in con-
  centration are small or occur over long periods. It is important that such targets are defined by
  the relevant local authority, are realistic under local operating conditions and are set to pro-
  tect and improve public health.
           A health-based target specifies the agreed criteria for the quality of water delivered to
  the consumer. It is used to evaluate the adequacy of existing installations and to assist in ver-
  ification (through inspection and analysis).
           Table 3.1 presents an overview of the health-based targets. For further information on
  the development and application of health-based targets, refer to the WHO Guidelines for
  Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006)
24




     Table 3.1 | Health-based targets for application to microbial and chemical
     constituents of drinking-water
     Type of target            Nature of target                Typical application             Assessment

     Health outcome
     – epidemiology based      Reduction in disease            Microbial or chemical      Public health
                               incidence or prevalence         hazards with high          surveillance and
                                                               measurable disease burden, analytical epidemiology
                                                               largely water-associated

     – risk assessment based   Tolerable level of risk         Microbial or chemical       Quantitative risk
                               by contaminants in              hazards in situations where assessment
                               drinking-water, absolute        disease burden is low
                               or as a fraction of the total   and cannot be measured
                               burden by all exposures         directly

     Water quality             Guideline value applied         Chemical constituents           Periodic measurement of
                               to water quality                with effects on health          chemical constituents to
                                                               or acceptability of             assess compliance with
                                                               drinking-water                  relevant guideline values
                                                                                               (see GDWQ Chapter 8)

                               Guideline values applied        Chemical additives              Testing procedures applied
                               in testing procedures for       and by-products                 to the materials and
                               materials and chemicals                                         chemicals to assess their
                                                                                               contribution to drinking-
                                                                                               water exposure taking
                                                                                               account of variations
                                                                                               over time (see GDWQ
                                                                                               Chapter 8)

     Performance               Generic performance      Microbial contaminants                 Compliance assessed
                               target for removal of                                           through system
                               groups of microorganisms                                        assessment and operation
                                                                                               monitoring (see GDWQ
                                                                                               Chapter 4)

                               Customized performance                                          Individually reviewed by
                               targets                                                         public health authority;
                                                                                               assessment would then
                                                                                               proceed as above

                               Guideline values applied        Threshold chemicals with        Compliance assessed
                               to water quality                effects on health that          through system
                                                               vary widely (e.g. nitrate and   assessment and operation
                                                               fluoride)                       monitoring (see GDWQ
                                                                                               Chapter 4)

     Specified technology      National authority specifies    Constituents with               Compliance assessed
                               processes to adequately         potential health effect in      through system
                               address constituents with       small municipalities and        assessment and operation
                               potential health effects        community supplies              monitoring (see GDWQ
                               (e.g. generic water safety                                      Chapter 4)
                               plans for an unprotected
                               catchment)


 For individual countries, guideline values are the first step towards establishing specific health-
 based targets for their particular circumstances, based on local and regional determinants.
                                                     Developing and implementing risk management strategies | 25




  3| 3| 2 System assessment
  Drinking-water quality can vary significantly throughout the system, and any assessment of
  the drinking-water supply should aim to determine whether the final quality of water delivered
  to the consumer is capable of meeting established health-based targets. The assessment
  needs to take into consideration the behaviour of individual constituents or groups of con-
  stituents that may influence water quality. It also needs an understanding of source quality.
  These influences require expert input. If the assessment indicates that the system is unlikely
  to be able to meet the targets, this means that the targets are unrealistic under current oper-
  ating conditions.
           A comprehensive assessment of the water supply is essential in the development of
  a preventive approach to the management of drinking-water quality. Such an assessment
  should be undertaken through a desktop study of the water supply, combined with site visits.
  Although many chemicals can be of health concern, the true nature and severity of their
  impact often remains uncertain (Howard, 2001). When assessing the chemical constituents
  of drinking-water, the following factors should be carefully considered before undertaking
  more extensive, and often expensive, analysis of the water:
≥ What is the extent of the problem – is there strong evidence that the chemicals are present
  in water sources or are likely to be present?
≥ What is the relevant contribution from drinking-water sources compared with other sources
  (e.g. food)?
≥ How severe is the potential health concern in the context of other health problems?
           Unless there is strong evidence that particular chemicals are currently found or will be
  found in the near future, at levels that may compromise the health of a significant proportion
  of the population, the inclusion of those chemicals in drinking-water monitoring programmes
  is not justified, particularly where resources are limited. It is often more effective to maintain
  an ongoing programme of pollution control and risk assessment in the catchment.

  3| 3| 3 Operational monitoring
  Operational monitoring involves planned observations or measurements to assess whether
  the critical components of a safe water supply are operating properly. If the components are
  operating properly collectively, the system should be able to meet water quality targets.
           In most cases, operational monitoring is based on simple and rapid observations or
  tests, such as turbidity or structural integrity, rather than complex chemical analyses. The
  complex tests are generally applied as part of verification activities rather than routine opera-
  tional monitoring.
           In order to have confidence that the chain of supply is not only operating properly, but
  to confirm that water quality is being maintained and achieved, verification is required. Verifi-
  cation is the use of methods, procedures or tests, in addition to those used in operational
  monitoring, to determine whether the water safety plan complies with the stated objectives
  outlined in the water quality targets, or whether it needs to be modified and revalidated.
26




 3| 3| 4 Management procedures
 Management procedures outline requirements in both normal operational situations and in
 incident situations where a loss of control of the system occurs. The management procedures
 should also outline practices and other supportive measures required to ensure optimal oper-
 ation of the drinking-water system. Targets, assessment and operational monitoring provide
 information needed for the development of management procedures.

 3| 3| 5 Surveillance
 Surveillance of drinking-water quality is the continuous and vigilant public health assessment
 and overview of the safety and acceptability of drinking-water supplies. It contributes to the
 protection of public health by promoting improvements of the quality, quantity, access, afford-
 ability and continuity of water supplies. The role of the surveillance agency is complementary
 to the quality control function of the drinking-water supply agency. Surveillance does not
 remove or replace the responsibility of the water supply agency to ensure that a water supply
 is of acceptable quality and meets predetermined health-based (and other) performance targets.
          Surveillance is based on a systematic programme of surveys and audits, including
 regular sanitary inspections and field surveys, as well as laboratory testing that provides rec-
 ommendations for remedial actions.


 3|4
 References
 Davison A et al. (2005). Water safety plans. Managing drinking-water quality from catchment
 to consumer. Water, Sanitation and Health, World Health Organization, Geneva
 (WHO/SDE/WSH/05.06).

 Howard G (2001). Water supply surveillance: a reference manual. Water, Engineering and
 Development Centre (WEDC), Loughborough University, Loughborough, United Kingdom.

 WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
 Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

 WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
 Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
Developing and implementing risk management strategies | 27
B
Identifying specific
chemicals
4
Naturally occurring
chemicals
32
                                                                       Naturally occurring chemicals | 33




4|1
General
There are a number of sources of naturally occurring chemicals in drinking-water. All natural
water contains a range of inorganic and organic chemicals. The inorganic chemicals derive
from the rocks and soil through which water percolates or over which it flows, whereas the
organic chemicals derive from the breakdown of plant material or from algae and other
microorganisms growing in the water or on sediments. Most of the naturally occurring chem-
icals for which guidelines have been developed or which have been considered for guideline
development are inorganic. Many of the health problems caused by chemical constituents in
water supplies throughout the world are due to chemicals of natural origin rather than those
from human-made pollution.

4| 1| 1 Approach to dealing with naturally occurring chemicals
The approach to dealing with naturally occurring chemicals will vary according to the nature
of the chemical and the source. For inorganic contaminants, which come from rocks and sed-
iments, it is important to screen possible water sources to determine whether the source is
suitable for use or whether it will be necessary to treat the water to remove chemical contam-
inants of concern along with microbial contaminants. Where a number of different sources of
drinking-water are available, dilution of a body of water containing high levels of a contami-
nant with one containing much lower levels may achieve the desired result. However, in cir-
cumstances where there are many small local water supplies, often based on hand pumps,
dealing with naturally occurring chemicals may present considerable difficulties, especially if
alternative supplies are very limited.
         Where possible, authorities should consider which areas are likely to be affected by
the chemicals of highest concern and determine how concentrations can be minimized (e.g.
by determining the best depth to sink tubewells to avoid contamination). In situations where
there are significant concentrations of natural contaminants of concern, it may be appropriate
to encourage community-based action to minimize concentrations (e.g. through local treat-
ment or sharing water from wells with the lowest concentrations).

4| 1| 2 Aesthetic effects
Not all natural constituents are of direct concern for health – some may impact on the aes-
thetic quality of drinking-water by affecting the taste or odour, or by causing discolouration.
Chemicals most commonly causing discolouration are iron and manganese, which are consid-
ered to be a high priority for consideration because consumers may find water contaminated
with these metals unacceptable and may turn to other sources of drinking-water that may be
microbially unsafe. High concentrations of sulfate, in association with cations, such as mag-
nesium, may have a laxative effect on people not accustomed to the water. Similarly, chloride
in high concentrations can contribute to a salty taste, although neither sulfate nor chloride is
harmful in moderate concentrations.
34




 4| 1| 3 Common health hazards
 A number of the most important chemical contaminants (i.e. those that have been shown to
 cause adverse health effects as a consequence of exposure through drinking-water) fall into
 the category of naturally occurring chemicals. These are fluoride, arsenic, selenium and, in
 some circumstances, nitrate. In many parts of the world, the long-term consumption of haz-
 ardous, naturally occurring chemicals such as arsenic and fluoride, particularly through drink-
 ing groundwater, is a major cause of chronic disease, disablement and premature death.
          High concentrations of naturally occurring chemicals generally occur where water has
 been in contact with rocks or soil for long periods under certain conditions. Such conditions, which
 generally occur in aquifers where groundwater flow rates are low, are more likely to be found in
 arid and semiarid regions. To a large extent, health problems caused by naturally occurring chem-
 icals are associated with the use of groundwater as a source of drinking-water in these regions,
 where there is often no feasible alternative to groundwater. In addition, some springs and (during
 dry periods) most of the water in rivers may originate from groundwater discharge. Thus, surface
 water resources for drinking-water supply may also contain high concentrations of naturally
 occurring chemicals. The high fluoride concentrations found in some parts of India are an exam-
 ple of surface waters being contaminated by a naturally occurring chemical from groundwaters.
          It is important that the geological conditions where chemicals are likely to occur at
 toxic levels are well understood, so that water sources can be located in safe areas, or treated
 to remove toxic constituents. This is particularly important when sources are being considered
 for use for drinking-water.


 4|2
 Environmental factors affecting inorganic constituents in
 water
 Whether or not a naturally occurring chemical constituent in drinking-water is of concern
 depends on the geology and on the physical and chemical conditions affecting solubility. Cli-
 mate also has an important role in affecting the way that rocks are broken down and the
 extent to which minerals are leached into rivers or groundwater.
          Table 4.1 (pages 36-37) lists environmental factors affecting the distribution of natu-
 rally occurring toxic chemicals in water and soil. It gives the geological environments in which
 particular chemicals are most likely to be present in water supplies. An example is the pres-
 ence of hot springs, which are associated with volcanic activity and may contain very high
 concentrations of natural chemicals of concern. Such springs can drain to waters that are
 used as drinking-water sources.


 4|3
 Data sources
 Authorities at the national, regional or local level may develop water supply systems. Where
 the water supply developer has not established a comprehensive profile of chemicals in water
 sources (which is often the case), it may be appropriate to seek additional information from
                                                                                    Naturally occurring chemicals | 35




    other sources. In many countries, government geological survey departments and the geology
    departments of universities have information on naturally occurring chemicals in the soil and
    on the risk of these chemicals being found in water sources. Mining companies can also be
    an important source of geological information. The presence of a significant local mining
    industry should be taken as a sign that extra caution is required with regard to water quality
    of groundwater and, in some cases, surface water. All relevant sources of data and informa-
    tion should be consulted.


    4|4
    Indicator parameters and simple tests
    Indicator parameters are measurements that give information about the chemical condition of
    groundwater or a surface water body. These parameters are easily measured in the field and
    are valuable in guiding further investigations. For example, pH is an important indicator of the
    ability of water to dissolve minerals from rocks and soil; dissolved oxygen concentration indi-
    cates whether the water is aerobic or anaerobic; and redox potential can indicate whether or
    not the water is reducing in nature. The results of measurements of such parameters can indi-
    cate the potential presence of hydrogen sulfide or dissolved iron and manganese. An exam-
    ple of a very simple test would be to shake a water sample in a bottle to aerate it – if the water
    becomes brown, this would indicate the presence of dissolved iron or manganese in a water
    that was anaerobic.


    4|5
    Guidance on identifying relevant chemicals
    The facilities and resources available may be sufficient to allow a comprehensive analytical
    assessment of the inorganic constituents in a source.1 However, such an assessment is often
    not possible; in which case, the following sections and Table 4.1 indicate the naturally occur-
    ring chemicals that should be considered in setting priorities for chemicals in drinking-water
    sources.
              Fluoride, arsenic, selenium and, in certain circumstances, nitrate should be given high
    priority. As noted in Chapter 2, the presence of these chemicals in drinking-water has been
    shown to cause health effects. The natural occurrence of these chemicals is relatively com-
    mon in water supplies around the world in both developing and developed countries; there-
    fore, they should be assumed to be potentially present, and consideration should be given as
    to whether they are actually present in concentrations of concern.




1
    Guidance on analytical methodology to determine the inorganic constituents and their concentrations in drink-
    ing-water is outlined in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004).
                                                                                                                                                         36

Table 4.1 | Environmental factors affecting the distribution of naturally occurring toxic chemicals in water and soil

Geological setting 1            Source of water               Climate       Naturally occurring   Land uses that may           Additional chemicals
                                                                            toxic chemicals that  increase concentrations      that may be released
                                                                            may be found in water of possible constituents     from natural sources,
                                                                                                  of water                     due to land uses given
                                                                                                                               in previous column

Granite-like igneous rocks      Groundwater from fractured    Humid, arid   As, Ba, B, F, Rn, U;      Irrigated agriculture,   B, Mo, Pb
(e.g. granites, pegmatites)     bedrock and from regolith                   concentrations of B, F, U mining
                                overlying bedrock                           likely to be higher
                                                                            in drier areas

Alkaline igneous                Groundwater from fractured    Humid, arid   As, Ba, B, F, Rn, U;      Irrigated agriculture,   Mo, Pb
and volcanic rocks              bedrock and from regolith                   very high concentrations mining
                                overlying bedrock                           of F occur in groundwater
                                                                            in these rock types in
                                                                            East Africa

Basalts and magnesium-rich Groundwater from fractured         Humid, arid   SO42-                      Drainage, mining,       Co, Cr, Ni
igneous and volcanic rocks         bedrock and from between                                            groundwater pumping
(e.g. serpentine, talc-rich rocks) lava flows

Contact metamorphic rocks       Groundwater from fractured    Humid, arid   Mo, U, Rn                  Drainage, mining,       Other metals, depending
                                bedrock                                                                groundwater pumping     on mineralization

Iron-rich sedimentary rocks     Groundwater from porous rock, Mainly arid   As, Se, Co                 Irrigated agriculture   Ni
(e.g. sandstones, siltstones)   fractures

Manganese-rich                  Groundwater from porous rock, Mainly arid   As, Ba, Mn                 Irrigated agriculture   Co, Mn, Ni
sedimentary rocks               fractures

Phosphorus-rich sedimentary Groundwater from porous rock or Mainly arid     F, U, Rn                   Irrigated agriculture   Mo, Pb
rocks (limestones, mudstones, from karst features (limestone,
siltstones)                   dolomite and calcrete)

Black shales                    Groundwater from fractured    Humid, arid   As, Mo, Sb                 Drainage, mining,       Ni, Pb
                                bedrock                                                                groundwater pumping
Geological setting 1             Source of water                  Climate        Naturally occurring   Land uses that may               Additional chemicals
                                                                                 toxic chemicals that  increase concentrations          that may be released
                                                                                 may be found in water of possible constituents         from natural sources,
                                                                                                       of water                         due to land uses given
                                                                                                                                        in previous column

Sulfide mineralization           Groundwater from fractured       Humid, arid    Al, As, Co, Cd, Cr, Pb, Mo, Drainage, mining,
                                 bedrock                                         Ni, Sb, Se                  groundwater pumping

Gold mineralization              Groundwater from fractured       Humid, arid    As                            Drainage, mining,        Hg
                                 bedrock                                                                       groundwater pumping

Alluvial plains and deltas,      Groundwater from extensive       Humid, arid    As, Se, U                     Drainage, groundwater    Co, Cd, Cr, Pb, Mo, Ni,
mainly in coastal areas          alluvial aquifers (the most                                                   pumping                  Sb, SO42-
(including buried channels)      significant source of water in
                                 many areas of the world)

All                              Groundwater from fractured       Arid           NO3 – high
                                 bedrock, alluvial aquifers                      concentrations may occur
                                 or calcrete                                     where there are
                                                                                 leguminous plants
                                                                                 (e.g. Acacia species),
                                                                                 and widespread termite
                                                                                 activity

All                              Surface water                    Humid          Cyanobacterial toxins         Agriculture

All                              Groundwater from organic-rich Humid             NH3                           Intensive animal
                                 sediments or stagnant surface                                                 husbandry, agriculture
                                 water bodies

All                              Groundwater from fractured       Humid          I – very low concentrations
                                 bedrock and surface drainage                    occur in areas of very
                                                                                 high rainfall or very high
                                                                                 relief

All                              Surface runoff and groundwater Humid            As                            Agriculture involving
                                 in seasonally submerged soils                                                 flooding of fields
                                                                                                               (e.g. rice paddies),
                                                                                                               aquaculture ponds
1
    Geological association of inorganic constituents based on data presented by Rose et al. (1979)
                                                                                                                                                                  Naturally occurring chemicals | 37
38




 4| 5| 1 Catchment information
 If groundwater is being used, it is important to know where wells and tubewells are located,
 because there may be localized areas where chemicals in the groundwater are of concern.
 Also, groundwater may be stratified, with water at different depths having different chemical
 profiles. In such cases, it is important to understand the potential variation in chemicals caused
 by the stratification.
          When there is no geological information for a water supply catchment, or there is no
 information relating the siting of wells and tubewells and surface sources to the geology of
 the catchment, chemicals of natural origin (i.e. fluoride, arsenic, selenium, iron and man-
 ganese) should be regarded as being present in the water.
          Appendix 1 of this document, and the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
 (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006), contain additional comments on individual chemicals.
 Box 4.1 summarizes the main risk factors associated with the catchment.

 Box 4.1 | Risk factors – catchment information

 Geological or mineralogical information suggests that potentially hazardous chemicals may
 be present in elevated concentrations in the rocks, soils or groundwater within the catch-
 ment area.


 4| 5| 2 Acidity and potential acidity
 A low pH is likely to lead to greater leaching of inorganic constituents from rocks and soil,
 thereby increasing the probability that naturally occurring inorganic substances will be present
 at higher concentrations than would otherwise be expected. When groundwater or surface water
 used for water supply has a pH of less than 4.5 and there are nearby mineral deposits containing
 metals, it would be appropriate to consider those metals in particular. Low pH is widely encoun-
 tered in groundwater from the weathered crystalline basement rocks that provide water supplies
 for villages and small towns in much of sub-Saharan Africa and peninsular India; thus, mobilization
 of iron and manganese is to be expected, and indeed is frequently observed, in these areas.
 Box 4.2 summarizes the main risk factors associated with acidity and potential acidity.

 Box 4.2 | Risk factor – acidity

 Ground or surface water used for water supplies has or is suspected of having a pH of less
 than 4.5


 4| 5| 3 Algal toxins
 Cyanobacteria (also known as blue-green algae) occur widely in lakes, reservoirs, ponds and
 slow-flowing rivers. Many species are known to produce toxins, a number of which are of con-
 cern for health. Several different cyanotoxins, varying in structure, may be found within cells
 or released into water. There is wide variation in the toxicity of known cyanotoxins (including
                                                                          Naturally occurring chemicals | 39




among different varieties of a single toxin, such as the microcystins), and it is likely that there
are further cyanotoxins yet to be discovered.
         Health hazards from algal toxins are primarily associated with overgrowth (bloom)
events. Algal blooms may develop rapidly and be of short duration; they are generally sea-
sonal and are frequently associated with the presence of nutrients, particularly phosphate.
Levels of nutrients are often increased by human activity (see also Chapters 5, 6 and 7),
increasing the likelihood of cyanobacterial blooms.
         Analytical standards are frequently not available for algal toxins, and analysis of the
toxins is slow and difficult (although rapid methods are becoming available for a few of these
toxins, such as the microcystins). Therefore, the preferred approach is to monitor source
water for evidence of blooms, or bloom-forming potential, and to increase vigilance where
such events occur. Chemical analysis of cyanotoxins is not the preferred focus of routine
monitoring, and it is used primarily in response to bloom events.
         Various actions can be used to decrease the probability of bloom occurrence, and
some effective treatments are available for removal of cyanobacteria or their toxins.
Box 4.3 summarizes the main risk factors associated with algal blooms.

Box 4.3 | Risk factor – occurrence of algal blooms

High concentrations (blooms) of cyanobacteria (blue-green algae), such as Microcystis sp.
and Anabaena sp. occur in slow-moving or still surface waters with a moderate to high con-
centration of nutrients, particularly phosphorus. Blooms can occur in both deep and shallow
waters, but are more usual in relatively still periods with a moderate to high light intensity. It is
difficult to predict whether a bloom will produce toxins, but experience in a number of coun-
tries has shown that more than 50% of blooms will generally produce toxins at some stage.


4|6
References
WHO (in preparation). Protecting Surface Waters for Health: Managing the Quality of Drinking-
water Sources, World Health Organization, Geneva and IWA Publishing, London.
Rose AW, Hawkes HE, Webb JS (1979). Geochemistry in mineral exploration, Academic Press,
London.
WHO (1999). Toxic cyanobacteria in water: A guide to their public health consequences, monitoring
and management, World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
WHO (2006). Protecting Groundwater for Health: Managing the Quality of Drinking-
water Sources, World Health Organization, Geneva.
5
Chemicals from
agricultural activities
42
                                                                 Chemicals from agricultural activities | 43




5|1
Introduction
World population and economic growth are driving an increasing demand for agricultural
products. Coupled with the finite extent to which further land can be converted to agricultural
use, this increasing demand has intensified the use of available agricultural land – a trend that
is expected to continue. Intensification of agricultural production carries several potential
risks to water supplies.
         While agricultural practices vary enormously throughout the world (due to variations in
population density, economics, climate, soil types and methods of cultivation), there are a
number of common activities that are significant sources of pollution. The most common
chemical contaminants in drinking-water sources arising from agricultural activity are nitrate
and pesticides, although organic contamination from slurry may create threats to drinking-
water and drinking-water treatment. Human excrement (night soil), animal manures, fertilizers
and biosolids (sewage sludge) used for agricultural purposes may be a source of excess
nutrients, particularly phosphorus, which can contribute to algal blooms in slow-flowing or still
bodies of water (see Chapter 4).
         Many agricultural activities are highly seasonal although some, such as intensive ani-
mal husbandry, are not. Thus, it may be appropriate to consider seasonal changes in risk.


5|2
Data sources
Information on agricultural practices that may impact on drinking-water may be obtained from
direct surveys of catchments and from a variety of other sources, such as farmers’ associa-
tions, agricultural authorities or university extension services. Information on pesticide use
may be available from these sources but, in many countries, registration authorities are the
most important source of information. Where pesticides are imported, customs authorities
may also be able to provide valuable advice. The department of agriculture or farming organ-
izations may know which pesticides are used in a particular catchment. Information on pro-
duction of pesticides for local markets may be available from departments of industry, cham-
bers of commerce, industry associations and similar bodies.
        Simple field observations may prove useful in situations where official sources of
information are deficient. For example, it may be difficult to obtain a full picture of pesticide
use from official sources because there may be widespread illegal use of pesticides, or use
of unregistered pesticides in some instances; also, official records may be incomplete due to
smuggling of pesticides for purposes of evading taxation or other controls. In such situations,
judgements need to be made about which pesticides are likely to be applied under observed
field conditions.
44




 5|3
 Use of human excrement, animal manure, inorganic fertilizer
 and biosolids
 5| 3| 1 Human excrement and animal manure
 Animal manures have a long history of use as a fertilizer and are still widely used. Wastewater
 from intensive animal production farms and other sources is commonly used for irrigation.
 Human excrement is also used in some countries for fertilization of agricultural land. Animal
 manures and human excrement contain nitrogen in a variety of chemical forms (as nitrate,
 ammonium salts and organic nitrogen compounds). The nitrogen content of manure varies
 considerably, depending on the species from which it is derived and their feeding methods;
 generally, the nitrogen content is much higher in manure from poultry than from other live-
 stock. The age of the manure and the conditions under which it has been stored also affect
 the nitrogen content. Longer storage, and the application of manure to the surface of soils,
 can result in the loss of up to 20% of the nitrogen content through the evaporation of ammo-
 nia. This loss is reduced to about 5% if the manure is ploughed into the soil.
          Depending on local chemical conditions in soil, organic nitrogen may be broken down
 to inorganic nitrogen. Ammonium compounds can be oxidized to nitrite, and eventually nitrate,
 which may leach into groundwater and surface water should there be insufficient plant
 growth to take up the available nitrates. In anaerobic waters contaminated with nitrogen,
 ammonia and nitrite may also be present. Nitrite and nitrate should always be considered
 together, since they have the same toxicological effect and the same mechanism of action.
          Slurries of animal manure may also be disposed of by application to land. Leaching of
 nitrates will occur where there is insufficient plant growth to take up the nitrogen and there is
 a net movement of water away from the root zone.

 5| 3| 2 Chemical fertilizers
 Chemical fertilizers are used in most parts of the world, although less so in developing coun-
 tries because of the high cost. The nitrogen content in chemical fertilizers is known, and appli-
 cation rates can be determined accurately. These may vary depending on the cropping sys-
 tem used. Nutrients are more immediately available for plant uptake in chemical fertilizers
 than in manure; however, they may be more easily leached into groundwater if used in excess.
 Slow-release fertilizers reduce this loss.

 5| 3| 3 Biosolids
 Biosolids are the residue of the chemical, biological and physical treatment of municipal and
 industrial wastes, and septic tank treatment processes. A proportion of this material is used
 as a source of nutrients and as a soil amendment in many agricultural areas. Used at appro-
 priate application rates, these sludges are a valuable resource. However, excessive applica-
 tion can lead to a number of problems, including leaching of nitrates into water sources.
 Depending on the source of the sewage, sludge may also contain a number of metals, but
 there is very little evidence for these being a significant source of contamination of water
 sources.
                                                                        Chemicals from agricultural activities | 45




    5| 3| 4 Nitrate levels
    Factors such as soil type, climate, depth of the water table and the use of irrigation determine
    the rate and extent of nitrate transport into groundwater and surface water (Sumner &
    McLaughlin, 1996).
             In relation to soil types, sandy soils are particularly vulnerable to nitrate leaching (Pio-
    nke, Sharma & Hirschberg, 1990; Weil, Weismiller & Turner, 1990), because the high perme-
    ability provides limited opportunity for plant uptake, a situation compounded by the addition of
    excess manure or fertilizer to obtain reasonable yields in this type of soil. Nitrate is retained
    more effectively in loamy soils containing large amounts of organic carbon, although leaching
    can still occur from this type of soil.
             Rainfall is one of the most important climate factors affecting nitrate levels. Heavy rain
    causes an initial peak when infiltrating water flushes nitrate from the soil. In cold climates,
    nitrate leaching takes place during the spring thaw, and during the cooler months, when nitro-
    gen uptake by plants is slow. Like rainfall, irrigation, particularly excessive irrigation, may
    increase the risk of nitrate leaching.
             If the water table is shallow, there is a greater risk of high concentrations of nitrate
    occurring after a relatively short time, whereas in areas where the water table is deep it may
    take many decades before nitrate reaches the groundwater in sufficient quantities to raise
    the nitrate concentration above the guideline value.
             Box 5.1 summarizes the main risk factors associated with manures, fertilizers and biosolids.

    Box 5.1 | Risk factors – manures, fertilizers and biosolids

    Use of manures, fertilizers and biosolids for agriculture
    The catchment area or water source is subjected to agricultural use.
    Manures, fertilizers or biosolids are:
≥   applied to fields when no crops are present
≥   applied without measurement and without regard for crop uptake rates
≥   stored directly on soil with potential to leach liquid to ground or surface water
≥   stored in the open, close to a well used for water supply
≥   used near a sinkhole, abandoned mine shaft, abandoned well or other feature that will allow
    water direct access to the water table.
    Water table
    The water table is close to the surface (e.g. at the end of the wet season, it is easily exposed
    by a hole dug with a shovel).
    The aquifer is vulnerable to contamination.
    Soil thickness
    Manures and fertilizers are applied to fields where there is little soil cover.
    Irrigation
    Irrigation is practised.
    Health surveillance
    There are cases of bottle-fed infants in the catchment suffering from “blue baby” syndrome.
46




 5|4
 Intensive animal practices
 Intensification of agriculture has increased fertilizer use and stock densities, increasing over-
 all nutrient loadings from these diffuse nonpoint sources. At the same time, the growing
 demand for animal products has led to an increase in facilities for intensive animal production
 (sometimes known as “feedlots”), which are often point sources of contamination.
          Feedlots, typically used for beef, pork and poultry, confine animals in open-air or com-
 pletely enclosed pens under controlled environments to optimize growth and the quality of
 meat and other products. They may generate large amounts of wastes that have the potential
 to cause pollution of water resources if improperly managed. The main sources of pollution
 from these facilities are the improper disposal of manure, animal carcasses, wastewater, feed-
 ing and bedding materials. Wastewater may be generated by the washing down of the facili-
 ties and runoff from manure stockpiles, and may be a significant source of pollution from
 feedlots. As well as nutrients, it may contain salts that have been added to the feed. With a
 well-managed facility, much of the wastewater is retained and treated; however, poor man-
 agement practices can allow large amounts of waste to contaminate water resources. In
 developed countries, these intensive stock-rearing practices have been implicated in water-
 pollution incidents.
          Box 5.2 summarizes the main risk factors associated with feedlots.

 Box 5.2 | Risk factors – intensive animal production (feedlots)

 Siting
 Feedlots are sited close to existing water supply wells and rivers used for water supply
 (these pose a greater threat than facilities located at a distance from water supplies).
 Feedlots are located next to sinkholes, abandoned mine shafts, abandoned wells or other
 features that allow drainage direct access to the water table.
 Water management
 Wastewater and water used for washing livestock stalls is allowed to percolate into the
 ground locally or through soakaways, or to contaminate surface water through runoff.
 Wastewater from feedlots is collected for treatment in unlined or poorly managed treatment
 ponds, which can leach into the ground or overflow.
 Wastewater from treatment ponds is applied to fields in excessive amounts, contributing to
 nitrate leaching.
 Additional information
 Feedlots are uncontrolled and not regulated by government authorities.
 Blooms of algae are frequently observed in nearby ponds and other water bodies used for
 drinking-water.
                                                                    Chemicals from agricultural activities | 47




5|5
Use of pesticides
Coinciding with the increasing use of fertilizers is a growing use of pesticides, herbicides and
other chemicals for the control of insects, weeds and fungal pathogens. A large number of
these chemicals, with a wide range of different physical and chemical properties, are currently
used in agriculture, where they have helped to increase crop yields. As analytical methods
become more sophisticated, agricultural chemicals have been detected in water supplies
more frequently. Many of these chemicals are at trace levels, with detection rates being
higher in agricultural areas using these chemicals intensively. WHO has recommended guide-
line values for a number of specific pesticides (WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality –
WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006).
         The degree to which agricultural chemicals can be leached into groundwater through
normal agricultural use depends on a number of factors. These include the extent to which
the chemicals are adsorbed onto organic matter in soils, the extent to which they are
volatilized from the soil, the rate of degradation within the soil, their solubility in water and the
amount of percolating water that is available to mobilize them. The degree to which such
chemicals can contaminate runoff to surface waters depends mainly on local rainfall and the
extent to which the chemicals are adsorbed onto soil.

5| 5| 1 Pathways of contamination
The highest concentrations of agricultural chemicals in water supplies generally result from
the percolation of contaminated runoff into natural and human-made pathways through the
soils, although overspraying of water courses and poor disposal practices may also be impor-
tant. The most common human-made cause of pollution of wells used to supply water relates
to smaller facilities and to direct infiltration by contaminated runoff. Groundwater may be con-
taminated by leaching through highly cracked soils and fissured rocks. Some very soluble and
mobile herbicides may leach to groundwater if they are applied at a time when the net move-
ment of water is downwards and there is little transpiration by plants.
          Agricultural chemicals are generally applied directly to plants (foliar spraying etc.) or
to the soil, and concentrations in surface waters are dependent on factors such as application
rates (including overapplication and misapplication), interception loss on plants, soil charac-
teristics and climate (particularly rainfall) and whether or not irrigation is used. Surface water
is particularly prone to contamination by poor agricultural practices, such as inappropriate dis-
posal of excess chemicals, water from the washing of application equipment and spills. Other
important potential point sources of contamination include chemical storage facilities (partic-
ularly those near water sources), mixing sites for chemicals and animal treatment sites (e.g.
dips and sprays) where concentrations, and the chance of spills, are likely to be high.
          Box 5.3 summarizes the main risk factors associated with the use of pesticides.
48




    Box 5.3 | Risk factors – pesticides

    Storage and mixing
    Pesticides are stored and mixed with no appropriate precautions to contain spills.
    Use
    Pesticides are used:
≥   that are not approved for use by a national licensing authority
≥   at higher than the recommended application rates.
    Pesticides are applied:
≥   immediately before heavy rainfall.
≥   directly to the soil immediately before irrigation, or to crops before spray irrigation.
≥   where the soil is thin and bedrock is exposed or on very sandy soil.
≥   near open wells, sinkholes or other features that allow direct access to the water table.
    Disposal
    Unused pesticide or washings from containers are disposed of in surface water, to soak-
    aways or in other circumstances that will lead to rapid transfer to groundwater.


    5|6
    Irrigation and drainage
    Irrigation and drainage can play a role in the transport of pollutants from their source to the
    water supply. They can also affect groundwater quality by altering the water and salt balance
    in the soil, which in turn changes its physical and chemical characteristics, and affects the
    leaching of chemicals in the soil. Table 4.1 indicates where irrigation and drainage may
    increase the concentrations of naturally occurring chemicals (see Chapter 4).
             Irrigation water may be applied through surface channels, by subsurface trickle or drip
    systems, or by spray, all of which may cause salts to leach from soils in certain circumstances.
    Leaching of salts affects the quality of groundwater and surface water, and can have a severe
    impact in areas where natural water flows are relatively low. Under extreme circumstances,
    excess irrigation may not only lead to the leaching of salts to groundwater but may also cause
    a rise in the water table. In turn, this may result in high levels of salts being reintroduced into
    the soil at a point where they can impact on crops and contaminate surface water.
             A number of contaminants may be introduced into the water system by irrigation. The
    large amount of water used in agriculture makes the risk of leaching nitrates and other chem-
    icals potentially greater in areas that are irrigated. For example, where soils contain significant
    concentrations of selenium, the infiltration of irrigation water can leach this element and
    thereby contaminate water locally. The quality of the water used for irrigation is also important.
    When water with very high mineral content or relatively acid water is used for irrigation, this
    can impact on both surface and groundwater by leaching minerals from soil and rock.
             Drainage from irrigation systems may increase the rate of oxidation of organically
    bound nitrogen, giving rise to elevated nitrate concentrations.
             Box 5.4 summarizes the main risk factors associated with irrigation and drainage.
                                                                      Chemicals from agricultural activities | 49




    Box 5.4 | Risk factors – irrigation and drainage

    Water application
    Untreated or partially treated wastewater is used for irrigation.
    A greater amount of water is applied than is required to maintain growth.
    Irrigation is practised
≥   close to wells used for water supply
≥   on sandy or very permeable soils above aquifers used for drinking-water
≥   when the water table is close to the surface.
    Soil acidity measurements indicate extreme pH levels
    The pH of drainage water is:
≥   less than 4.5
≥   greater than 8.5.




    5|7
    References
    Chorus I and Bartram J (eds) 1999. Toxic Cyanobacteria in Water: A Guide to their Public
    Health Consequences, Monitoring and Management. E & FN Spon published on behalf of
    World Health Organization, London and New York, 416 pp.

    Pionke HB, Sharma ML, Hirschberg K-J (1990). Impact of irrigated horticulture on nitrate
    concentrations in groundwater, Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment, 32:119–132.

    Sumner M, McLaughlin M (1996). Adverse impacts of agriculture on soil, water and food
    quality, in: Naidu R et al., compilers. Contaminants and the Soil Environment in the Australasia –
    Pacific Region, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dortrecht, The Netherlands. 125–181.

    Weil RR, Weismiller RA, Turner RS (1990). Nitrate contamination of groundwater under irri-
    gated coastal plain soils, Journal of Environmental Quality, 19:441–448.

    WHO (2006). Protecting Groundwater for Health: Managing the Quality of Drinking-water
    Sources. World Health Organization, Geneva.

    WHO (in preparation). Protecting Surface Waters for Health: Managing the Quality of Drinking-
    water Sources, World Health Organization, Geneva.
6
Chemicals from
human settlements
52
                                                                       Chemicals from human settlements | 53




  6|1
  Introduction
  Urbanisation is increasing, particularly in developing countries. The transition of people from
  rural areas to cities represents a major, and permanent, demographic shift. This movement to
  cities creates many problems, particularly when housing and infrastructure are unable to keep
  pace with population growth. However, problems associated with human settlements do not
  only arise in large cities – even small settlements can carry risks for drinking-water if insuffi-
  cient care is taken and drinking-water sources are sited close to human habitation. The chem-
  ical risks to drinking-water associated with human settlements described in this section are
  on-site sanitation and sewerage systems, waste disposal, urban runoff, fuel storage, handling
  and disposal of chlorinated solvents, and pesticide application for public health and vector
  control.
           Risk management strategies for the chemical quality of water used for drinking in
  urban areas should take into account chemicals that may possibly be derived from human
  settlements and may affect drinking-water quality. Strategies should also consider potential
  sources of such chemicals and the assumed mechanisms by which they may contaminate
  source water. Often, drinking-water will be abstracted from sources within a city, town or vil-
  lage; usually from groundwater. Thus, the activities within that area of human habitation have
  the potential to pollute the water supply. However, it is also important to consider pollution of
  surface waters by human habitation upstream from other settlements, which means that the
  concept of catchment management should be borne in mind when considering this situation.
           Sources of potential pollution fall into three broad categories as indicated in Table 6.1.
  These categories are:
≥ point sources, where there is a defined and usually identifiable source of pollutant or pollutants;
≥ nonpoint sources, which are widely spread and difficult to clearly identify;
≥ diffuse point sources, which consist of many small point sources.
           The approach to considering each pollution source is slightly different, although there
  will, of course, be circumstances where there is overlap between the categories. In general,
  diffuse sources of pollution are more difficult to control than point sources, particularly where
  systems such as pit latrines and septic tanks are established.
           Spills of many chemicals found in urban areas (including petroleum and fuel oils) are
  also a source of contamination of both groundwaters and surface waters. The volatile compo-
  nents of petroleum oils may penetrate some types of plastic water pipes if these chemicals
  contaminate the ground surrounding the pipe. Choice of materials for water distribution
  should take into account such risks and should consider whether pipes are to be laid through
  contaminated ground.
                                                                                                                                                                 54
Table 6.1 | Chemicals derived from human settlements
Source               Activity or           Source                   Target               Chemicals              Remarks
category             hydrological event    description              water body           of concern

Point source         On-site sanitation    Sanitation facilities,   Surface waters       Nitrate, ammonia       Pit latrines of individual houses
                     and sewerage          including sewage         and groundwaters                            should also be taken into
                                           treatment plants                                                     account as diffuse point sources

                     Waste disposal        Waste disposal sites Mainly                   Nitrate, ammonia,      Past waste disposal sites are also important
                     (land reclamation)                         groundwater              other chemicals        sources of chemicals. Industrial waste is
                                                                                         contained in the waste a more important source of chemicals than
                                                                                         (in case of industrial domestic waste. Controlled waste disposal
                                                                                         waste disposal site) may also contaminate surface waters and
                                                                                                                groundwaters.

Diffuse point source Fuel storage          Fuel stands,             Mainly groundwater   Petroleum              Attention to both current and historical sites
                                           small industries, etc.                        hydrocarbons,          is necessary
                                                                                         benzene, ethylbenzene,
                                                                                         toluene and xylene

                     Chlorinated           Small industries,        Mainly groundwater   Trichloroethylene,     Attention to both current and historical sites
                     solvent use           cleaning shops, etc.                          tetrachloroethylene,   is necessary
                                                                                         trichloroethane

                     Pesticide application Roadside greens,         Groundwater and      Pesticides             Pesticide application to a drinking-water
                                           drinking-water           drinking-water                              storage tank leads directly to contamination
                                           storage tanks, etc.                                                  of drinking-water

                     Any other             Small industries,        Surface waters       Unspecified            This type of chemical contamination is very
                     urban activities      public facilities and    and groundwaters                            important where there are no adequate
                                           individual houses                                                    sewerage systems

Nonpoint source      Urban runoff          Roads, roofs, open       Surface waters       Nitrate, ammonia,      Deposits during a dry-weather period
                                           spaces and other         and groundwaters     heavy metals,          (e.g. atmospheric fallout of suspended
                                           sources relating                              pesticides, other      particulate matter) will be flushed out,
                                           to the activities                             organic chemicals      together with rainwater runoff
                                           as written above
                                                                     Chemicals from human settlements | 55




  6|2
  Data sources
  In addition to the general types of data sources discussed in other chapters, it may be useful
  to make enquiries with:
≥ water supply and wastewater agencies;
≥ local government and municipal authorities;
≥ environmental agencies.


  6|3
  Sewage systems and on-site sanitation
  In many cities and towns, a reticulated sewage system collects sewage from domestic prem-
  ises, public buildings and industrial premises. The sewage is carried to a central treatment
  works, where it undergoes a number of possible treatments that vary in their ability to break
  down or remove contaminants. The treated effluent is then discharged, often to a river. In
  most cases, the point of discharge will be below the city or town, but the impact of such efflu-
  ent on drinking-water abstracted downstream will depend on the efficiency of the treatment
  and the quality of the effluent. Indirect reuse of wastewater discharged to rivers or lakes,
  where it may undergo dilution and further natural purification, has been practised widely for
  many years. A range of contaminants may be present in wastewater, depending on the nature
  of the raw sewage and the efficiency of treatment, but these are likely to include nutrients
  such as nitrogen and phosphorus (unless there is specific treatment to remove nutrients).
  Many cities and towns on the coast discharge effluent to the sea – a process that does not
  impact on drinking-water. Less frequently, treated effluent may be used for groundwater
  recharge.
          Poorly maintained or damaged sewers that leak may also contaminate water
  resources. Where sewers run close to drinking-water mains there is a danger that more direct
  contamination through ingress into the water mains may occur. System failures may also lead
  to the discharge of untreated sewage into water bodies.
          Sewage treatment and many on-site facilities produce biosolids (sewage sludge).
  These may be used as a soil conditioner in agriculture or for other purposes, such as land
  reclamation. Biosolids that are not used for these purposes are disposed of in various ways,
  including by landfill. In some circumstances, the disposal of biosolids may give rise to leach-
  ing, particularly of nitrates. Where biosolids are heavily contaminated with industrial waste,
  such as heavy metals, these contaminants may also need to be considered.
          In settlements where there is little or no reticulated sewerage, human excrement is
  generally disposed of on-site through pit latrines, septic tanks or leach fields. When pit
  latrines and septic tanks are badly sited, constructed or maintained, they can contaminate
  local water supplies, particularly with nitrate. Nitrate concentrations in shallow groundwater
  commonly exceed drinking-water guidelines in areas with on-site sanitation (BGS, 2001). In
  some urban settings, other chemicals (including petroleum hydrocarbons, household chemi-
  cals and even solvents) may be disposed of through latrines, leading to localized water con-
  tamination problems from these chemicals.
56




    Box 6.1 summarizes the main risk factors associated with on-site sanitation and sewage systems.

    Box 6.1 | Risk factors – on-site sanitation and sewers

    Site suitability
    On-site sanitation systems are:
≥   used in the vicinity of a potable water supply
≥   located in the vicinity of a waterway
≥   located in an area where there is little soil cover and bedrock is exposed
≥   located near open wells, sinkholes or other features that allow direct access to the water table
≥   located where the water table is close to the surface (e.g. it can be readily exposed by a
    hole dug with a shovel at the end of the wet season).
    Sewer lines are installed below the water table.
    Composition of the waste
    The on-site sanitation system receives wastes from an industrial facility.
    Discharges to the sewerage system are unlicensed and unregulated.
    Operation and maintenance
    Treatment plants and pumping stations are operated without emergency storage facilities to
    cope with system breakdowns.
    Treatment plants are operated without ongoing monitoring of the quality of wastewater
    entering the plant.
    Sewer pipelines are operated without an ongoing regime of inspection and testing.


    6|4
    Waste disposal
    Household and general waste in some urban areas may be disposed of through uncontrolled
    dumping in vacant areas. In low-lying swampy areas, this form of disposal may be seen as a
    form of land reclamation. If this disposal is on land associated with surface water collection or
    groundwater recharge, the potential exists for various chemicals present in the waste to con-
    taminate the water resource. The decay of putrescible organic material within the waste gen-
    erates considerable amounts of leachate, which can easily percolate into groundwater, espe-
    cially in low-lying areas where the water table is shallow.
             In cities where urban waste is deposited in municipal landfills, there may be limited
    control over the type of waste deposited at a particular site. Where landfill sites are unlined or
    unconfined, leachate can potentially pollute groundwater and surface water. The leachate
    may contain a range of chemical contaminants, including high levels of phenols (which can
    give rise to significant taste and odour problems in drinking-water following chlorination),
    ammonia, nitrate and heavy metals. Depending on local hydrogeological conditions, a ground-
    water contamination plume from a waste disposal site may extend a considerable distance in
    the direction of groundwater flow from the site, and may affect the quality of groundwater
    over a large area.
             Box 6.2 summarizes the main risk factors associated with waste deposition.
                                                                        Chemicals from human settlements | 57




    Box 6.2 | Risk factors – waste deposition

    Site suitability
    Waste is deposited:
≥   near a source of potable water
≥   near a waterway that links to a source of potable water
≥   near open wells, sinkholes, or other features that allow leachate direct access to the water table
≥   in an area where there is little soil cover and/or bedrock is exposed
≥   where the water table is close to the surface (e.g. it can be readily exposed by a hole dug with
    a shovel at the end of the wet season).
    Composition of the waste
    The waste site receives wastes from one or more industrial facilities.
    Sewage or the contents of latrines is deposited at the site.
    Operation and maintenance
    Wastes have been deposited in an unregulated way with no form of containment or lining to
    the site.
    The site receives significant rainfall.


    6|5
    Urban runoff
    6| 5|1 General considerations
    Urban runoff will contain both chemical and microbial contaminants, the range and concen-
    trations of which can vary considerably over short periods of time. As the area of impermeable
    surfaces increases, the problem of stormwater collection and disposal becomes more signif-
    icant. The major sources of contamination of stormwater include substances deposited on
    impermeable surfaces from:
≥   motor vehicles (leakage of fuel, lead from exhaust where leaded petrol is still in use, metals
    from wearing parts and catalytic converters, and rubber and other substances from wear of
    tyres);
≥   atmospheric fallout of suspended particulate matter;
≥   salts used for de-icing;
≥   accidental and deliberate spills of industrial effluent into stormwater systems.

    6| 5| 2 Pathways of contamination by urban runoff
    Groundwater contamination is most likely where stormwater is discharged into soakaways
    (e.g. pits filled with rubble to speed transfer to groundwater) or infiltration areas, and where
    the aquifer is vulnerable. However, in many cases, stormwater is collected in the drainage sys-
    tem, which may discharge into sewers. Stormwater or (when sewer capacity is exceeded) a
    combination of stormwater and diluted raw sewage may be discharged into surface waters.
             Box 6.3 summarizes the main risk factors associated with urban runoff.
58




  Box 6.3 | Risk factors – disposal of urban runoff

  Site suitability
  Stormwater/urban runoff is discharged to ground close to a well used for potable water supply.
  Stormwater is discharged:
≥ to a surface water close to a potable water supply point
≥ into sinkholes or other features typical of limestone that link to groundwater used for
  drinking-water
≥ to a soakwell or infiltration basin where the water table is close to the surface.
  pH
  The pH of the stormwater is less than 4.5.


  6|6
  Fuel storage sites
  The leakage of fuels from large storage tanks is a significant source of groundwater contam-
  ination in some regions, particularly where the storage and handling of fuels is poor. Many oils
  can pool on the surface of aquifers, causing long-term contamination. The more volatile fuels
  (e.g. gasoline) contain compounds that will dissolve in water, in particular, the BTEX com-
  pounds – benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes. Unleaded gasoline may also contain
  oxygenated compounds that improve combustion. The most common of these is methyl tert-
  butyl ether (MTBE), which has caused significant contamination of groundwater in some
  countries, particularly the United States of America (USA), because of its high solubility in
  water and its slow degradation. MTBE is of concern for drinking-water because it has a very
  low taste and odour threshold. Other fuels (e.g. diesel) also contain water-soluble compo-
  nents, such as the trimethylbenzenes, which have a very low taste and odour threshold. Drink-
  ing-water contaminated with these fuels can be unacceptable to consumers.
           Many countries have introduced regulations for the construction of underground and
  overground fuel storage tanks and pipelines that will significantly reduce the risks associated
  with fuel. Relatively small leaks of a few litres per day may not be easily noticed but, over an
  extended period of time, can give rise to significant problems. Such leaks can also saturate
  soil, creating the potential for long-term contamination of groundwater.
           Box 6.4 summarizes the main risk factors associated with fuel leakages.

  Box 6.4 | Risk factors – fuel storage

  Fuels are stored in tanks, above or below ground, that are not of an appropriate standard to
  prevent leakage.
  Storage tanks are not checked for leaks and are not monitored to detect leaks.
  Water supply wells, including tubewells, are located close to fuel storage tanks or a site
  previously used for bulk fuel storage.
  Petrol or diesel-like odours have been reported by water consumers.
                                                                    Chemicals from human settlements | 59




6|7
Chlorinated solvents
A number of small chlorinated organic molecules, such as tri and tetrachloroethylene, are
used as solvents for metal degreasing and dry cleaning. These chemical compounds are only
sparingly soluble in water but are miscible with water. When discharged or spilt onto the
ground they rapidly soak through the soil and, where the aquifer is vulnerable to surface con-
tamination, they percolate through the ground to the aquifer. The rate of degradation of these
chemicals is extremely slow, and they have caused significant pollution of groundwater used
for drinking-water. In the past, waste solvents were disposed of into shallow pits, in the expec-
tation that they would evaporate. Although this practice is no longer common, it has resulted
in significant areas of historical pollution of groundwater dating back many decades. In some
cases, the subsequent development of the aquifer as a drinking-water source has resulted in
these chemicals being drawn to the groundwater abstraction point after an extended period
of pumping.
         Box 6.5 summarizes the main risk factors associated with chlorinated solvents.

Box 6.5 | Risk factors – chlorinated solvents

Groundwater is used for water supply in an urban area where chlorinated solvents are, or have
been, stored, used or disposed of.


6|8
Public health and vector control
Where public health agencies use pesticides for public health and vector control, it is most
appropriate to refer to the agency responsible for vector control, to determine which chemi-
cals are used and the management practices employed. Where the chemicals are applied in
circumstances that affect drinking-water either directly or indirectly, the likely impact needs to
be considered. However, there is a balance to be struck between the potential toxicity of the
pesticides and the risks from insectborne diseases.
        Herbicides are sometimes also used in urban areas for control of weeds on railway
lines and roadside verges, and around areas of hard standing. Some of the herbicides used
are sufficiently persistent to be able to be washed into drains or soil, and possibly percolate
into groundwater. One of the most common of these herbicides is atrazine, which has been
found in the groundwater of many countries. Awareness of the potential for contaminating
groundwater and careful selection of herbicides, where they are required, has significantly
decreased contamination in many of the areas where it was common.


6|9
References
BGS (British Geological Survey) (2001). Assessing risk to groundwater from on-site sanita-
tion, available online at http://bgs.uk/hydrogeology/argoss
7
Chemicals from
industrial activities
62
                                                                    Chemicals from industrial activities | 63




7|1
Introduction
In a catchment area, industries, particularly those involved in extraction, manufacturing and
processing, may be important in the assessment of chemical risks of drinking-water because
they can be the source of significant contamination.
        Mineral production is an important component of the economy for many countries,
and in some cases it can be the major source of international revenue. However, mining and
mineral production operations that are not well managed can contaminate groundwater and
surface water, and can adversely affect the health of nearby communities that rely on this
source for drinking-water or agriculture.
        Extractive industries include mining of mineral deposits (principally metal-bearing
ores and coal deposits), oil and natural gas production, and quarrying for building and road-
making materials. Poorly operated or abandoned mine sites are often significant sources of
water contamination; contaminants of particular health concern from these sources include
heavy metals, and mineral-processing chemicals, such as cyanide.
        Water pumped from abandoned mine shafts and open-cut pits is often used for water
supply. However, these water sources may sometimes be contaminated by mineral process-
ing chemicals, acid mine drainage (AMD) and waste disposal. These risks must be considered
and assessed to determine whether such water sources are safe to be used for drinking-
water supply.
        Manufacturing and processing industries are also a potential source of chemicals in
drinking-water. Assessment of the types and amounts of chemicals in the effluent discharged
from industrial sources should be used to make judgements on the possible chemicals that
could be present in receiving water used as a drinking-water source.
        It is sometimes difficult to identify all industrial sources in a catchment area because
there may be many small-scale industrial sources. In such a case, it is best to focus initially on
the major industrial areas according to effluent quantity and type. The types of manufacturing
and processing industries that are important from the aspect of drinking water contamination
include chemical, metal, textile dying, tannery, paper and pulp, electroplating and printed cir-
cuit board manufacturing. It is therefore desirable that these industrial sources be identified in
the target area.


7|2
Data sources
Information about the distribution and nature of extractive industries can often be obtained from
government agencies (principally mines departments or geological surveys), geology depart-
ments in universities, and specialist research institutes associated with the mining industry.
        Information about the location and nature of manufacturing and processing industries
can usually be obtained from environmental protection agencies, departments of trade and
industry associations (chambers of commerce, etc.). Information may also be available from
government departments or agencies that deal with natural resource management or envi-
ronmental protection issues.
64




    Where contaminated sites exist, information about historical industrial activities can often be
    obtained from environmental protection agencies. Such disused sites may continue to pollute
    drinking-water sources for many years or decades after the industry has closed down if resid-
    ual soil contamination at the site has not been cleaned up.
             Appendices 1 and 2 present information on industrial chemicals listed by industry and
    by chemical, respectively, and are both useful in identifying chemicals likely to be discharged
    from industrial sources. Appendix 2 should be used as a guide to identifying the interrelation
    between industrial activities and chemicals potentially discharged through effluents. This
    appendix uses a classification based on the United Nations Standard Industrial Classification
    (United Nations Statistics Division – Classifications Registry: Activity Classifications, ISIC
    Rev. 2). The information given in appendices 1 and 2 is extensive, but is not exhaustive and
    does not cover every possibility that may be encountered.


    7|3
    Extractive industries
    7| 3| 1 Extractive industry activities
    The activities of extractive industry include a number of phases that can have different impacts
    on water quality. Those typical of mining and oil/gas production are listed below.
≥   Exploration. Exploration for mineral and petroleum resources involves field surveys, drilling
    programmes and exploratory excavations. Some water contamination can be produced at this
    stage from land clearing; for example, if clearing exposes a layer with high content of heavy
    metals, leading to contamination of stormwater by the heavy metals and by waste disposal
    from exploration camps. Unfilled exploration boreholes can allow contaminants from the sur-
    face to be washed into groundwater without being attenuated in the soil profile.
≥   Project development. The development of a mining site and supporting infrastructure
    causes extensive land clearance. Also, groundwater and surface water contamination can be
    caused by spills and leaks from fuel storage tanks, and from waste disposal.
≥   Operation and production. The type of operations can include pumping from boreholes (oil
    and natural gas, solution mining), heap leaching of rock piles, underground mining, open cuts
    and surface edging. Oxidation and leaching of minerals from mining spoil and other waste
    products can contaminate groundwater and surface water.
≥   Beneficiation. Processing of minerals using a variety of mechanical and chemical treatment
    processes can be the most significant source of water contamination at a mine site. The
    major sources of contamination from mineral processing are leaks from storage ponds hold-
    ing processing liquors, and leakage from tailings dams used to separate and recover process-
    ing liquids from fine solid wastes.
≥   Closure. Closure and rehabilitation of a mine site to mitigate environmental impacts (e.g. sta-
    bilization and revegetation of waste rock and tailings) can contaminate groundwater if not
    well managed. Sources of contamination include continued seepage from waste rock and
    tailings if these are not well stabilized; salinization of groundwater by evaporation from aban-
    doned open pits and the excessive use of fertilizers in rehabilitation programmes.
                                                                                 Chemicals from industrial activities | 65




7| 3| 2 Effects of extractive industry on water quality
The type of water contamination produced by a mining operation depends to a large extent
on the nature of the mineralization and on the processing chemicals used to extract or con-
centrate minerals from the host rock.
         The water contaminants of most concern from extractive industries are summarized in
the Table 7.1.

Table 7.1 | Chemical contaminants of extractive industry wastewaters

Type of mine                 Wastewater generated        Characteristics                 Chemicals possibly
                                                         of wastewater                   contained

Open-cut and underground     Acidic mine drainage from   Low pH (< 4.5, possibly         Arsenic, antimony, barium,
mining of base metal         waste rock heaps; and       as low as 2) of water in        cadmium, chromium,
sulfide deposits, precious   residues from ammonium      springs, seeps, open cuts       cobalt, fluoride, lead,
metal deposits or uranium    nitrate–fuel oil (ANFO)     and streams draining from       mercury, molybdenum,
deposits with sulfide        explosive used for rock     the mine site. Extensive        nickel, nitrate, selenium,
minerals, sulfide-rich       blasting                    vegetation death, yellow or     sulfate, uranium
heavy mineral sands,                                     white salt crusts on the soil   (radon may be of concern
coal deposits                                            surface, pale blue cloudy       where there are high
                                                         appearance of surface           uranium concentrations)
                                                         water

Base metal and precious      Flotation agents used to                                    Depends on the type of
metal deposits               concentrate minerals from                                   mineralization
                             ore; the main sources of                                    – contaminants from
                             contamination are seepage                                   flotation agents of health
                             from processing mills and                                   concern include chromium,
                             tailings dams                                               cresols, cyanide compounds,
                                                                                         phenols and xanthates

Gold deposits                Chemicals used to extract High pH of water                  Arsenic, free cyanide,
                             gold from ore (cyanide and (up to pH 10) when               weak acid dissociable
                             mercury), particularly from cyanide is used                 cyanide, mercury
                             tailings dams

Uranium deposits             Acid leaching (especially   Low pH of water, high           Arsenic, antimony, barium,
                             sulfuric acid) used to      sulfate concentrations in       cadmium, chromium,
                             extract uranium from ore    water                           cobalt, fluoride, lead,
                                                                                         mercury, molybdenum,
                                                                                         nickel, radon, selenium,
                                                                                         sulfate, uranium

Petroleum                    Disposal of brines        High salinity of water,   Boron, fluoride,
and natural gas              associated with petroleum high concentrations of    hydrocarbons, uranium
                             hydrocarbons              hydrogen sulfide, methane
                                                       or detectable hydrocarbon
                                                       odours in water



AMD is probably the most severe environmental problem that occurs on mine sites. It happens
where mineral and coal deposits contain sulfide minerals, particularly pyrite (FeS2). When
waste rock containing sulfides is exposed to air, these minerals are oxidized, releasing sulfuric
acid. The process is accelerated by bacteria such as Thiobacillus ferrooxidans that obtain
energy from the oxidation reaction for their growth. The release of acid can cause the pH of
66




  surface water and groundwater to become very low (as low as 2). Under these very acidic con-
  ditions, metal concentrations in water can become very high due to the dissolution of elements
  from waste rock. Acidic water at mine sites often kills vegetation, and may cause fish deaths in
  rivers. Apart from low pH, visual indicators of AMD at mine sites include the following:
≥ There are large areas where vegetation has died due to acidic runoff and shallow acidic
  groundwater.
≥ Abundant yellow or white salt crusts are present on waste rock and at the surface of the soil.
  The crusts comprise alum-like sulfate minerals containing variable amounts of sodium, potas-
  sium, iron and aluminium, such as the mineral jarosite. They are often very soluble in water,
  releasing acid and precipitating ferric hydroxides.
≥ Surface water bodies on the mine sites often appear to have a milky or cloudy blue-white
  appearance due to the presence of flocs of aluminium hydroxide. If the water is extremely
  acidic (< pH 3), it may appear to be crystal clear due to the precipitation of the flocs.
           Of the chemicals used to process ores, cyanide may be the most problematic due to its
  toxicity and the complexity of its chemical behaviour in groundwater. Cyanide degrades rapidly
  into nontoxic chemical compounds when exposed to air and sunlight, but in groundwater it may
  persist for long periods with little or no degradation. Cyanide (usually in the form of potassium or
  sodium cyanide) is used to extract gold from its ore, but in the subsurface it can react with miner-
  als in soil and rock to form a wide range of metal cyanide complexes, many of which are very toxic.
           Abandoned pits and mine shafts are commonly used for water supply after mine clo-
  sure. Depending on the type of mining activity, water from these sources could pose a risk to
  human health from high dissolved metal or cyanide concentrations.

    7| 3| 3 Risk factor checklist
    Box 7.1 summarizes the main risk factors associated with chemicals derived from extractive
    industries.

    Box 7.1 | Risk factors – extractive industries

    Site suitability
    Industries are located within close proximity of:
≥   a potable water source
≥   a waterway.
    Water from abandoned mine shafts and pits is being used as a source of drinking-water.
    Effluent discharge
    Discharges to receiving water or onto the ground:
≥   are unlicensed and unregulated
≥   take place without reference to effluent acceptance criteria.
    There are no effluent treatment facilities.
                                                                      Chemicals from industrial activities | 67




    Industrial operation
    Chemicals, including floating agents, are used for operation and maintenance.
    Acid leaching of ore is carried out.
    Solid wastes are disposed of at the site.
    Operation and maintenance of an on-site treatment facility
    Effluent treatment facilities are operated without emergency storage facilities to cope with
    system breakdown.


    7|4
    Manufacturing and processing industries
    7| 4| 1 Initial indicators
    Industrial pollution might be suspected if a water source exhibits any of the following physical
    properties:
≥   strong chemical odours (often similar to phenolic disinfectant), like petrol, or sharp and acrid
    (irritate the back of the nose or throat);
≥   colours unexplained by iron or manganese tests;
≥   reports of bitter or metallic tastes not explained by iron or manganese tests;
≥   persistent foaming on the water surface;
≥   a multicoloured, iridescent sheen on the water surface that does not break up when prodded
    with a stick;
≥   any other unusual appearance.

    7| 4| 2 Developing an inventory
    A variety of chemicals used or produced in industrial processes may be harmful to human
    health if released into drinking-water sources. Chemicals likely to be in a particular watershed
    may be identified by developing inventories of the industrial processes undertaken in the
    catchment. An inventory for each industrial source should include the following information:
≥   type of industry;
≥   year of the start of operation and historical development;
≥   occupied land area and number of employees;
≥   amount and nature of raw materials, final products and by-products;
≥   industrial processes employed;
≥   amount of water used;
≥   amount and nature of wastewater generated;
≥   details of water receiving the effluent;
≥   amount and nature of solid wastes;
≥   solid waste disposal.
68




  7| 4| 3 Assessing the impact
  When assessing the impact of industrial discharges on receiving waters, the most critical
  characteristics are:
≥ the types of chemicals discharged – this depends on the type of industries and processes used;
≥ the amount and concentration of chemicals in the effluent – these vary over time depending
  on the operation mode of both manufacturing and wastewater treatment processes employed
  (e.g. hourly, daily, weekly, monthly and seasonal variations).
           Solid wastes and/or gaseous emissions generated from industrial sources also con-
  tribute to the amount and concentration of chemicals in the effluent if they are treated with
  water or they have any contact with water.

    7| 4| 4 Site inspection
    Section 7.2 (above) discusses data sources for information on types of chemicals used and
    the amount discharged to the environment. Additional information can be obtained through a
    site inspection, which is a very useful and effective tool for augmenting and strengthening the
    information gained from compiling a source inventory.
             Collecting site information is very important because chemicals could be used and
    discharged from industrial sources other than those specified in appendices 1 and 2. For
    example, a battery-manufacturing industry could be the source of metals such as mercury,
    cadmium, lead, nickel, manganese, iron, copper and lithium. Certain chemicals listed in the
    appendices are widely used in industries; for example, degreasing agents (organic solvents)
    such as dichloromethane, 1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,2-
    dichloroethene, trichloroethene and tetrachloroethene. Moreover, effluents from recycling
    industries contain a variety of chemicals depending on the type of raw and final products.
             Important issues to be noted in a site inspection in the context of water safety are:
≥   amount of chemicals used and their fates in industrial processes;
≥   water use and its quantity;
≥   sanitary conditions of the facility;
≥   wastewater treatment processes, and their effectiveness.
             Industrial sources may represent a potential risk from chemical spills. On-site waste-
    water treatment facilities should be checked for:
≥   capacity;
≥   treatment processes employed;
≥   chemicals used;
≥   amount and nature of sludge generated;
≥   effluent monitoring practice and results;
≥   operation records;
≥   personnel engaged in the operation of the facilities.
             If gaseous emissions are treated with water, the disposal of the wastewater gener-
    ated, together with its quantity and quality, should be considered. Solid wastes or sludge con-
    taining chemicals deposited onto land may contaminate groundwater (through seepage) and
                                                                      Chemicals from industrial activities | 69




    receiving water (through surface water runoff of rainfall). If solid wastes or sludge are dis-
    posed at points remote from the source, their sites should also be assessed. More details on
    solid wastes are given in Section 6.4.

    7| 4| 5 Risk factor checklist
    Box 7.2 summarizes the main chemical risks associated with manufacturing and processing
    industries.

    Box 7.2 | Risk factors – manufacturing and processing industries

    Site suitability
    Industries are located close to:
≥   a potable water source
≥   a waterway.
    Effluent discharge
    Discharges to receiving water or onto the ground:
≥   are unlicensed and unregulated
≥   take place without reference to effluent acceptance criteria.
    There are no effluent treatment facilities.
    Industrial operation
    Chemicals are used for operation and maintenance.
    Water is used for purposes other than indirect cooling.
    Solid wastes are disposed of at the site.
    Exhausted gas is washed with water before emission.
    Operation and maintenance of an on-site treatment facility
    Effluent treatment facilities are operated without emergency storage facilities to cope with
    system breakdown.


    7| 4| 6 Pathway considerations
    Section 2.3 (see Chapter 2) sets out the general principles of concentration changes as a
    chemical travels from source to consumer. It may be useful to refer to Section 2.3 before
    deciding, on the basis of pathway considerations, which chemicals are likely to reach the
    consumer.
             Depending on their persistence, chemicals discharged through the effluent from
    industrial sources to a surface water body may reach an intake of a drinking-water supply. The
    chemicals accumulate in the bottom sediment of a water body, and may be flushed out in the
    event of high water flow. Industrial effluents that are discharged into the ground can also con-
    taminate a groundwater source used as a drinking-water supply.
70




          The presence of industrial chemicals in a water source does not necessarily indicate
 that they will be present in treated drinking-water. The extent to which chemicals will be
 removed before the water reaches the consumer will depend on the nature of the contamina-
 tion and the type of treatment processes used. However, many industrial chemicals are toxic
 at relatively low concentrations, and water polluted by industrial activities often contains a
 number of different toxic chemicals. It is therefore important to identify and assess the risk
 posed by all the potential chemicals in a polluted water source.


 7|5
 Reference
 United Nations Statistics Division – Classifications Registry: Activity Classifications, ISIC Rev. 2,
 http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/regcst.asp?Cl=8&Lg=1
Chemicals from industrial activities | 71
8
Chemicals from
water treatment
and distribution
74
                                                           Chemicals from water treatment and distribution | 75




  8|1
  Introduction
  Chemicals from water treatment and distribution reach drinking-water by the most direct
  route. They fall into three broad categories:
≥ substances resulting from the addition of chemicals used in the treatment process for coag-
  ulation and disinfection – these chemicals are intentionally added and can give rise to
  residues or by-products;
≥ disinfectants that are deliberately added with the intention of maintaining a residual in distri-
  bution, usually to the tap – these chemicals may also give rise to by-products;
≥ substances that leach from materials used in distribution or plumbing, or that arise from the
  corrosion of pipes.
          The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) cover a
  significant number of potential substances from water treatment or distribution (summarized
  in Table 8.1). It is important that water supply agencies properly manage any chemicals that
  they use. In many cases, the best method of control is through management practices, such
  as optimization of the treatment process, and regulation of materials and chemicals that come
  into contact with drinking-water, rather than through monitoring and chemical analysis.
          This chapter gives guidance on the importance of potential chemicals derived from
  water treatment or distribution, from a management perspective.


  8|2
  Chemicals used in treatment
  8| 2| 1 Disinfectants and disinfection by-products
  The three chemicals most commonly used as primary disinfectants are chlorine, chlorine diox-
  ide and ozone. Monochloramine, usually referred to as chloramine, is used as a residual disin-
  fectant for distribution.
≥ Chlorine
  Chlorine is the most widely used primary disinfectant and is also often used to provide resid-
  ual disinfection in the distribution system. Monitoring the level of chlorine in drinking-water
  entering a distribution system is normally considered to be a high priority (if it is possible),
  because the monitoring is used as an indicator that disinfection has taken place. Residual
  concentrations of chlorine of above about 0.6 mg/L or more may cause problems of accept-
  ability for some consumers on the basis of taste, depending on local circumstances. Monitor-
  ing free chlorine at different points in the distribution system is sometimes used to check that
  there is not an excessive chlorine demand in distribution that may indicate other problems in
  the system, such as ingress of contamination.
           Chlorine is applied in a number of forms from chlorine gas to hypochlorite solution. It is
  important that the source of chlorine is not contaminated. For example, chlorine gas has been
  found to be contaminated with carbon tetrachloride, hypochlorite that is stored for a long time
  gradually breaks down to give chlorate, and hypochlorite generated electrolytically from sea-
  water or brine with a high bromide content can have high concentrations of bromate.
76




            Chlorine reacts with naturally occurring organic matter in raw water to form a range of
  unwanted by-products. Guideline values have been established for a number of these by-
  products. The compounds most widely considered as representatives of chlorination by-prod-
  ucts for the purposes of setting standards and monitoring are the trihalomethanes (THMs)
  which include chloroform, bromodichloromethane, chlorodibromomethane and bromoform.
            Haloacetic acids (HAAs), monochloroacetate, dichloroacetate and trichloroacetate,
  can also be formed as the result of reaction of chlorine with organic matter contained in raw
  water. Some countries monitor HAAs as well as THMs, but HAAs are much more difficult and
  expensive to analyse than THMs.
            THMs and HAAs continue to develop within the distribution system; thus, monitoring
  can be complex. Optimizing coagulation and filtration is most important in helping to remove
  the precursors of these by-products and will, in turn, reduce the formation of THMs, HAAs
  and other unwanted by-products.
            In order to ensure the microbial safety of drinking-water, disinfection should never be
  compromised in trying to meet guidelines for any disinfection by-products.
≥ Chlorine dioxide
  Chlorine dioxide breaks down to leave the inorganic chemicals chlorite and chlorate. These
  are best managed by controlling the dose of chlorine dioxide applied to the water. Chlorate
  can also be found in hypochlorite solution that has been allowed to age. There is no guideline
  value for chlorate because of limited data on its toxicology, but this chemical has been shown
  to be less toxic than chlorite and is present at lower concentrations. Controlling chlorite will
  generally also adequately control chlorate.
≥ Ozone
  Ozone, used as a primary disinfectant, cannot be monitored in drinking-water, because it
  leaves no residual. Ozonation in the presence of inorganic bromide, which can occur naturally
  in raw water, can give rise to low concentrations of bromate. The analysis of bromate is diffi-
  cult and expensive, because a number of other inorganic substances that interfere with the
  analysis may be present. It is considered, therefore, that routine bromate monitoring is a low
  priority, and that management should instead involve controlling the conditions of ozonation.
≥ Monochloramine
  Monochloramine, used as a residual disinfectant for distribution, is usually formed from the
  reaction of chlorine with ammonia. Careful control of monochloramine formation in water
  treatment is important to avoid the formation of di- and trichloramines, because these can
  cause unacceptable tastes and odours. The formation of nitrite as a consequence of micro-
  bial activity in biofilms in the distribution system is a possibility when monochloramine is used
  as a residual disinfectant, particularly if ammonia levels are not sufficiently controlled.

  8| 2| 2 Coagulants
  Coagulation and flocculation are important barriers to microbiological contaminants and are
  key processes for reducing naturally occurring organic matter and turbidity, which can seriously
  affect the efficiency of disinfection. Chemicals used as coagulants in drinking-water treatment
  include aluminium and iron salts, such as aluminium sulfate, polyaluminium chloride or ferric
  sulfate. No health-based guideline values have been set for aluminium and iron, because neither
                                                        Chemicals from water treatment and distribution | 77




is considered to be of significance to health when used under normal circumstances in water
treatment. However, both substances can give rise to problems of discolouration and deposition
of sediment in distribution if present in excessive amounts. The concentrations in drinking-water
above which problems are likely to occur are 0.3 mg/L for iron and 0.2 mg/L for aluminium. This
concentration of aluminium should be achievable by any water treatment works, but a well-run
large treatment works should be able to achieve a routine average residual value of 0.1 mg/L.
         The best management strategy for both aluminium and iron when used in treatment is to
ensure that coagulation is optimized to prevent excessive amounts remaining in the drinking-water.
         Sometimes organic polymers, known as coagulant aids, are used to assist with coag-
ulation. These polymers may contain residual acrylamide or epichlorohydrin monomers. Mon-
itoring for these chemicals in drinking-water is not normally appropriate, because measure-
ment in water is very difficult. Instead, these chemicals are managed by specifying a maximum
amount of residual monomer in the polymer and a maximum concentration of polymer that
can be added to the treatment process. The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
(WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) give additional guidance on the approval and control of chemicals
and materials in contact with drinking-water. They also cover the need to ensure that any
chemicals used in water treatment do not contain contaminants that could be of concern for
drinking-water quality.

8|3
Other chemicals and materials used in water treatment
A number of other chemicals may be added in treatment. These include substances such as
sodium hydroxide for adjusting pH and, in certain circumstances, chemicals for fluoridation of
drinking-water. In all cases it is appropriate to specify the quality of the chemicals added so
that the final water does not contain unacceptable concentrations of unwanted contaminants.
Ensuring that chemicals used are of an appropriate quality is generally best managed by
product specification rather than by monitoring drinking-water. The WHO Guidelines for
Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) have a section on approval and control of
chemicals and materials for use in contact with drinking-water that provides guidance on
product specification.
        Ion-exchange resins and more advanced treatment processes based on membranes
are increasingly used in drinking-water treatment. It is possible that chemicals can leach from
the materials used in the manufacture of these systems; therefore, these too should be man-
aged by appropriate product and materials specifications.

8|4
Distribution systems
The most widely used metal for pipes and fittings in distribution systems is iron, which may
give rise to corrosion products. These products can cause discolouration at the tap if the dis-
tribution system is not managed correctly. Monitoring for corrosion products is not appropriate;
instead, it is necessary to manage the problem of corrosion and the accumulation of corrosion
products in distribution. In some circumstances, iron hand pumps can give rise to discoloured
water if they are corroded by water that is too acidic. In such cases, it may be appropriate to
78




 screen the raw water for low pH and, where a low pH is detected, consider using alternative
 materials for the pumps. The corrosivity of water is a function of many factors, including pH,
 low alkalinity, chloride and sulfate ions, sediment and microbial activity; this topic is covered in
 more detail in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006).
          Lead, copper and sometimes zinc may be present in drinking-water, as a consequence
 of the use of these metals in pipework in public, commercial and domestic buildings. Monitoring
 is complicated by the fact that both occurrence and concentration will vary from building to build-
 ing and at different times of the day. Concentrations will usually be greater the longer the water is
 standing in the pipe, so first-draw water will usually have higher levels than water from a fully
 flushed system. Copper and zinc are less likely than lead to occur at levels of concern, except in
 very new buildings or where highly corrosive water is supplied; however, concentrations may be
 increased in some circumstances when copper piping is used as a means of earthing the electri-
 cal system in a building. Lead frequently occurs at concentrations greater than the guideline value
 in situations where lead pipes and solders are present. Lead is also a component of brass, bronze
 and gun-metal, which are used in fittings in plumbing systems. In some circumstances, fittings
 made of these metals can be a significant contributor to the concentrations of lead at the tap.
          Monitoring of metals in water arising from plumbing is difficult because of variations
 in concentration with time and the fact that the levels are frequently property specific. Where
 lead pipes are present in a large number of buildings, the most important requirements are
 public health surveillance (to ensure that there is no significant public health problem) and
 identification of the buildings that have lead piping. Consideration of lead in drinking-water
 should be part of an overall lead-reduction strategy, because lead exposure from other
 sources may be more significant. There are a number of possible approaches to reducing lead
 levels in drinking-water, ranging from targeted replacement of lead pipes to central control of
 corrosion to reduce the possibility that lead will dissolve in water.
          Lead can also be present if lead solder is used in the installation of copper piping. A
 control measure in this case would normally be to avoid the use of lead solders for applica-
 tions involving drinking-water.
          Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe is also widely used in distribution systems. Lead
 has been used as a stabilizer in unplasticized PVC pipe, and may give rise to elevated lead lev-
 els in drinking-water for a time after a new installation. Such pipe is normally of large diame-
 ter; thus, the dilution effect of the water flowing through the pipe will reduce the concentra-
 tion of lead and may result in lead concentrations below the guideline value. There have been
 cases where the levels of vinyl chloride monomer remaining in the plastic have been higher
 than desirable. However, chemical monitoring of drinking-water is not normally considered to
 be appropriate and the most suitable method of management is by product specification, as
 indicated above for other materials.

 8|5
 References
 WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
 WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed., Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
 WHO (2006). Health Aspects of Plumbing, , World Health Organization, Geneva.
                                                                 Chemicals from water treatment and distribution | 79




Table 8.1 | Suggested risk management strategies for chemicals from water
production and distribution

Chemical                    Monitoring approach         Management and control strategies

Coagulants:
Aluminium                   Verification*               Above 0.2 mg/L can cause problems of dirty water.
                                                        Controlled by treatment optimization
Iron                        Verification*               Above 0.3 mg/l can cause problems of dirty water,
                                                        Controlled by treatment optimization
Coagulant aids:
Acrylamide                  None                        Addressed by product specification
Epichlorohydrin             None                        Addressed by product specification
Treatment chemicals
Disinfectants:
Ozone                       None                        Levels controlled through dose optimization
Chlorine                    Indicator of operational    Critical for good disinfection.
                            effectiveness of            Post-treatment monitoring required to ensure
                            disinfection                adequate disinfection.
Chlorine dioxide            Verification*, together     Controlled through dose optimization
                            with monitoring of
                            chlorite and chlorate
Monochloramine              Verification*               Managed by ensuring correct ammonia dose and
                                                        operating conditions
Chlorination by-products
Trihalomethanes             Verification*               Managed by ensuring correct ammonia dose and
                                                        operating conditions
All other chlorination      Possibly verification       Controlled by optimization of coagulation and filtration
by-products                 for haloacetic acids        to remove precursor substances.
                            (HAAs) only
Chlorite/chlorate           Verification*               Levels controlled by optimization of chlorine dioxide
                                                        dose. Managed by correct storage of hypochlorite and
                                                        minimizing storage time.
Bromate                     Verification*               Controlled by optimization of ozonation conditions.
                                                        Managed by due care in selection of brine for
                                                        electrolytic generation of hypochlorite.
Nitrite                     None                        Managed by ensuring correct ammonia dose and
                                                        operating conditions
Pipe materials
Iron                        None                        Managed by corrosion inspection
Lead                        Part of broader public      Important for consideration. Managed by inspection
                            health investigation        and investigation of pipework in buildings
Copper                      Part of broader             Pipework in buildings not usually a problem unless
                            investigation of water      very aggressive water.
                            quality in buildings        Managed by inspection.
Zinc                        Part of broader             Galvanized pipes in buildings.
                            investigation of water      Managed by inspection
                            quality in buildings
Vinyl chloride              None                        Managed by ensuring correct product specification of
                                                        polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe



* Verification in this context is the use of analysis to verify that the control and management systems are
working and does not imply routine monitoring.
C
Appendices
appendix   1
Potential sources and
uses of chemicals
considered in the WHO
Guidelines for
Drinking-water Quality
84
            Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 85




This appendix lists the chemicals considered in the third edition of the WHO Guidelines for
Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) and their primary sources. Table A1.1 cov-
ers chemicals considered for a health-based guideline value (in cases where a health-based
value was not considered to be appropriate, no value was assigned). Table A1.2 covers chem-
icals that affect the acceptability of drinking-water. The values given in Tables A1.1 and A1.2
are only guides – local circumstances need to be considered when determining national or
local standards, or when assessing priorities for action (including monitoring). The WHO
Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006) give more detailed information
on the individual chemicals, which may be helpful in setting standards or assessing priorities.
          Tables A1.1 and A1.2 also list the major uses of each chemical and the specific indus-
tries that may discharge the chemical (classified by the United Nations (UN) industry/process
code numbers, details of which are given in Appendix 2). The lists are not comprehensive,
because there may be considerable variation in the uses of chemicals by individual industries
in different countries and regions. However, the information given may be useful to water
authorities and related agencies when preparing an inventory of potential chemical contami-
nants within a catchment. Some of the uses listed may be very minor, but are nevertheless
included in the list because it is not clear that they can be ignored when assessing the poten-
tial for contamination from industrial sources.
          Pesticides, which may also arise from industrial sources when the pesticides are man-
ufactured or formulated, are covered in Appendix 3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       86

Table A1.1 | Chemicals considered for health-based guideline values *
* In some cases, substances were considered but no guideline value was proposed, because a health-based guideline was not considered appropriate.




                                                                                                    Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (UN industry/
                                 Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                   process code
                                 (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                      numbers, as
                                 otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                         shown in




                                                    Naturally occurring
                                                                          Agricultural activities
                                                                                                     Human settlements a
                                                                                                                           Industries
                                                                                                                                        Production and distribution
Chemical                         specified)                                                                                                                           Major use(s)                                                 Appendix 2)

Acrylamide b                     0.5                                                                                       X            X                             Chemical intermediate; monomer in the production of
                                                                                                                                                                      polyacrylamide; production of flocculants; grouting agents 3511, 3513, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 354, 4

Alachlor                         20                                       X                                                X                                          Pre- or early post-emergence herbicides to control annual
                                                                                                                                                                      grasses and broad-leaved weeds                            111, 3512

Aldicarb                         10                                       X                                                X                                          Insecticides to control nematodes in soil and insects and
                                                                                                                                                                      mites on a wide variety of crops                             111, 3512

Aldrin and dieldrin              0.03                                     X                                                X                                          Insecticides for termite control                             111, 3512

Antimony                         20                 X                                                                      X            X                             Semiconductor alloy; batteries; antifriction compounds;      23, 3210, 342,
                                                                                                                                                                      ammunition; cable sheathing; flameproofing compounds;        3512, 3522, 361,
                                                                                                                                                                      ceramics; glass; pottery; type castings for commercial       362, 372, 38, 932
                                                                                                                                                                      printing; solder alloys; fireworks; treatment of parasitic
                                                                                                                                                                      diseases; pesticides
                                                                                                     Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (UN industry/
                                 Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                    process code
                                 (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                       numbers, as
                                 otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                          shown in




                                                     Naturally occurring
                                                                           Agricultural activities
                                                                                                      Human settlements a
                                                                                                                            Industries
                                                                                                                                         Production and distribution
Chemical                         specified)                                                                                                                            Major use(s)                                                 Appendix 2)

Aromatic hydrocarbons (see benzene, toluene, xylenes, ethylbenzene, styrene)

Arsenic                          10 d                X                                                                      X                                          Alloying agents in the manufacture of transistors, lasers,   111, 12, 23, 3121,
                                                                                                                                                                       and semiconductors; processing of glass, pigments,           32, 341, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                       textiles, paper, metal adhesives, wood preservatives and     3521, 3522, 362,
                                                                                                                                                                       ammunition; hide tanning process; pesticides; feed           372, 38
                                                                                                                                                                       additives; pharmaceuticals

Atrazine                         2                                         X                           X                    X                                          Pre- and post-emergence herbicides for the control           111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                                       of weeds

Barium                           700                 X                                                                      X                                          Plastics; rubber; electronics; ceramic glazes and enamels;   22, 23, 341, 3513,
                                                                                                                                                                       glass-making; brick-making; paper-making; lubricant          3521, 3522, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                       additive; pharmaceuticals and cosmetics; case-hardening      355, 362, 3691,
                                                                                                                                                                       of steel; oil and gas industries as a wetting agent          372, 38
                                                                                                                                                                       for drilling mud

Bentazone f                                                                X                                                X                                          Herbicides used in winter and spring cereals                 111, 3512

Benzene                          10                                                                    X                    X                                          For the production of styrene/ethylbenzene, cumene/phenol, 3511, 3521, 353,
                                                                                                                                                                       and cyclohexane; as a solvent; as an additive in petrol    354,
                                                                                                                                                                       to increase the octane number

Benzo[a]pyrene                   0.7                                                                                        X            X                             Incomplete combustion of organic material, forest fires      37, 4101, 7
                                                                                                                                                                       and volcanic eruptions; incomplete combustion of fossil
                                                                                                                                                                       fuels, coke oven emissions, aluminium smelters,
                                                                                                                                                                       vehicle exhausts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                88
                                                                                         Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (UN industry/
                       Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                      process code
                       (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                         numbers, as
                       otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                            shown in




                                         Naturally occurring
                                                               Agricultural activities
                                                                                          Human settlements a
                                                                                                                Industries
                                                                                                                             Production and distribution
Chemical               specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                     Appendix 2)
            f
Beryllium                                X                                                                      X                                          Specialized metal working and alloys such as munitions

Boron e                500               X                                                 X                    X                                          High-temperature abrasives; special-purpose alloys;              111, 12, 23, 323,
                                                                                                                                                           steel-making; catalysts in the manufacture of magnesium          3512, 3522, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                           alloy products; metal refining; control of heavy metal           362, 37, 932
                                                                                                                                                           discharges in wastewater; jet and rocket fuels; glass
                                                                                                                                                           manufacture; wood and leather preservation; flame
                                                                                                                                                           retardants; cosmetic products; neutron absorbers; mild
                                                                                                                                                           antiseptics or bacteriostats in eyewashes; mouthwashes;
                                                                                                                                                           burn dressings; nappy rash powders; cleaning compounds;
                                                                                                                                                           agricultural fertilizers; algicides; herbicides; insecticides

Bromate e              10                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); permanent wave neutralizing     3112, 3114, 3116,
                                                                                                                                                           solutions; flour maturing agent; dough conditioning agent; 3133, 3529, 92
                                                                                                                                                           fish paste; beer and cheese

Bromodichloromethane   60                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); laboratory reagents; chemical         23, 3511, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                           intermediates for the synthesis of organic compounds;            354
                                                                                                                                                           fluids for mineral ore separation; solvent for fats, waxes
                                                                                                                                                           and resins; flame retardants

Bromoform              100                                                                                      X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); laboratory reagents; chemical         23, 3511, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                           intermediates for the synthesis of organic compounds;            354, 932
                                                                                                                                                           fluids for mineral ore separation; solvent for fats, waxes and
                                                                                                                                                           resins; flame retardants; sedative and cough suppressant
                                                                                                       Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (UN industry/
                                   Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                     process code
                                   (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                        numbers, as
                                   otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                           shown in




                                                       Naturally occurring
                                                                             Agricultural activities
                                                                                                        Human settlements a
                                                                                                                              Industries
                                                                                                                                           Production and distribution
Chemical                           specified)                                                                                                                            Major use(s)                                                  Appendix 2)

Cadmium                            3                   X                                                                      X                                          Anticorrosive; electroplated steel; pigments in plastics;     23, 3522, 372, 38
                                                                                                                                                                         electric batteries; electronic components; nuclear reactors

Carbofuran                         7                                         X                                                X                                          Systemic acaricides; insecticides; nematicides                111, 3512

Carbon tetrachloride               4                                                                     X                    X                                          Production of chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants and foam-       111, 351, 3521,
                                                                                                                                                                         blowing agents; solvents; manufacture of paints and           354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                         plastics; metal cleaning solvent; fumigants

Chloral hydratef                                                                                                              X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); sedative and hypnotic in human 3522, 3529, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                         and veterinary medicine                                   932

Chlorate                           700 d                                                                                      X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); preparation of chlorine dioxide;   111, 3529
                                                                                                                                                                         manufacture of dyes, matches and explosives; tanning and
                                                                                                                                                                         finishing leather; herbicides and defoliants

Chlordane                          0.2                                       X                                                X                                          Versatile, broad-spectrum contact insecticides for            3512, 354
                                                                                                                                                                         non-agricultural purposes

Chlorinated acetate (see monochloroacetate, dichloroacetate, trichloroacetate, chloral hydrate)

Chlorinated alkanes (see carbon tetrachloride, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane)

Chlorinated benzenes (see monochlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, trichlorobenzene) f

Chlorinated ethenes (see vinyl chloride, 1,1-dichloroethene, 1,2-dichloroethene, trichloroethene, tetrachloroethene)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             90
                                                                                                     Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (UN industry/
                                  Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                       process code
                                  (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                          numbers, as
                                  otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                             shown in




                                                     Naturally occurring
                                                                           Agricultural activities
                                                                                                      Human settlements a
                                                                                                                            Industries
                                                                                                                                         Production and distribution
Chemical                          specified)                                                                                                                           Major use(s)                                                     Appendix 2)
           c
Chlorine                          5 mg/L                                                                                    X            X                             Disinfectants and bleach for domestic and industrial             31, 3511, 3529, 4,
                                                                                                                                                                       purposes; disinfection of drinking-water and                     94
                                                                                                                                                                       swimming pools; control of bacteria and odours
                                                                                                                                                                       in the food industry

Chlorite                          700 d                                                                                     X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); on-site production of chlorine        3529
                                                                                                                                                                       dioxide; bleaching agent in the production of paper, textiles,
                                                                                                                                                                       and straw products; manufacture of waxes, shellacs
                                                                                                                                                                       and varnishes

Chloroform                        300                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); production of                         111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                       chlorodifluoromethane (refrigerant); extraction solvent for      3529, 354, 932
                                                                                                                                                                       resins, gums and other products; fumigants; anaesthetic

Chlorophenols (see 2-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol)

Chlorotoluron                     30                                       X                                                X                                          Pre- and post-emergence herbicides                               111, 3512

Chlorpyrifos                      30                                       X                                                X                                          Acaricides; insecticides; nematicides                            111, 3512

Chromium                          50 d               X                                                                      X                                          The leather tanning industry; manufacture of catalysts;          111, 23, 3231,
                                                                                                                                                                       pigments and paints; fungicides; the ceramics and glass          3512, 3521, 3522,
                                                                                                                                                                       industries; photography; chrome alloy; chromium metal            361, 362, 372, 38,
                                                                                                                                                                       production; chrome plating; corrosion control                    94
                                                                                              Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (UN industry/
                            Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                      process code
                            (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                         numbers, as
                            otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                            shown in




                                              Naturally occurring
                                                                    Agricultural activities
                                                                                               Human settlements a
                                                                                                                     Industries
                                                                                                                                  Production and distribution
Chemical                    specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                     Appendix 2)

Copper                      2 mg/L                                                              X                    X            X                             Water pipes; roof coverings; household goods; chemical           111, 23, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                equipment; the arts; alloys; pest control; inorganic dyes;       3522, 3529, 372,
                                                                                                                                                                feed additives; photography; seed disinfectants; fungicides;     4, 94
                                                                                                                                                                algicides; electroforming

Cyanazine                   0.6                                     X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                       111, 3512

Cyanide                     70                X                                                                      X                                          Electroplating                                                   371, 38, 41

Cyanogen chloride (as CN)   70                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); tear gas; fumigant gases; reagent     111, 3512, 354
                                                                                                                                                                in the synthesis of other compounds

2,4-D                       30                                      X                                                X                                          Systemic chlorophenoxy herbicides                                111, 3512

2,4-DB                      90                                      X                                                X                                          Post-emergence herbicides to control broad-leaved annual         111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                                and perennial weeds in variety of agricultural crops

DDT and metabolites         1                                       X                                                X                                          Nonsystemic contact insecticide with a broad spectrum            111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                                of activity

Dibromoacetonitrile         70                                                                                                    X                             (Disinfection by-product)

Dibromochloromethane        100                                                                                      X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); laboratory reagents; chemical         23, 3511, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                                intermediates for the synthesis of organic compounds;            354
                                                                                                                                                                fluids for mineral ore separation; solvent for fats, waxes and
                                                                                                                                                                resins; flame retardants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     92
                                                                                                Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (UN industry/
                              Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                     process code
                              (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                        numbers, as
                              otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                           shown in




                                                Naturally occurring
                                                                      Agricultural activities
                                                                                                 Human settlements a
                                                                                                                       Industries
                                                                                                                                    Production and distribution
Chemical                      specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                    Appendix 2)

1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane   1                                       X                                                X                                          Nematicidal fumigants                                           111, 3512
                                    d
1,2-Dibromoethane             0.4                                                                                      X                                          Insecticide                                                     111, 3512

Dichloroacetate e                  d
                              50                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); chemical intermediate of synthesis   111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                  of organic materials; pharmaceuticals and medicines;            3522, 3529, 354
                                                                                                                                                                  topical astringent; fungicides

Dichloroacetonitrile          20 d                                                                                     X            X                             (Disinfection by-product)

1,2-Dichlorobenzene c         1 mg/L                                                                                   X                                          Odour-masking agents; dyestuffs; pesticides                     111, 3512

1,4-Dichlorobenzene c         300                                                                                      X                                          Odour-masking agents; dyestuffs; pesticides                     111, 3512

1,2-Dichloroethane            30                                                                                       X                                          Production of vinyl chloride; solvent; lead scavenger           3511, 3521, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                  in lead petrol

1,1-Dichloroethenef                                                                                                    X                                          Monomer in the production of polyvinylidene chloride        3511, 354
                                                                                                                                                                  co-polymers; intermediate in the synthesis of other organic
                                                                                                                                                                  chemicals

1,2-Dichloroethene            50                                                                                       X                                          Intermediate in the synthesis of chlorinated solvents and       3511, 354
                                                                                                                                                                  compounds; extraction solvent for organic materials

Dichloromethane               20                                                                  X                    X                                          Organic solvent; paints; insecticides; degreasing and           111, 3512, 3521,
                                                                                                                                                                  cleaning fluids                                                 354, 38
                                                                                                  Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (UN industry/
                                Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                    process code
                                (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                       numbers, as
                                otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                          shown in




                                                  Naturally occurring
                                                                        Agricultural activities
                                                                                                   Human settlements a
                                                                                                                         Industries
                                                                                                                                      Production and distribution
Chemical                        specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                   Appendix 2)

1,2-Dichloropropane (1,2-DCP)   40 d                                    X                                                X                                          Chemical intermediate; lead scavenger for antiknock fluids;    111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                    dry-cleaning solvent; soil fumigants; scouring compound;       3529, 354, 952
                                                                                                                                                                    spotting agent; metal-degreasing agent

1,3-Dichloropropene             20                                      X                                                X                                          Soil fumigants                                                 111, 3512

Dichlorprop                     100                                     X                                                X                                          Post-emergence herbicides to control broad-leaved annual
                                                                                                                                                                    and perennial weeds in variety of agricultural crops           111, 3512

Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate f                                                                                                X                                          Plasticizer for synthetic resins such as PVC; lubricant for    3513, 3529, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                    hydraulic fluid                                                38

Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate       8                                                                   X                    X                                          Plasticizer in many flexible PVC production and PVC            3513, 3529, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                    co-polymer resins; dielectric fluids for small (low-voltage)   38
                                                                                                                                                                    electrical capacitors

Dimethoate                      6                                       X                                                X                                          Acaricides; insecticides; nematicides                          111, 3512

Diquat f                                                                X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                     111, 3512

Edetic acid (EDTA)              600                                                                 X                    X                                          Treatment of lead poisoning in humans and domestic             3210, 341, 3513,
                                                                                                                                                                    animals; laundry detergents; cosmetics; photochemicals;        3529, 354, 38, 95
                                                                                                                                                                    pharmaceuticals; galvanizing; water softening;
                                                                                                                                                                    electroplating; polymerization; textile treatments;
                                                                                                                                                                    paper production

Endosulfan f                                                            X                                                X                                          Acaricides; insecticides                                       111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               94
                                                                                                    Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (UN industry/
                                  Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                        process code
                                  (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                           numbers, as
                                  otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                              shown in




                                                    Naturally occurring
                                                                          Agricultural activities
                                                                                                     Human settlements a
                                                                                                                           Industries
                                                                                                                                        Production and distribution
Chemical                          specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                       Appendix 2)

Endrin                            0.6                                     X                                                X                                          Avicides; insecticides                                             111, 3512
                  b
Epichlorohydrin                   0.4 d                                   X                                                X            X                             Manufacture of glycerol and unmodified epoxy resins;                3511,, 3513, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                                      manufacture of elastomers, water-treatment resins,                  354, 38, 4
                                                                                                                                                                      surfactants, ion exchange resins, plasticizers, dyestuffs,
                                                                                                                                                                      pharmaceutical products, oil emulsifiers, lubricants, and adhesives

Ethylbenzene c                    300                                                                 X                    X                                          In xylene mixtures (15–20%); paint industry; insecticide           3511, 3512, 3521,
                                                                                                                                                                      sprays; petrol blends; production in the styrene and               354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                      acetophenone, solvent; constituent of asphalt and naphtha

Fenitrothion f                                                            X                                                X                                          Insecticides                                                       111, 3512

Fenoprop                          9                                       X                                                X                                          Post-emergence herbicides to control broad-leaved annual           111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                                      and perennial weeds in variety of agricultural crops

Fluoranthene f                                                                                                                                                        Incomplete combustion of organic material, forest fires and        37, 4101, 7
                                                                                                                           X                                          volcanic eruptions; incomplete combustion of fossil fuels,
                                                                                                                                                                      coke oven emissions, aluminium smelters, vehicles

Fluoride                          1.5 mg/L          X                                                                      X                                          Aluminium production; flux in the steel and glass fibre         351, 361, 362,
                                                                                                                                                                      industries; production of phosphate fertilizers, bricks, tiles, 3691, 37, 4
                                                                                                                                                                      and ceramics; water fluoridation schemes

Formaldehyde f                                                                                                             X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); production of urea-formaldehyde,        3210, 322, 351,
                                                                                                                                                                      phenolic, melamine, pentaerythritol and polyacetal resins;         3529, 354
                                                                                                                                                                      industrial synthesis of a number of organic compounds;
                                                                                                                                                                      cosmetics; fungicides; textiles; embalming fluids

Glyphosate and aminomethylphos-                                           X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                         111, 3512
phonic acid (AMPA )f
                                                                                                       Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (UN industry/
                                     Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                      process code
                                     (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                         numbers, as
                                     otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                            shown in




                                                       Naturally occurring
                                                                             Agricultural activities
                                                                                                        Human settlements a
                                                                                                                              Industries
                                                                                                                                           Production and distribution
Chemical                             specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                     Appendix 2)

Heptachlor and heptachlorepoxide f                                           X                                                X                                          Soil and seed treatment to control ants, cutworm and             111, 3512, 354
                                                                                                                                                                         other insects; to control household insects and pests of
                                                                                                                                                                         human and domestic animals

Hexachlorobenzene f                                                          X                                                X                                          Fungicides; chemical processes by-product; impurity              111, 3512, 354
                                                                                                                                                                         in some pesticides

Hexachlorobutadiene                  0.6                                                                                      X            X                             Solvent in chlorine gas production; intermediate in the          111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                         manufacture of rubber compounds; lubricant; gyroscopic           3529, 354, 355,
                                                                                                                                                                         fluid; pesticides; fumigants in vineyards                        38

Isoproturon                          9                                       X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                       111, 3512

Lead                                 10                X                                                                      X            X                             Lead acid batteries; solder; alloys; cable sheathing; pigment;   23, 3513, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                                         rust inhibitors; ammunition; glazes; plastic stabilizers;        353, 361, 372, 38
                                                                                                                                                                         antiknock compounds in petrol; plumbing fittings; solder;
                                                                                                                                                                         lead pipes

Lindane                              2                                       X                                                X                                          Insecticides; seed treatment; therapeutic pesticides in          111, 3512, 932
                                                                                                                                                                         humans and animals

Malathion f                                                                  X                                                X                                          Acaricides; insecticides                                         111, 3512

Manganese c                          400               X                                                                      X                                          Iron, steel, and other alloys; batteries; glass; fireworks;
                                                                                                                                                                         oxidant for cleaning, bleaching and disinfection purposes        23, 3529, 362, 37,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        96
                                                                                    Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (UN industry/
                  Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                  process code
                  (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                     numbers, as
                  otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                        shown in




                                    Naturally occurring
                                                          Agricultural activities
                                                                                     Human settlements a
                                                                                                           Industries
                                                                                                                        Production and distribution
Chemical          specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                 Appendix 2)

MCPA              2                                       X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                   111, 3512

Mecoprop          10                                      X                                                X                                          Herbicides; plant growth regulators                          111, 3512

Mercury (inorg)   6                                                                                        X                                          Cathode in the electrolytic production of chlorine and        111, 23, 3511,
                                                                                                                                                      caustic soda; lamps; arc rectifiers; mercury cells; switches; 3512, 3522, 362,
                                                                                                                                                      thermometers; barometers; laboratory apparatus; dental        372, 38, 932
                                                                                                                                                      amalgams; raw material for various mercury compounds;
                                                                                                                                                      fungicides; antiseptics; preservatives; pharmaceuticals;
                                                                                                                                                      electrodes; reagents

Methoxychlor      20                                      X                                                X                                          Insecticides                                                 111, 3512

Metolachlor       10                                      X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                   111, 3512

Microcystin-LR    1                 X                                                                                                                 Toxin from blue-green algae (cyanobacteria).

Molinate          6                                       X                                                X                                          To control germinating and grassy weeds                      111, 3512

Molybdenum        70                X                     X                                                X                                          Special steel; electrical contacts; spark plugs; X-ray tubes; 23, 354, 362, 37,
                                                                                                                                                      filaments; screens; grids for radio valves; production of     38
                                                                                                                                                      tungsten, glass-to-metal seals, nonferrous alloys and
                                                                                                                                                      pigments; lubricant additive; direct treatment of seeds;
                                                                                                                                                      formulation of fertilizer to prevent molybdenum deficiency
                                                                                                Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (UN industry/
                              Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                   process code
                              (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                      numbers, as
                              otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                         shown in




                                                Naturally occurring
                                                                      Agricultural activities
                                                                                                 Human settlements a
                                                                                                                       Industries
                                                                                                                                    Production and distribution
Chemical                      specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                  Appendix 2)

Monochloramine c              3 mg/L                                                                                   X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); intermediates in the manufacture   3529
                                                                                                                                                                  of hydrazine; disinfectants for drinking-water

Monochloroacetate             20                                                                                       X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); intermediate or reagent in the     111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                  synthesis of a variety of chemicals; pre-emergence            3529, 354
                                                                                                                                                                  herbicides

Monochlorobenzene f                                                                                                    X                                          Solvent in pesticide formulation; degreasing agent;           111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                  intermediate in the synthesis of other halogenated organic    354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                  compounds

Nickel                        70                X                                                 X                    X            X                             Alloys, including stainless steel, batteries, chemicals,      23, 3529, 37, 38
                                                                                                                                                                  catalysts and the electrolytic coating of items such as
                                                                                                                                                                  chromium-plated taps and fittings used for tap water

Nitrate (as NO3-)             50 mg/L                                 X                           X                    X                                          Inorganic fertilizers; oxidizing agent; production            111, 29, 3511,
                              (short-term                                                                                                                         of explosives; glass making                                   3512, 3529, 362
                              exposure)

Nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA)   200                                                                 X                    X                                          Builder in laundry detergents; treatment of boiler water to 3210, 341, 3529,
                                                                                                                                                                  prevent the accumulation of mineral scale; photography;      354, 38, 932, 94,
                                                                                                                                                                  textile manufacture; paper and cellulose production; metal 95
                                                                                                                                                                  plating and cleaning operations; therapeutic chelating agent
                                                                                                                                                                  for the treatment of manganese poisoning and iron
                                                                                                                                                                  overloading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          98
                                                                                        Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (UN industry/
                      Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                  process code
                      (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                     numbers, as
                      otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                        shown in




                                        Naturally occurring
                                                              Agricultural activities
                                                                                         Human settlements a
                                                                                                               Industries
                                                                                                                            Production and distribution
Chemical              specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                 Appendix 2)

Nitrite (as   NO2-)   3 mg/L                                  X                           X                                 X                             Food preservation, especially in cured meats                 111, 3111, 3529
                      (short-term
                      exposure)

                      0.2 mg/L d
                      (long-term
                      exposure)

Pendimethalin         20                                      X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                   111, 3512

Pentachlorophenol     9d                                      X                                                X                                          Fungicides; herbicides; insecticides; molluscicides; plant   111, 3512
                                                                                                                                                          growth regulators

Permethrin f                                                  X                                                X                                          Contact insecticides                                         111, 3512

Pyriproxyfen          300                                     X                                                X                                          Insecticides                                                 111, 3512

Selenium              10                X                                                                      X                                          Photocopy machine photoreceptor; colouring agent for          23, 372
                                                                                                                                                          heat-absorbing glass; decolouring agent for lead glass;
                                                                                                                                                          electronic devices; television cameras, photoelectric cells;
                                                                                                                                                          magnetic core for calculators; solar cells; catalytic agents,
                                                                                                                                                          copper and copper alloy colouring, insecticides and
                                                                                                                                                          fungicides, rubber, mineral and vegetable oils

Simazine              2                                       X                                                X                                          Pre-emergence herbicides                                     111, 3512
          c
Styrene               20                                                                  X                    X                                          Production for plastics and resins                           3513, 354
                                                                                              Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (UN industry/
                            Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                   process code
                            (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                      numbers, as
                            otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                         shown in




                                              Naturally occurring
                                                                    Agricultural activities
                                                                                               Human settlements a
                                                                                                                     Industries
                                                                                                                                  Production and distribution
Chemical                    specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                  Appendix 2)

2,4,5-T                     9                                       X                                                X                                          Plant growth regulators; herbicides                           111, 3512

Terbuthylazine (TBA)        7                                       X                                                X                                          Herbicides                                                    111, 3512

Tetrachloroethene           40                                                                  X                    X                                          Solvent in the dry-cleaning industry; degreasing solvent in 3511, 354, 38,
                                                                                                                                                                metal industries; a heat-transfer medium; manufacture of 952
                                                                                                                                                                fluorohydrocarbons

Toluene c                   700                                                                 X                    X                                          Solvent for paint, coatings, gums, oils and resins;           3511, 3513, 3521,
                                                                                                                                                                raw material in the production of benzene, phenol, and        353, 354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                other organic solvents; blending of petrol

Trichloroacetaldehyde
(see chloral hydrate)

Trichloroacetate            200                                                                                      X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); intermediate in the synthesis of   111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                organic chemicals; laboratory reagent; herbicides;            3529, 354
                                                                                                                                                                soil sterilizer; antiseptic

Trichloroacetonitrile                                               X                                                             X                             (Disinfection by-product); insecticides                       111, 3512

Trichlorobenzenes f (tot)                                                                                            X                                          Intermediate in chemical synthesis; coolant; lubricant;       111, 3210, 3211,
                                                                                                                                                                heat-transfer medium; polyester dyeing; termite-control       3511, 3512, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                preparations; insecticides                                    38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100
                                                                                                  Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (UN industry/
                                Guideline value                                                                                                                                                                                      process code
                                (μg/L unless                                                                                                                                                                                         numbers, as
                                otherwise                                                                                                                                                                                            shown in




                                                  Naturally occurring
                                                                        Agricultural activities
                                                                                                   Human settlements a
                                                                                                                         Industries
                                                                                                                                      Production and distribution
Chemical                        specified)                                                                                                                          Major use(s)                                                     Appendix 2)
                        f
1,1,1-Trichloroethane                                                                                                    X                                          Cleaning solvent for electrical equipment, motors, electronic    3529, 354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                    instruments and upholstery; solvent for adhesives, coatings
                                                                                                                                                                    and textile dyes; coolant and lubricant in metal cutting oils;
                                                                                                                                                                    component of inks and drain cleaners

Trichloroethene                 20 d                                                                X                    X                                          Dry cleaning; degreasing of fabricated metal parts; solvent      3513, 3521, 354,
                                                                                                                                                                    for fats, waxes, resins, oils, rubber, paints and varnishes;     38, 932, 952
                                                                                                                                                                    inhalation analgesic and anaesthetic

2,4,6-Trichlorophenol c         200                                                                                      X            X                             (Disinfection by-product); production of                 111, 12, 3511,
                                                                                                                                                                    2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol and pentachlorophenol;         3512, 3529, 354
                                                                                                                                                                    germicides; glue and wood preservative; antimildew agent

Trifluralin                     20                                      X                                                X                                          Pre-emergence herbicides                                         111, 3512

Trihalomethanes (see bromoform, dibromochloromethane, bromodichloromethane, chloroform)

Uranium e                       15 d              X                                                                      X                                          Fuel in nuclear power stations                                   23, 372, 4101

Vinyl chloride                  0.3                                                                                      X            X                             Production of polyvinyl chloride (PVC); co-monomer with 3511, 3513, 354
                                                                                                                                                                    ethenyl ethanoate or 1,1-dichloroethene; raw material in the
                                                                                                                                                                    manufacture of 1,1,1-trichloroethane and monochloraldehyde

Xylenes c                       500                                                                 X                    X                                          Manufacture of insecticides and pharmaceuticals;                 111, 3511, 3512,
                                                                                                                                                                    component of detergents; solvent for paints, inks and            352, 353, 354, 38
                                                                                                                                                                    adhesives; blending petrol; manufacture of
                                                                                                                                                                    various chemicals
              Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 101




a Waste disposal and use of sewage sludges (classified in this publication as originating from
  human settlements) may result in the presence of chemicals from human settlements addi-
  tional to those shown in this table.
b Managed through product specification.
c May cause problems with acceptability at concentrations below health-based guideline
  value.
d Provisional guideline value – refer to the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO,
  2004; WHO, 2006) for complete explanation of provisional guidelines
e In some circumstances, treatment may be difficult at concentrations above the guideline
  value.
f Health-based guideline value not proposed because not of health concern at levels found in
  drinking-water.
X Potential source of chemical in drinking water. To be taken into consideration as part of the
  assessment of priority chemicals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  102

Table A1.2 | Chemicals that may give rise to consumer complaints

                                                                      Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (UN industry/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              process code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              numbers, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shown in




                      Naturally occurring
                                            Agricultural activities
                                                                       Human settlements a
                                                                                             Industries
                                                                                                          Production and distribution
Chemical                                                                                                                                Major use(s)                                                                          Appendix 2)

Aluminium                                                                  X                   X             X                          Antacids; antiperspirants; food additives; vaccine adjuvants; flocculants             23, 311/2, 3522,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              372, 38,4

Ammonia                   X                     X                                              X             X                          Fertilizer and animal feed production; manufacture of fibre, plastics, explosives,    311/2, 3210, 341,
                                                                                                                                        paper and rubber; coolant; metal processing; starting production for many nitrogen-   351, 3523, 3529,
                                                                                                                                        containing compounds; cleaning agents; food additive; diuretic                        355, 38

Chloride                  X                                                X                   X                                        Production of industrial chemicals such as caustic soda, chlorine, sodium chlorite    3121, 3511, 3512
                                                                                                                                        and sodium hypochlorite; snow and ice control; production of fertilizers

Chlorine                                                                                       X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

2-Chlorophenol                                                                                 X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

Copper                    X                                                                    X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

1,2-Dichlorobenzene                                                                            X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

1,4-Dichlorobenzene                                                                            X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

2,4-Dichlorophenol                                                                             X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1

Ethylbenzene                                                               X                   X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                        See Table A1.1
                                                                       Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (UN industry/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  process code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  numbers, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown in




                       Naturally occurring
                                             Agricultural activities
                                                                        Human settlements a
                                                                                              Industries
                                                                                                           Production and distribution
Chemical                                                                                                                                 Major use(s)                                                                             Appendix 2)

Hydrogen sulfide           X                                                                    X                                        Conversion into sulfur; sulfuric acid manufacture; dye manufacture; tanning;             3231, 341, 3511,
                                                                                                                                         production of wood-pulp; chemical processing; manufacture of cosmetics                   3529,354

Iron                       X                                                                    X             X                          Drinking-water pipes; pigments in paints and plastics; food colours; treatment of        23, 3513, 3522,
                                                                                                                                         iron deficiency in humans; coagulants                                                    3529, 371, 38,4,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  932

Manganese                  X                                                                    X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                           See Table A1.1

Monochloramine                                                                                  X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                           See Table A1.1

Monochlorobenzene                                                                               X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                           See Table A1.1

Sodium                     X                                                                    X                                        Manufacture of tetraethyl lead and sodium hydride; titanium production; catalyst for     3511, 3529, 355,
                                                                                                                                         synthetic rubber; laboratory reagent; coolant in nuclear reactors; electric power        362, 372, 38, 4
                                                                                                                                         cables; non-glare lighting for roads; solar-powered electric generators;
                                                                                                                                         water treatment

Styrene                                                                     X                   X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                           See Table A1.1

Sulfate                    X                                                                    X                                        Fertilizers; chemicals; dyes; glass; paper; soaps; textiles; fungicides; insecticides;   111, 2, 3231, 341,
                                                                                                                                         astringents; emetic; mining, wood-pulp, metal and plating industries; sewage             3511, 3512, 3523,
                                                                                                                                         treatment; leather processing; sedimentation agent; control of algae                     3529, 362, 37, 38, 4

Synthetic detergents                                                        X                   X                                        Cleaning and washing                                                                     (all industries)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              104
                                                                          Origin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Potential source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (UN industry/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           process code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           numbers, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           shown in




                          Naturally occurring
                                                Agricultural activities
                                                                           Human settlements a
                                                                                                 Industries
                                                                                                              Production and distribution
Chemical                                                                                                                                    Major use(s)                                                                   Appendix 2)

Toluene                                                                        X                   X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                 See Table A1.1

Trichlorobenzenes (tot)                                                                            X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                 See Table A1.1

2,4,6-Trichlorophenol                                                                              X             X                          See Table A1.1                                                                 See Table A1.1

Xylene                                                                         X                   X                                        See Table A1.1                                                                 See Table A1.1

Zinc                          X                                                                    X             X                          Corrosion-resistant alloys; brass; galvanizing steel; iron products; rubber;   111, 23, 3512,
                                                                                                                                            treatment of zinc deficiency in humans; pesticides                             3522, 355, 372,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           38, 932
                Potential sources and uses of chemicals considered in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality | 105




a Waste disposal and use of sewage sludges (classified in this publication as originating from
  human settlements) may result in the presence of chemicals from human settlements additional
  to those shown in this table.
X Potential source of chemical in drinking water. To be taken into consideration as part of the
  assessment of priority chemicals.


    References
    WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
    Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

    WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
    Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.
appendix   2
Chemicals potentially
discharged through
effluents from industrial
sources
108
                                  Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources | 109




The following listings are not intended to be comprehensive, because there may be consider-
able variation in the uses of chemicals by individual industries in different countries and
regions. The listings have been developed to help water authorities and other agencies
related to drinking-water quality monitoring and control to undertake an inventory of potential
chemical contaminants within a catchment. Some of the uses listed may be very minor, but it
is not clear that they can be ignored when assessing the potential for contamination from
industrial sources. Where no potential chemical discharges have been included for an activ-
ity, this does not necessarily mean that there are no discharges – an assessment of the man-
agement programme may be required, based on local knowledge.
110




  Table A2.1 | Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources
  Source activity                                     Chemicals potentially discharged through effluent

  0 Activities not adequately defined
  Consumer solvent use, surface coating

  1 Agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing
      11 Agriculture and hunting
           111 Agriculture and livestock production   Alachlor, aldicarb, aldrin and dieldrin, arsenic, atrazine,
                                                      bentazone, boron, carbofuran, carbon tetrachloride,
                                                      chlorate, chloroform, chlorotoluron, chlorpyrifos,
                                                      chromium, copper, cyanazine, cyanogen chloride,
                                                      2,4-D, 2,4-DB, DDT and metabolites, 1,2-dibromo-
                                                      3-chloropropane, 1,2-dibromoethane, dichloroacetate,
                                                      1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene,
                                                      dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloropropane (1,2-DCP),
                                                      1,3-dichloropropene, dichlorprop, dimethoate, diquat,
                                                      endosulfan, endrin, epichlorohydrin, fenitrothion,
                                                      fenoprop, glyphosate and AMPA, heptachlor and
                                                      heptachlorepoxide, hexachlorobenzene,
                                                      hexachlorobutadiene, isoproturon, lindane, malathion,
                                                      MCPA, mecoprop, mercury, methoxychlor, metolachlor,
                                                      molinate, monochloroacetate, monochlorobenzene,
                                                      nitrate, nitrite, pendimethalin, pentachlorophenol,
                                                      permethrin, pyriproxyfen, simazine, 2,4,5-T,
                                                      terbuthylazine (TBA), trichloroacetate, trichloroacetonitrile,
                                                      trichlorobenzenes, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, trifluralin,
                                                      xylenes
      12 Forestry and logging
          121 Forestry                                Arsenic, boron, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol

  2 Mining and quarrying
      21 Coal mining                                  Sulfate
      22 Crude petroleum and natural gas production   Barium
      23 Metal ore mining                             Aluminium, antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, boron,
                                                      bromodichloromethane, bromoform, cadmium,
                                                      chromium, copper, dibromochloromethane, iron, lead,
                                                      manganese, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium,
                                                      uranium, zinc
      29 Other mining                                 Nitrate

  3 Manufacturing
      31 Manufacture of food, beverages and tobacco   Chlorine
          311/2 Food manufacturing                    Aluminium, ammonia
              3111 Slaughtering, preparing and        Nitrite
                   preserving meat
              3112 Manufacture of dairy products      Bromate
              3113 Canning and preserving fruits
                   and vegetables
              3114 Canning and preserving             Bromate
                   and processing of fish
              3115 Manufacture of vegetable
                   and animal oils and fats
              3116 Grain mill products                Bromate
              3117 Bakery products
              3118 Sugar factories and refineries
              3121 Food products not elsewhere        Arsenic, chloride
                   classified
              3122 Alfalfa dehydrating
                                        Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources | 111




Source activity                                          Chemicals potentially discharged through effluent

        313 Beverage Industries
              3131 Distilling, rectifying and blending
                    spirits
              3132 Wine industries
              3133 Malt liquors and malt                 Bromate
              3134 Soft drinks
    32 Textile, wearing apparel and leather              Arsenic
        321 Manufacture of textiles
              3210 Manufacture of textiles               Ammonia, antimony, trichlorobenzenes, EDTA,
                                                         formaldehyde, nitrilotriacetic acid
        322 Manufacture of wearing apparel,              Formaldehyde
             except footwear
             3211 Spinning, weaving and finishing        Trichlorobenzenes
                   textiles
             3214 Carpet and rug manufacture
        323 Manufacture of leather and products          Boron
             of leather
             3231 Tanneries and leather finishing        Chromium, hydrogen sulfide, sulfate
    34 Paper and paper products, printing
       and publishing
        341 Manufacture of paper and paper products
        342 Printing, publishing and allied industries   Antimony
    35 Manufacture of chemicals, and chemical,
       petroleum, coal rubber and plastic products
        351 Manufacture of industrial chemicals          Ammonia, carbon tetrachloride, fluoride, formaldehyde,
             3511 Basic industrial chemicals,            Acrylamide, benzene, bromodichloromethane,
                   except fertilizers                    bromoform, chloride, chlorine, chloroform,
                                                         dibromochloromethane, dichloroacetate,
                                                         1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1–dichloroethene,
                                                         1,2–dichloroethene, 1,2-dichloropropane, epichlorohydrin,
                                                         ethylbenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, hydrogen sulfide,
                                                         mercury, monochloroacetate, monochlorobenzene,
                                                         nitrate, sodium, sulfate, tetrachloroethene, toluene,
                                                         trichloroacetate, trichlorobenzenes,
                                                         2,4,6-trichlorophenol, vinyl chloride, xylenes
             3512 Manufacture of fertilizers             Alachlor, aldicarb, aldrin and dieldrin, antimony, arsenic,
                  and pesticides                         atrazine, bentazone, boron, carbofuran, chlordane,
                                                         chloride, chloroform, chlorotoluron, chlorpyrifos,
                                                         chromium, copper, cyanazine, cyanogen chloride,
                                                         2,4-D, 2,4-DB, DDT and metabolites, 1,2-dibromo-
                                                         3-chloropropane, 1,2-dibromoethane, dichloroacetate,
                                                         1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene,
                                                         dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloropropane (1,2-DCP),
                                                         1,3-dichloropropene, dichlorprop, dimethoate, diquat,
                                                         endosulfan, endrin, epichlorohydrin, ethylbenzene,
                                                         fenitrothion, fenoprop, glyphosate and AMPA,
                                                         heptachlor and heptachlorepoxide, hexachlorobenzene,
                                                         hexachlorobutadiene, isoproturon, lindane, malathion,
                                                         MCPA, mecoprop, mercury, methoxychlor, metolachlor,
                                                         molinate, monochloroacetate, monochlorobenzene,
                                                         nitrate, pendimethalin, pentachlorophenol, permethrin,
                                                         pyriproxyfen, simazine, sulfate, 2,4,5-T, terbuthylazine
                                                         (TBA), trichloroacetate, trichloroacetronitrile,
                                                         trichlorobenzenes, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, trifluralin,
                                                         xylenes, zinc
             3513 Resins, plastics and fibres            Acrylamide, barium, di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate,
                  except glass                           di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate, EDTA, epichlorohydrin, iron,
                                                         lead, styrene, toluene, trichloroethene, vinyl chloride
112




  Source activity                                      Chemicals potentially discharged through effluent

          352 Manufacture of other chemical            Xylenes
              organic products
              3521 Manufacture of paints, varnishes    Arsenic, barium, benzene, carbon tetrachloride,
                   and lacquers                        chromium, 1,2-dichloroethane, dichloromethane,
                                                       ethylbenzene, toluene, trichloroethene
              3522 Manufacture of drugs                Aluminium, antimony, arsenic, barium, boron, cadmium,
                   and medicines                       chloral hydrate, chromium, copper, dichloroacetate,
                                                       iron, mercury, zinc
              3523 Manufacture of soap                 Ammonia, sulfate
                   and cleaning preparations
              3529 Chemical products                   Acrylamide, ammonia, boron, bromate,
                   not elsewhere classified            bromodichloromethane, bromoform, chloral hydrate,
                                                       chlorate, chlorine, chlorite, chloroform, copper,
                                                       dibromochloromethane, dichloroacetate,
                                                       1,2-dichloropropane, di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate,
                                                       di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate, EDTA, epichlorohydrin,
                                                       formaldehyde, hexachlorobutadiene, hydrogen sulfide,
                                                       iron, lead, manganese, monochloramine,
                                                       monochloroacetate, nickel, nitrate, nitrilotriacetic
                                                       acid, nitrite, sodium, sulfate, trichloroacetate,
                                                       1,1,1-trichloroethane, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol
          353 Petroleum refineries                     Benzene, lead, toluene, xylenes
          354 Manufacture of misc. products
              of petroleum and coal                    Acrylamide, barium, benzene, bromodichloromethane,
                                                       bromoform, carbon tetrachloride, chloral hydrate,
                                                       chlordane, chloroform, cyanogen chloride,
                                                       dibromochloromethane, dichloroacetate,
                                                       1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1–dichloroethene,
                                                       1,2–dichloroethene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloropropane,
                                                       di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate,
                                                       EDTA, epichlorohydrin, ethylbenzene, formaldehyde,
                                                       heptachlor and heptachlorepoxide, hexachlorobenzene,
                                                       hexachlorobutadiene, hydrogen sulfide, molybdenum,
                                                       monochloroacetate, monochlorobenzene,
                                                       nitrilotriacetic acid, styrene, tetrachloroethene, toluene,
                                                       trichloroacetate, trichlorobenzenes,
                                                       1,1,1-trichloroethane, trichloroethene,
                                                       2,4,6-trichlorophenol, vinyl chloride, xylenes
          355 Manufacture of rubber products           Ammonia, barium, hexachlorobutadiene, sodium, zinc
              3551 Tyre and tube industries
      36 Non-metallic mineral products, except
         products of petroleum and coal
          361 Manufacture of pottery, china            Antimony, chromium, fluoride, lead
              and earthenware
          362 Manufacture of glass                     Antimony, arsenic, barium, boron, chromium, fluoride,
              and glass products                       manganese, mercury, molybdenum, nitrate, sodium,
                                                       sulfate
          369 Manufacture of other non-metallic
               mineral products
              3691 Manufacture of structural           Barium, fluoride
                    clay products
              3692 Cement, lime and plaster
              3699 Products not elsewhere classified
      37 Basic metal industries                        Benzo[a]pyrene, boron, fluoranthene, fluoride,
                                                       manganese, molybdenum, nickel, sulfate
          371 Iron and steel basic industries          Cyanide, iron
          372 Non-ferrous metal basic industries       Aluminium, antimony, arsenic, barium, cadmium, chromium,
                                                       copper, lead, mercury, selenium, sodium, uranium, zinc
                                       Chemicals potentially discharged through effluents from industrial sources | 113




Source activity                                        Chemicals potentially discharged through effluent

    38 Fabricated metal products, machinery            Aluminium, ammonia, antimony, arsenic, barium,
       and equipment                                   beryllium, cadmium, carbon tetrachloride, cyanide,
                                                       dichloromethane, di(2-ethylhexyl)-adipate,
                                                       di(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate, EDTA, epichlorohydrin,
                                                       ethylbenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, iron, lead,
                                                       manganese, mercury, molybdenum, monochlorobenzene,
                                                       nickel, nitrilotriacetic acid, sodium, sulfate,
                                                       tetrachloroethene, toluene, trichlorobenzenes,
                                                       1,1,1-trichloroethane, trichloroethene, xylenes, zinc
    381 Fabricated metal products,
        except machinery
        384 Manufacture of transport equipment
            3841 Ship building and repairing

4 Electricity, gas and water                           Acrylamide, aluminium, chlorine, copper, epichlorohydrin,
                                                       fluoride, iron, sodium, sulfate
    41 Electricity, gas and steam
             4101 Electricity light and power          Benzo[a]pyrene, cyanide, fluoranthene, uranium

6 Wholesale and retail trade
   61 Wholesale trade
   62 Retail trade
   63 Restaurants and hotels
        631 Restaurants, cafes, and other eating
             and drinking
        632 Hotels, rooming houses, camps
             and other lodging

7 Transport, storage and communication                 Benzo[a]pyrene, fluoranthene
     71 Transport and storage
         711 Land transport
         712 Water transport
         713 Air transport
         719 Services allied to transport
              7192 Storage and warehousing

9 Community, social and personal services
    92 Sanitary and similar services                   Bromate
    93 Social and related community services
        931 Education services
        932 Medical, dental and other                  Antimony, boron, bromoform, chloral hydrate,
             health services                           chloroform, iron, lindane, mercury, nitrilotriacetic acid,
                                                       trichloroethene, zinc
    94 Recreational and cultural services              Chlorine, chromium, copper, nitrilotriacetic acid
    95 Personal and household services                 EDTA, nitrilotriacetic acid
        952 Laundries, laundry services                1,2-dichloropropane, tetrachloroethene,
            and cleaning                               trichloroethene




Notes
1. Classification of source activities is based on the United Nations Statistics Division – Classifications
Registry: Activity Classifications, ISIC Rev. 2 http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/regcst.asp?CI=8&Lg=1.
2. Effluents from all industrial sources have the possibility of containing synthetic detergents.
appendix   3
Association of
pesticides with crops
and crop types
116
                                                       Association of pesticides with crops and crop types | 117




A wide range of pesticides can potentially be found in drinking-water, usually at very low con-
centrations. Because chemical analysis can be difficult, common practice is to determine
what substances are used in the catchment, and thus determine the monitoring and other
risk management practices that are needed. However, the nature of pesticide use is such
that concentrations in surface water may be very variable and intermittent. Any monitoring will
require careful planning if it is to generate useful data. Some pesticides are not very mobile
in soil and, if found in water, they may be adsorbed to particulate matter. Many of the pesti-
cides in current use are broken down rapidly in the environment.
         In many countries, groundwater in agricultural areas contains very low concentrations
of pesticides, which are not of concern to health. Generally, pesticides in groundwater at lev-
els that are of concern to health occur only at sites where open wells allow pesticide-contam-
inated runoff to be washed directly to the water table, or where large volumes of pesticides
have been mixed and spilt on bare soil where the water table is very shallow. The risk of pes-
ticides being present at high concentrations can usually be assessed through a detailed san-
itary survey of an area. Chemical analysis for pesticides is generally not necessary; also, it is
expensive and beyond the analytical capacity of many countries. Pesticides used in paddy
fields can be a particular problem where there is overflow or drainage into water bodies that
may be used as drinking-water sources.
         Three of the pesticides considered in the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Guide-
lines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004b; WHO, 2006) – chlorpyrifos, dichlorodiphenyl-
trichloroethane (DDT) and its metabolites, and pyriproxyfen – are used as larvicides to control
the aquatic larval stages of insects of public health significance. In considering such chemi-
cals, a suitable balance needs to be struck between the protection of drinking-water quality
and the control of insects of public health significance. However, it is important that every effort
should be made to keep the concentration of any larvicide as low as is reasonably possible.
         This appendix lists various crops, together with the insecticides and herbicides that
may be associated with their production. It thus provides a starting point for determining the
pesticides of interest in a particular catchment. Such a listing cannot be definitive; for exam-
ple, sometimes a pesticide may be used that is not specifically recommended for control in a
particular crop. This situation can occur for various reasons, such as lack of access to more
appropriate pesticides.
         Once the pesticides of interest have been determined, it is then necessary to exam-
ine the type of application, the likely weather conditions, the nature of the soil and water
sources, and the chemical nature of the pesticide (i.e. stability, octanol-water coefficient, bind-
ing, water solubility and, where appropriate, binding capacity to soil organic matter), to deter-
mine the risk that the chemical will reach water sources. This is discussed in Section 5 of
Chapter 5.
         The pesticides considered in Table A3.1 are those for which WHO has set guideline
levels in drinking-water. The crops included were chosen based on the world’s 30 major
crops, on a harvested area basis, according to 2002 statistics from the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
118




           Table A3.1 only shows the known, major uses for particular pesticides. There will also
  be many minor uses of each pesticide, not stated in the literature because the manufacturers
  consider the use to be insignificant. In general, similar suites of pesticides are used on differ-
  ent crops in a related group. For example, many more sorghum pesticides may be used on
  millet than are shown in the table, and similar pesticides are likely to be used on chickpeas
  and cow peas. The table is also based on approved or recommended uses for each pesticide.
  In countries where pesticide use is poorly regulated, farmers and growers might use a much
  greater range of pesticides on each crop than is shown, particularly if the pesticides do not
  cause unacceptable damage to the crop. In particular, many insecticides could be used on a
  much wider range of crops than is shown, without damage to the crops (unlike herbicides). It
  is possible that most of the insecticides shown in Table A3.1 could be used on most of the
  crops shown.
           For these reasons, in areas where current and past pesticide use is not well docu-
  mented, pesticide analysis should be based on the best available evidence even if it is anec-
  dotal, but should nevertheless include chemicals of greatest hazard to human health, such as
  insecticides.


  References
  Page BG and Thomson WT (1990). The Insecticide, Herbicide, Fungicide Quick Guide, Thomson
  Publications, Fresno, CA, USA.

  Tomlin CDS (ed.) (2000). The pesticide manual, 12th ed, The British Crop Protection Council.

  WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
  Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

  WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
  Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

  WHO (2006). Protecting Groundwater for Health: Managing the Quality of Drinking-
  water Sources, World Health Organization, Geneva
Table A3.1 | Association of insecticides and herbicides with crops and crop types



Crop              Insecticides                                                                 Herbicides

Cereals

Barley            aldrin a; dieldrin a; dimethoate; lindane                                    chlorotoluron; cyanazine; 2,4-D; 2,4-DB; dichlorprop; isoproturon;
                                                                                               MCPA; MCPB; mecoprop; pendimethalin

Maize             aldicarb; aldrin a; dieldrin a; carbofuran; lindane                          alachlor; atrazine; cyanazine; 2,4-D; fenoprop; metalochlor;
                                                                                               pendimethalin; simazine; terbuthylazine

Millet            1,3-dichloropropene                                                          2,4-D

Oats              aldrin a             a
                          ; dieldrin ; dimethoate; lindane                                     cyanazine; 2,4-D; 2,4-DB; dichlorprop; MCPA; MCPB; mecoprop;
                                                                                               pendimethalin

Rice (paddy)      carbofuran; dimethoate                                                       2,4-D; MCPA; MCPB; molinate; pendimethalin

Rye               dimethoate; lindane                                                          chlorotoluron; 2,4-D; 2,4-DB; dichlorprop; isoproturon; MCPA; MCPB;
                                                                                               mecoprop; pendimethalin

Sorghum           aldicarb; carbofuran                                                         atrazine; 2,4-D; metalochlor; pendimethalin; terbuthylazine

Wheat             aldrin a;   dieldrin a;   dimethoate; lindane                                chlorotoluron; cyanazine; 2,4-D; 2,4-DB; dichlorprop; isoproturon;
                                                                                               MCPA; MCPB; mecoprop; pendimethalin

Fibre crops

Flax fibre and tow 1,3-dichloropropene                                                         MCPA; trifluralin

Seed cotton       aldicarb;    aldrin a;    dieldrin a;   carbofuran; dimethoate;   endrin a   alachlor; cyanazine; metalochlor; pendimethalin; trifluralin
                                                                                                                                                                     Association of pesticides with crops and crop types | 119
                                                                                                                                                              120
Crop               Insecticides                                                        Herbicides

Fruits

Apples             1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; dimethoate;             2,4-D; pendimethalin; simazine
                   lindane; methoxychlor a

Bananas            aldicarb; carbofuran                                                simazine

Citrus fruits      aldicarb; dimethoate                                                metolachlor; pendimethalin; simazine; trifluralin

Grapes             1,2-dichloropropane a;1,3-dichloropropene; carbofuran; dimethoate; 2,4-D; metolachlor; pendimethalin; simazine;
                   lindane; methoxychlor a                                            terbuthylazine; trifluralin

Oilcrops

Coconuts                                                                               2,4,5-T

Groundnuts in shell aldicarb; carbofuran; 1,2-dichloropropane; 1,3-dichloropropene;    alachlor; 2,4-DB; MCPB; metalochlor; pendimethalin; trifluralin
                    ethylene dibromide

Oil palm fruit                                                                         simazine; 2,4,5-T; terbuthylazine

Olives             1,2-dichloropropane a;   1,3-dichloropropene                        simazine; terbuthylazine

Rapeseed           carbofuran; lindane                                                 alachlor; cyanazine; simazine; trifluralin

Soybeans           aldicarb; carbofuran                                                alachlor; cyanazine; 2,4-DB; metalochlor; pendimethalin; trifluralin

Sunflower seed     carbofuran; lindane                                                 alachlor; metalochlor; pendimethalin; trifluralin

Pulses

Beans (dry)        aldicarb; 1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; dimethoate;   cyanazine; pendimethalin; simazine; terbuthylazine; trifluralin
                   lindane; methoxychlor a

Chickpeas          dimethoate                                                          cyanazine; MCPA; MCPB; pendimethalin; simazine; terbuthylazine;
                                                                                       trifluralin

Cow peas (dry)     1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; dimethoate;             cyanazine; MCPA; MCPB; pendimethalin; simazine; terbuthylazine;
                   methoxychlor a                                                      trifluralin
Crop                  Insecticides                                                         Herbicides

Roots and tubers

Cassava               dimethoate                                                           metolachlor; pendimethalin

Potatoes              aldicarb; aldrin a; carbofuran; 1;2-dichloropropane;                 cyanazine; MCPA; metalochlor; pendimethalin; terbuthylazine
                      1,3-dichloropropene; dieldrin; endrin a; ethylene dibromide;
                      dimethoate

Sweet potatoes        aldicarb; 1,2-dichloropropane; 1,3-dichloropropene; methoxychlor a

Sugar crops

Sugar-beet            aldicarb; carbofuran; 1,2-dichloropropane; 1,3-dichloropropene;      metalochlor; trifluralin
                      ethylene dibromide; dimethoate; lindane

Sugar-cane            aldicarb; carbofuran                                                 alachlor; atrazine; cyanazine; 2,4-D; fenoprop; metalochlor; simazine;
                                                                                           terbuthylazine; trifluralin

Vegetables

Cabbages              1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; dimethoate; lindane;     metolachlor; trifluralin
                      methoxychlor a

Onions                1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; lindane                  trifluralin

Tomatoes              1,2-dichloropropane a; 1,3-dichloropropene; dimethoate; lindane;     trifluralin
                      methoxychlor a

Other crops

Cocoa beans           dimethoate; lindane                                                  simazine; terbuthylazine

Coffee (green)        aldicarb; carbofuran; dimethoate                                     simazine; terbuthylazine

Natural rubber                                                                             simazine; 2,4,5-T; terbuthylazine




a
    Superseded pesticides (materials believed to be no longer manufactured or marketed for crop protection use).
                                                                                                                                                                    Association of pesticides with crops and crop types | 121
appendix   4
Practical comments on
selected parameters
124
                                                          Practical comments on selected parameters | 125




Introduction
This appendix gives some practical comments on selected chemicals and parameters, based
on broad experience worldwide. It may be used as a supporting document for risk-manage-
ment planning; however, it provides general guidance only, and the comments provided
should be considered in this light. In addition to chemicals of health concern, this appendix
also includes other chemicals and physical parameters that may give rise to consumer com-
plaints or act as indicators of other chemicals of concern listed in the World Health Organiza-
tion’s (WHO) Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2004; WHO, 2006). It also com-
ments on monitoring of treated water. As noted in Chapter 3, monitoring is only one part of
risk management, and the resources required need to be considered carefully, because mon-
itoring of final drinking-water may not be the most cost-effective approach.
         The WHO guidelines provide additional information for most of the parameters dis-
cussed below.
126
                                                           Practical comments on selected parameters | 127




Adipates and phthalates
Adipates and phthalates are widely used in industry, and are widespread in the environment.
They are encountered in raw surface water and may be found (usually at low concentrations)
in treated drinking-water. Few countries have considered it necessary to set standards for
these substances, and they are not usually monitored routinely.
         Adipates and phthalates are used in the manufacture of polyacrylamides and water
treatment resins. They are extremely difficult to analyse in water at trace concentrations. Con-
trol of these substances is through specifications on product quality and on the way that the
products are used in contact with water.

Algal toxins
Blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) can occur in surface water bodies used for water supply
Some species of cyanobacteria contain toxins of concern to human health (e.g. microcystins),
and these can be released when algal cell walls are ruptured. There is a wide range of poten-
tial toxins and it appears that not all of the possible toxins have been identified.
         Toxins such as microcystin LR and associated substances can be very difficult to
analyse at low concentrations in water. Therefore, it is preferable to control blue-green algae
by preventing algal blooms in source waters. There are treatment options for microcystin LR
and related substances, but these require careful assessment; for example, it is particularly
important to ensure that algal cells are removed.
         Blooms of blue-green algae occur in appropriate weather conditions in still or slow-
flowing bodies of water with high phosphorus concentrations that either occur naturally or are
from a number of possible human-made sources.
         Every effort should be made to prevent blooms forming, and this is the primary man-
agement approach. Where there are heavy algal blooms, it is best to consider an alternative
source of water unless appropriate treatment is available.

Aluminium (Al)
Aluminium is one of the most common elements in the Earth’s crust; it occurs in a large vari-
ety of minerals in almost all geological environments. Aluminium from natural sources is
therefore often found in raw waters, but only soluble forms of aluminium are likely to reach
drinking-water. One of the major potential sources is aluminium salts, which are widely used
as coagulants in drinking-water treatment.
        Although there is no health-based guideline value for aluminium, high concentrations
reaching distribution systems can result in deposits of aluminium flocs, which can cause sub-
sequent problems of dirty water. Concentrations can normally be maintained below 0.2 mg/L,
and 0.1 mg/L should be achievable in well-run large treatment works. Monitoring is normally
carried out in final water from the treatment works, but control is best achieved by optimizing
coagulation and filtration, and by using operational monitoring for parameters such as turbidity.
128




  Ammonia (NH3 )
  Ammonia is not of direct health concern but can compromise disinfection efficiency because
  it exerts a significant chlorine demand, reacting rapidly with chlorine.
           Although ammonia is not toxic at concentrations generally found in water, its pres-
  ence in raw water often indicates that the water is contaminated by sewage, by leachate from
  waste-disposal sites or by animal waste from agricultural activities. Ammonia may also occur
  naturally in groundwater from peaty sediments, or in slow-moving or stagnant surface water
  bodies that contain a lot of organic matter and are poorly aerated.
           Ammonia is occasionally found in distribution systems where chloramine is used as a
  residual disinfectant, if the process of producing chloramine is not sufficiently well controlled.
  Monitoring could be carried out in the final water from the treatment works, but other param-
  eters (e.g. free chlorine) are normally considered to be more important.

  Antimony (Sb)
  High concentrations of antimony may occur in acidic drainage from mining areas, in groundwa-
  ter known to contain high concentrations of arsenic, and in groundwater in active volcanic areas.
            Antimony is not usually found in significant concentrations in drinking-water. Con-
  cerns that antimony–tin solders would be widely used in place of lead solders have not mate-
  rialized. Should monitoring be required, this would normally need to be at the tap unless a spe-
  cific source of antimony in raw water is identified.

  Arsenic (As)
  Arsenic naturally occurs in a number of geological environments, but is particularly associ-
  ated with sulfide-containing minerals; principally, arsenopyrite precipitated from hydrother-
  mal fluids in metamorphic environments. It is also formed in low-temperature sedimentary
  environments under reducing conditions. Major alluvial and deltaic plains and inland basins
  composed of young sediments (quaternary, thousands to tens of thousands of years old) are
  particularly prone to developing groundwater arsenic problems (World Bank, 2005).
  Although the mechanism for the mobilization of arsenic remains unclear, the presence of
  reducing (anaerobic) conditions in the affected aquifer has been recognized as a key risk
  factor for high-arsenic groundwater. Slow groundwater movement also appears to be impor-
  tant (World Bank, 2005). As a consequence, high arsenic concentrations in groundwater do
  not necessarily correspond with areas where rock or sediment has the highest arsenic lev-
  els; rather, they occur where chemical conditions are most suitable for mobilization, usually
  reducing conditions. This is particularly important when planning the drilling of tubewells.
           Concentrations of arsenic can be significant, and major health effects can occur due
  to exposure through drinking-water. Therefore, arsenic has been included in the list of “must
  consider” chemicals noted in Chapter 2. It is especially important to consider arsenic before
  establishing a new drinking-water source.
                                                           Practical comments on selected parameters | 129




        The concentrations of arsenic are usually, but not always, stable. Where concentra-
tions are likely to be stable (i.e. deep groundwater), monitoring would normally only need to
take place infrequently. Where water supplies for populations are subject to treatment to
remove arsenic, samples are normally best taken at the treatment works, where the fre-
quency of monitoring should be sufficient to ensure that the process is effective.
        Additional and more detailed information on arsenic can be obtained from World
Bank (2005) and WHO-UN (no date).

Asbestos
Asbestos can arise from natural sources and from asbestos cement pipe. Exposure to
asbestos fibres through drinking-water is not considered to cause health effects in humans;
also, the analysis is difficult and expensive.

Barium (Ba)
High concentrations of barium may occur in groundwater in areas with granitic rocks, felsic
metamorphic rocks or sedimentary rocks. Concentrations may be high where groundwater
contains little or no sulfate (generally where chloride is the dominant anion). There is no evi-
dence to date that exposure to barium through drinking-water has caused health effects in
consumers. Should monitoring be required, it would normally be most appropriate at the treat-
ment works or the source.

Beryllium (Be)
Beryllium is primarily found in effluent from specialist metalworking. No formal guideline value
has been proposed in the WHO guidelines because beryllium is considered unlikely to occur
in drinking-water. It is, therefore, unusual for monitoring to be required.

Boron (B)
Boron concentrations may commonly exceed drinking-water guideline values in groundwater
in areas with granitic or volcanic rocks. In areas where there are large accumulations of evap-
orites, boron concentrations may be high, but in these areas water is sometimes too saline for
drinking without advanced drinking-water treatment (e.g. desalination). Boron can also result
from wastewater discharges.
         Boron is very difficult to remove from water and is not usually encountered at concen-
trations of concern. Should monitoring be required, this is likely to be infrequent and at the
treatment works or the source.

Bromate
See disinfectants and disinfection by-products.
130




  Cadmium (Cd)
  Cadmium is a heavy metal with similar chemical properties to zinc, but is much less common
  in the environment than zinc. Cadmium occurs in igneous rocks and some sedimentary rocks,
  and is generally associated with zinc ore minerals like sphalerite, and with a range of copper
  ore minerals. Traces of cadmium are often present in artificial fertilizers, and this heavy metal
  may accumulate in soils in areas that have been used for agriculture for long periods.
          Concentrations of cadmium in water are only likely to be of health concern in environ-
  ments where pH is less than 4.5.
          Other cadmium sources can include solder, galvanized pipes and metal fittings, pollu-
  tion from disposal of cadmium-containing materials and from mining operations (see Chapter 7).
  However, concentrations of cadmium in drinking-water above the guideline value are unusual.

  Chloride
  Chloride can originate from natural and human-made sources, such as sewage and industrial
  effluents. Where salt is used for de-icing, chloride can contaminate groundwater through road
  drainage. Upland and mountain water supplies are usually low in chlorides, whereas, concen-
  trations are generally higher in rivers and groundwater. The main operational issue for chlo-
  ride is its ability to increase the corrosiveness of water, particularly in low alkalinity water. High
  concentrations of chloride may result in a detectable taste in water, but consumer acceptabil-
  ity varies widely depending on the form of chloride (e.g. NaCl, KCl and CaCl2). Should moni-
  toring be necessary, this would usually be at the treatment works. The frequency would
  depend on the variability in the source water, but would normally be low.

  Chlorinated alkanes and alkenes
  Chlorinated alkanes are usually found as contaminants only in groundwater. They are gener-
  ally present due to careless use or disposal to the soil surface of the chlorinated alkanes used
  as solvents in industrial processes. These chemicals do not degrade readily in groundwater
  and can be present for long periods. An assessment of whether such solvents are used in the
  catchment would be appropriate before considering a monitoring programme.
          Chlorinated alkenes are similar to chlorinated alkanes. The two chlorinated solvents
  most frequently found in groundwater are trichloroethene and tetrachloroethene. Although
  not used as a solvent, 1,2-dichloroethene may be found due to the breakdown of other
  alkenes. Vinyl chloride may occur as a breakdown product of other chlorinated alkenes, but is
  most likely to be found in water as a consequence of the leaching from polyvinyl chloride
  (PVC) water pipes, which contain high residuals of vinyl chloride. This chemical is usually best
  controlled through product specifications.

  Chlorinated benzenes
  Chlorinated benzenes are widely used in industry and are sometimes encountered in drink-
  ing-water from surface sources. They usually give rise to taste and odour problems at concen-
  trations below the health-based guideline value, where one has been proposed.
                                                           Practical comments on selected parameters | 131




Chlorite and chlorate
See disinfectants and disinfection by-products

Chromium (Cr)
High concentrations of chromium may occur naturally in groundwater in areas with mafic or
ultramafic volcanic or metamorphic rocks (i.e. rocks that consist mainly of ferromagnesian
minerals with no quartz).
        Chromium is usually found in drinking-water at concentrations well below guideline
values. However, it has been found at higher concentrations from industrial pollution or min-
ing discharges (See Chapter 7). Generally, it would only require investigation for monitoring if
there were indications that a problem might exist. Measurement would normally take place in
final water from the treatment works.

Conductivity
Conductivity is included as an indicator parameter. The electrical conductivity of water is eas-
ily measured in the field using a conductivity electrode. It is an indirect measure of the total
dissolved solids (TDS) content of water, and there is usually an approximately linear relation-
ship between TDS and conductivity. Increasing conductivity over time in water indicates that
one or more inorganic constituents are also increasing; this situation should trigger further
investigations.

Copper (Cu)
Copper is usually found at very low concentrations in final drinking-water, but concentrations
can increase significantly in buildings with copper pipes if the water is aggressive (dissolves
metals from pipes and fittings). Concentrations are most likely to increase after the water has
stood in the pipes for a few hours. Copper has been shown to cause acute gastrointestinal
discomfort and nausea at concentrations above about 3 mg/L. Monitoring for copper there-
fore needs to take place at the tap. However, meaningful monitoring usually requires a spe-
cific strategy to be developed because concentrations will vary from property to property.
High copper levels give rise to staining of sanitary ware. Unless a particular problem has been
demonstrated, monitoring would not normally be considered to be necessary or would at least
be infrequent.

Cyanide
Cyanide occurs naturally only in geothermal water in volcanic areas. However, it is a common
contaminant in groundwater and surface water in gold mining areas, particularly near deposits
of processed tailings, as a consequence of industrial discharges (see Chapter 7), and is a
major cause of concern through spills.
       While there is no documented evidence of health effects caused by exposure to
cyanide in drinking-water in normal circumstances, potentially high concentrations from spills
must be managed to prevent these concentrations penetrating drinking-water supplies.
132




           Exposure, especially from industrial activity, would generally only be intermittent. This
  means that monitoring is difficult and would normally only be carried out in response to a par-
  ticular incident or circumstance where cyanide was known to be present. Fish can be used as
  an indicator of high cyanide levels, because they are particularly sensitive to its effects.

  Disinfectants and disinfection by-products
  Disinfectants are usually only monitored to ensure that disinfection has taken place. Certain
  disinfectants, such as chlorine, are sometimes monitored at the tap or in the distribution sys-
  tem, as a measure of the quality in distribution. A wide range of potential by-products of dis-
  infection may be formed in treatment, particularly if natural organic matter is present at high
  concentrations. The most commonly monitored by-products are the trihalomethanes (THMs)
  formed through chlorination; THMs are normally considered to be an adequate marker of the
  total disinfection by-products from chlorination. Some countries also monitor haloacetic
  acids, but these are difficult and expensive to analyse because of their high polarity. Bromate
  is sometimes measured when ozone is used, but its formation relates to bromide concentra-
  tions in the raw water and the conditions of ozonation. Analysis can be extremely difficult
  and monitoring is not usually considered except where standards have been set or on an
  infrequent basis.
           When chlorine dioxide is used as a disinfectant, chlorite and chlorate are formed as
  by-products. These are sometimes monitored, but control can be achieved by control of the
  dose of chlorine dioxide applied. Chlorate may also form in significant quantities in hypochlo-
  rite that is stored for an extended period, particularly at higher ambient temperatures; again,
  it is best controlled by management procedures.

  Dissolved oxygen
  Dissolved oxygen is included as an indicator parameter. It can be measured in the field using
  a dissolved-oxygen electrode. The dissolved-oxygen content of water depends on its source,
  temperature, and chemical and biological processes taking place in the water distribution sys-
  tem. Therefore, measurements can only be used in a relative, not an absolute, sense. How-
  ever, large declines in dissolved oxygen in a water source could indicate high levels of micro-
  biological activity, and should trigger further sampling for microorganisms.
           Dissolved oxygen is not usually a candidate for routine monitoring unless a specific
  problem is recognized.

  Edetic acid and nitrilotriacetic acid
  Edetic acid (EDTA) and nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) have been widely used as sequestering
  agents for calcium and other metals. They are very soluble in water and difficult to analyse.
  However, they are of relatively low toxicity and are unlikely to require routine monitoring
  except in exceptional circumstances.
                                                          Practical comments on selected parameters | 133




Eh (oxidation-reduction or redox potential)
Many chemical reactions in water involve the transfer of electrons between chemical con-
stituents. Electron transfer is measured with an electrode assembly that includes an inert
metallic electrode (usually platinum). Eh is a measure of the extent to which these reactions
can take place. A high positive Eh potential indicates oxidizing conditions where chemical
species such as oxygen, nitrate and sulfate may be present in water. Very low negative Eh val-
ues indicate reducing conditions with no oxygen and where chemical species such as ferrous
iron and hydrogen sulfide are frequently present. Very low Eh values in water are often indica-
tive of pollution containing large amounts of organic carbon, such as leachate from septic
tanks or landfill sites. Rapid changes in Eh should trigger an investigation as to the cause.

Fluoride (F)
Fluoride occurs in rocks in many geological environments. High concentrations of fluoride
may occur in groundwater in areas with granitic, acid volcanic, sodium-rich (alkaline) igneous
or volcanic rocks, and in some sedimentary and metamorphic terrains. Widespread dental
mottling is a health indicator that water contains high concentrations of fluoride, although
other sources (e.g. food) may be equally important.
        Fluoride is one of the chemical contaminants that must be considered, because high
fluoride levels in drinking-water are a major source of adverse human health effects in some
parts of the world.

Haloacetic acids
See disinfectants and disinfection by-products

Hardness
Hardness is a natural feature of waters, reflecting calcium and magnesium, as carbonates,
bicarbonates and sulfates. It is normally very stable and would only require analysis if there
was concern about scale formation in distribution and in plumbing in buildings. Low hardness
may be a consideration if assessing the level of plumbing-related metals in water at the tap.

Hexachlorobutadiene
Hexachlorobutadiene is widely used as an industrial chemical. It has been identified in efflu-
ent from chemical manufacturing, but has also been found as a contaminant in chlorine gas
used for disinfection. Control should, therefore, be primarily through specifications on the
quality of chlorine gas. Monitoring would normally be considered only if a specific problem
was identified by catchment assessment.
134




  Hydrocarbons
  Aromatic hydrocarbons are used as solvents; they are found in petrol and diesel. They are not
  normally found in drinking-water except as a consequence of spills and or leaking storage
  facilities. Aromatic hydrocarbons are usually detected by taste and odour at concentrations
  well below the health-based guideline value. Styrene is sometimes found due to the use of
  certain pipeline materials (e.g. glass-reinforced plastic) that have not been cured properly.
  Routine monitoring is normally unnecessary, unless a potential problem has been recognized.
  Aromatic hydrocarbons are sometimes found, having leached from polyethylene pipes. Thus,
  monitoring in response to an incident or problem may be more effective at the tap rather than
  at the treatment works.
            Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are usually only found in drinking-water as
  a consequence of leaching from coal-tar linings on cast-iron water mains. The PAH of great-
  est concern is benzo(a)pyrene, but the most commonly encountered is fluoranthene.
  Benzo(a)pyrene is normally only detected at significant concentrations in water when parti-
  cles of coal tar are present.

  Hydrogen sulfide
  Hydrogen sulfide arises in anaerobic conditions when sulfides are hydrolysed. It causes an
  unpleasant odour of rotten eggs at very low concentrations as it is lost to air. It is not normally
  monitored because it is not found in well-aerated systems. If it is detected by smell, it indi-
  cates that the system is anaerobic.

  Iron (Fe)
  There is no health-based guideline value for iron, although high concentrations do give rise to
  consumer complaints because the iron discolours aerobic waters at concentrations above
  about 0.3 mg/L. Iron is found in natural freshwaters and in some groundwaters. It may also
  be present from its use as a coagulant in water treatment or through corrosion of cast-iron
  water pipes. It is controlled at the treatment works by optimizing treatment, and in distribution
  systems by a structured programme of maintenance.

  Lead (Pb)
  Lead is widely dispersed in the environment, occurring in a variety of sedimentary rocks, and
  in felsic igneous and metamorphic rocks, where it may reach high concentrations in veins
  associated with hydrothermal fluids. Under pH conditions generally found in natural waters,
  lead has a low solubility. Concentrations of lead in water are only likely to be of significance
  in environments where pH is less than 4.5, and it is very rarely found in water at treatment works.
           When found in drinking-water, lead usually arises from lead pipes and lead solder,
  mostly from plumbing in buildings. Monitoring is quite difficult and requires samples to be
  taken at the tap. Assessing the presence of lead pipes, or the ability of the water to dissolve
  lead, are the most appropriate management approaches. Monitoring is only considered if sig-
  nificant resources are available.
                                                          Practical comments on selected parameters | 135




Manganese (Mn)
Manganese occurs in groundwaters and surface waters that are low in oxygen; it often occurs
with iron. When it is oxidized in aerobic waters, manganese precipitates as a black slimy
deposit, which can build up in distribution to cause severe discolouration at concentrations
above about 0.05 mg/L. The health-based guideline value is 0.4 mg/L. Monitoring is only
likely to be required for operational reasons where a potential problem has been identified, in
which case, final water from the treatment works would normally be the most appropriate
sample site.

Mercury (Hg)
Mercury is a rare element in the Earth’s crust. It is only relatively concentrated in some vol-
canic areas and in mineral deposits as a trace constituent of ores of other heavy metals. Mer-
cury concentrations in groundwater and surface waters rarely exceed 1 μg/L.
        High concentrations of mercury may occur in groundwater and surface water supplies
in gold-mining areas where mercury has been used for gold extraction.
        The guideline value for mercury is conservative because it is based on the provisional
tolerable weekly intake (PTWI) for methylmercury, which is more toxic than mercury. Monitor-
ing would normally only be justified if mercury were known to be present due to unusual cir-
cumstances, such as an industrial or mining discharge.

Molybdenum (Mo)
Molybdenum is a relatively rare element in the Earth’s crust, but is commonly associated with
base metal sulfide deposits, usually being present as the mineral molybdenite MoS2.
High concentrations of molybdenum may occur in groundwater in mining areas where sulfide
ores contain the mineral molybdenite. Monitoring would normally not be justified unless there
were clear indications that high levels of molybdenum were likely to be present.

Nickel (Ni)
Nickel has a similar chemical behaviour to iron and cobalt, and commonly substitutes for iron
in ferromagnesian minerals.
        High concentrations of nickel may occur in groundwater in areas with mafic or ultra-
mafic rocks. Concentrations of nickel in water from natural occurrences are only likely to be
of health concern in environments where pH is less than 4.5 or where groundwater pumping
has introduced oxygen into an anaerobic aquifer.
        Nickel may also be released from some industrial sources (e.g. nickel plating) and
from chromium plating of taps and fittings in which nickel is the base layer. A monitoring pro-
gramme for nickel in drinking-water would generally only be required if a specific source of
pollution were known.
136




  Nitrate/nitrite
  Naturally high nitrate concentrations may occur in groundwater in semiarid or arid areas
  where there is widespread termite activity, or where natural vegetation is dominated by legu-
  minous species such as acacias. However, nitrate is usually found in groundwater and surface
  water due to agricultural activity or leaking effluent from on-site sanitation.
            High nitrate concentrations can cause methaemoglobinaemia (blue-baby syndrome)
  in bottle-fed infants. This condition is also associated with the simultaneous presence of bac-
  terial contamination. The primary approach to managing nitrate contamination is prevention,
  particularly for rural wells, which are the major problem with regard to methaemoglobinaemia.
  In particular, protection of wells from runoff from fields and siting of manure stores, pit latrines
  and septic tanks will help to prevent contamination with nitrate and microbial pathogens.
            Nitrite has a similar action to nitrate, but is usually only found at very low concentra-
  tions. It is sometimes formed in water distribution systems when monochloramine is used as
  a residual disinfectant. Nitrite and nitrate need to be considered together, but monitoring for
  nitrite is difficult because formation will be in the distribution system. Nitrate levels in surface
  waters can change quite quickly, but levels in groundwater usually change very slowly unless
  the groundwater is heavily influenced by surface water.

  Organotins
  The dialkyltins can be used as stabilizers in PVC pipes. They normally leach in very low con-
  centrations, but if control were required, this would be through product specification.

  Pesticides
  See Appendix 3.

  pH
  pH is important as an operational parameter, particularly in terms of the efficacy of chlorina-
  tion or optimizing coagulation. Additionally, dissolution and mobility of metals in natural waters
  are greatly influenced by the pH.

  Radon (Ra)
  Radon is a colourless, odourless gas that is produced by the radioactive decay of radium that
  occurs naturally in minerals.
           Groundwater may contain high concentrations of radon and its daughters in areas
  where bedrock naturally contains high levels of radioactivity. This includes areas with granitic
  rocks, and sediments with phosphate nodules or heavy mineral sand deposits. Management
  of radon in drinking-water is by aeration, in which case it is important that there is adequate
  ventilation of houses, because a significant proportion of radon in water will be lost to the
  atmosphere.
                                                           Practical comments on selected parameters | 137




Selenium (Se)
Selenium has a similar chemical behaviour to sulfur, and often occurs associated with sulfide
minerals in a wide range of rocks.
         High concentrations of selenium may occur in groundwater in semiarid or arid areas,
near known mineral deposits containing sulfide minerals of uranium and vanadium. Irrigated
agriculture may substantially increase concentrations in groundwater in areas with high sele-
nium levels in soil.
         High selenium concentrations are generally only found in groundwater with oxidizing
conditions in arid areas (Hem, 1989). In areas where there is a large amount of organic mat-
ter in soils, selenium is generally relatively immobile in water.
         Selenium is one of the few substances that have been shown to cause adverse
human health effects as a consequence of exposure through drinking-water, although it is an
essential element and in many parts of the world there is a deficiency. It is, therefore, impor-
tant to consider selenium in developing new sources in areas where selenium is suspected.
Where selenium is present, monitoring at the treatment works would be appropriate.

Silver (Ag)
Silver is not normally found at significant concentrations in drinking-water, but it is sometimes
used as a bacteriastat impregnated in activated carbon used in point-of-use filters. It is very
unlikely that monitoring of drinking-water would be appropriate.

Sodium (Na)
Sodium can be found in drinking-water at concentrations in excess of 20 mg/L as a conse-
quence of the use of more saline waters. There is no indication of health effects in the gen-
eral population associated with high sodium levels in drinking-water, although such water may
not be suitable for bottle-fed infants. Concentrations in excess of 200 mg/L may give rise to
taste problems. Routine monitoring for sodium is unlikely to be a high priority.

Sulfates
The sulfate anion (SO42-) is a common constituent in natural water and is usually present in
at least mg/L concentrations. While WHO has decided that it is not necessary to develop
a health-based drinking-water guideline value for this anion, concentrations in excess of
500 mg/L sulfate may cause a noticeable taste.

Tin (Sn)
Inorganic tin has not been found at concentrations of concern in drinking-water. No guideline
value was considered necessary, and tin is not discussed further in this document.
138




  Total dissolved solids
  Total dissolved solids (TDS) primarily consist of inorganic salts. Although there are no direct
  health concerns, high concentrations may be objectionable through taste. Regular monitoring
  is not usually considered a high priority.

  Tributyltin oxide
  Tributyltin oxide (TBTO) was widely used as a wood preservative and antifungal agent. It is
  less widely used now because of its extremely high toxicity to shellfish and its potential
  impact on the aquatic environment. It has rarely been identified in drinking-water and there-
  fore no health-based guideline value has been proposed. Monitoring would not normally be
  considered unless a specific problem had been identified.

  Trihalomethanes
  See disinfectants and disinfection by-products.

  Uranium (U)
  Uranium is widely distributed in the geological environment, but concentrations are particu-
  larly high in granitic rocks and pegmatites, and in areas where there is sulfide mineralization.
  The WHO provisional drinking-water guideline value for uranium is 15 μg/L but there are
  uncertainties regarding whether concentrations above this would be of concern. Some coun-
  tries have drinking-water standards for uranium of up to 30 μg/L.
           Uranium has been found in many parts of the world at concentrations in excess of
  30 μg/L and so is considered a high-priority constituent.

  Zinc (Zn)
  Zinc is usually only found at very low concentrations in raw waters but can be increased by
  dissolution of zinc from galvanized pipes. Concentrations above about 3 mg/L can give rise to
  problems with appearance and taste of the water. A monitoring programme for zinc is unlikely
  to be necessary unless particular problems have been encountered.


  References
  WHO (2004). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 3rd ed., Volume 1:
  Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

  WHO (2006). Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 1st Addendum to the 3rd ed.,
  Volume 1: Recommendations, World Health Organization, Geneva.

  WHO/United Nations Synthesis Report on Arsenic in Drinking Water (no date).
  (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/arsenic3/en/).

  World Bank (2005). Arsenic contamination of groundwater in South and East Asian coun-
  tries: Towards a more operational response, Washington, DC.
                                                                                                         | 139




Index
Acid mine drainage (AMD) 63, 65–66                    Cadmium (Cd) 89, 130
Acidity 15, 38                                        Carbofuran 89
          irrigation drainage water 49                Carbon tetrachloride 75, 89
          potential 38                                Catchment information 38
          see also pH                                 Chemicals
Acrylamide 77, 79, 86                                           agricultural activities 43–49
Adipates 127                                                    categories of sources 06
Administrative context 04–05                                    factors affecting concentrations 15–16
Adsorption 15                                                   health-based targets 14, 23–24
Aesthetic effects 13, 33, 102–104                               human settlements 53–59
Agricultural activities, chemicals from 43–49, 110              identifying priority see Identifying
          data sources 43                                            priority chemicals
          intensive animal practices 46                         industrial activities 63–70
          irrigation and drainage 48–49                         naturally occurring 33–39
          manures, fertilizers and biosolids 44, 45             pathways for transport 14
          nitrate levels 45                                     priority 16–17, 21
          pesticides 47–48, 117–121                             routes of exposure 13
Alachlor 86                                                     water treatment and distribution 75–79
Aldicarb 86                                           Chloral hydrate 89
Aldrin 86                                             Chloramine see Monochloramine
Algal toxins 38–39, 127                               Chlorate 75, 76, 79, 89, 132
Aluminium 102, 127                                    Chlordane 89
          from coagulants 76–77, 79                   Chloride 33, 102, 130
          pH effects 15                               Chlorinated alkanes and alkenes 89, 130
Aluminium hydroxide flocs 66                          Chlorinated benzenes 89, 130
Aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) 94                  Chlorinated solvents 59, 130
Ammonia (NH3) 102, 128                                Chlorination by-products 76, 79, 132
Animal manures 44, 45                                 Chlorine 75–76, 79, 90, 102
Animal production, intensive 46                       Chlorine dioxide 76, 79, 132
Antimony 86, 128                                      Chlorite 76, 79, 90, 132
Aquifers, vulnerability 16                            Chloroform 90
Aromatic hydrocarbons 87, 134                         2-Chlorophenol 102
Arsenic 87, 128–129                                   Chlorophenols 90, 100, 102, 104
          health hazards 34                           Chlorotoluron 90
          priority status 16, 21, 35                  Chlorpyrifos 90, 117
Asbestos 129                                          Chromium (Cr) 90, 131
Atrazine 59, 87                                       Climate 36–37, 45
                                                      Coagulant aids 77, 79
Barium (Ba) 87, 129                                   Coagulants 76–77, 79
Bentazone 87                                          Conductivity 131
Benzene 58, 87                                        Consumer complaints 13, 33, 102–104
Benzo[a]pyrene 87, 134                                Control, feasibility of 05
Beryllium (Be) 88, 129                                Copper (Cu) 91, 102, 131
Beverage industry 111                                           in acidic water 15
Biological degradation 16                                       from pipework 78, 79
Biosolids 44, 45, 55                                  Corrosivity 78
Blooms, algal 39, 127                                 Crops and crop types 117–121
Blue-baby syndrome 16, 136                            Cyanazine 91
Blue-green algae 38–39, 127                           Cyanide 66, 91, 131–132
Boron (B) 88, 129                                     Cyanobacteria 38–39, 127
Bromate 75, 76, 79, 88, 132                           Cyanogen chloride 91
Bromodichloromethane 88
Bromoform 88
140




  2,4-D 91                                                  Feedlots 46
  Data sources                                              Fenitrothion 94
           agricultural chemicals 43                        Fenoprop 94
           human settlement-derived chemicals 55            Fertilizers, chemical 44, 45, 111
           industrial chemicals 63–64                       Fluoranthene 94
           naturally occurring chemicals 34–35              Fluoridation, water 77
  2,4-DB 91                                                 Fluoride (F) 94, 133
  DDT and metabolites 91, 117                                          health hazards 34
  Degradation, biological 16                                           priority status 16, 21, 35
  Detergents, synthetic 103                                 Food manufacturing 110
  Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate 93                                Forestry 110
  1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane 92                            Formaldehyde 94
  Dibromoacetonitrile 91                                    Fuel oils 53
  Dibromochloromethane 91                                   Fuel storage sites 58
  1,2-Dibromoethane 92
  Dichloroacetate 92                                        Gaseous emissions, industrial 68
  Dichloroacetonitrile 92                                   Geological information 35, 36–37, 38
  1,2-Dichlorobenzene 92, 102                               Glyphosate 94
  1,4-Dichlorobenzene 92, 102                               Gold extraction 65, 66
  Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) 91, 117             Groundwater, vulnerability 16
  1,2-Dichloroethane 92                                     Guideline values, health-based 86–100
  1,1-Dichloroethene 92                                     Guidelines 05, 22
  1,2-Dichloroethene 92, 130                                Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO 2004
  Dichloromethane 92                                                 and 2006) 04, 22, 85
  2,4-Dichlorophenol 102
  1,2-Dichloropropane (1,2-DCP) 93                          Haloacetic acids (HAAs) 76, 132
  1,3-Dichloropropene 93                                    Hardness 133
  Dichlorprop 93                                            Health-based guideline values 86–100
  Dieldrin 86                                               Health-based targets 14, 23–24
  Dilution 15                                               Health hazards 13, 34
  Dimethoate 93                                             Heptachlor 95
  Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate 93                              Heptachlorepoxide 95
  Diquat 93                                                 Herbicides 47, 59
  Disease surveillance data 13                                       associations with crops 117–121
  Disinfectants 75–76, 79, 132                              Hexachlorobenzene 95
  Disinfection by-products 75–76, 79, 132                   Hexachlorobutadiene 95, 133
  Dissolved oxygen 35, 132                                  Hot springs 34
  Drainage, irrigation and 48–49                            Human excrement 44, 55
  Drinking-water                                            Human settlements 53–59
           identifying priority chemicals see Identifying            chlorinate solvents 59
                 priority chemicals                                  data sources 55
           probability of consumer exposure 13                       fuel storage sites 58
           quality see Water quality                                 public health and vector control 59
                                                                     sewage systems and on-site sanitation
  Edetic acid (EDTA) 93, 132                                              55–56
  Eh (redox potential) 35, 133                                       sources of chemicals 53, 54
  Electricity 113                                                    urban runoff 57–58
  Endosulfan 93                                                      waste disposal 56–57
  Endrin 94                                                 Hydrocarbons 134
  Epichlorohydrin 77, 79, 94                                Hydrogen sulfide 103, 134
  Epidemiological studies 13
  Ethylbenzene 58, 94, 102                                  Identifying priority chemicals 13–17, 21
  Excrement, human 44, 55                                             with limited information 14
  Exposure, routes of 13                                              naturally occurring chemicals 35–39
  Extractive industries 63, 64–67                                     principles 13
                                                            Indicator parameters 35
                                                                                                      | 141




Industrial activities, chemicals from 63–70,        Mixing 15
               109–113                              Molinate 96
          data sources 63–64                        Molybdenum (Mo) 96, 135
          extractive industries 64–67               Monitoring, operational 25
          manufacturing and processing industries   Monochloramine (chloramine) 75, 76, 79, 97, 103
               67–69                                Monochloroacetate 97
          pathway considerations 69–70              Monochlorobenzene 97, 103
Insecticides
          associations with crops 117–121           National standards and guidelines 05, 22
          public health usage 59, 117               Natural gas production 63, 64, 65
          see also Pesticides                       Naturally occurring chemicals 33–39
Intensive animal production 46                                 aesthetic effects 33
Interagency committee 05                                       data sources 34–35
International standards and guidelines 05                      environmental influences 34, 36–37
Ion-exchange resins 77                                         guidance on identifying 35–39
Iron (Fe) 103, 134                                             health hazards 34
          in acidic water 15                                   indicator parameters/simple tests 35
          aesthetic effects 33                      Nickel (Ni) 97, 135
          from coagulants 76–77, 79                 Nitrate 03, 97, 136
          corrosion products 77–78, 79                         agricultural sources 44, 45
          indicator parameters/simple tests 35                 factors affecting levels 45
          priority status 17, 21                               priority status 16, 21, 35
Irrigation 48–49                                    Nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) 97, 132
Isoproturon 95                                      Nitrite 76, 79, 98, 136

Landfill 56                                         Oil production 63, 64–67
Larvicides 117                                      Operational monitoring 25
Latrines 55                                         Operational problems, chemicals causing 13
Lead (Pb) 95, 134                                   Organotins 136
          from pipework 78, 79                      Oxidation-reduction potential (Eh) 35, 133
          priority status 17                        Oxygen, dissolved 35, 132
Leather industry 111                                Ozone 76, 79
Legislation 22
Lindane 95                                          Paper industry 111
                                                    Pendimethalin 98
Malathion 95                                        Pentachlorophenol 98
Management procedures 26                            Permethrin 98
Manganese (Mn) 95, 103, 135                         Pesticides 43, 47–48
         aesthetic effects 33                                 associations with crops 117–121
         indicator parameters/simple tests 35                 manufacture 111
         priority status 17, 21                               public health usage 59, 117
Manufacturing industries 63, 67–70, 110–113         Petroleum
Manures, animal 44, 45                                        extractive industries 64, 65
MCPA 96                                                       products, manufacture 111–112
Mecoprop 96                                                   spills and leaks 53, 58
Mercury (Hg) 96, 135                                pH 15, 35, 136
Metals                                                        corrosivity and 77–78
         extractive industries 64, 65, 110                    naturally occurring chemicals and 38
         manufacturing industries 112–113           Phthalates 127
         water pH effects 15                        Pipes, water distribution 77–78
         see also specific metals                   Plastics manufacture 111–112
Methaemoglobinemia 16, 136                          Policy 04–05, 22
Methoxychlor 96                                     Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) 134
Methyl tertbutyl ether (MTBE) 58                    Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes 78, 79, 130
Metolachlor 96                                      Preventive management strategy 22
Microcystin-LR 96, 127                              Processing industries 63, 67–70
Microorganisms, degradation by 16                   Public health 59, 117
Mineral production 63, 64–67                        Pyriproxyfen 91, 98, 117
Mining 35, 36–37, 63, 64–67, 110
142




  Quality see Water quality                    Uranium 65, 100, 138
  Quarrying 63, 110                            Urban areas see Human settlements
                                               Urban runoff 57–58
  Radon (Ra) 136
  Rainfall 45                                  Vector control 59, 117
  Redox potential (Eh) 35, 133                 Verification 25
  Resources, availability of 05                Villages see Human settlements
  Risk management strategies 06, 07            Vinyl chloride 78, 79, 100, 130
           developing and implementing 21–26   Volatilization 15
           need for guidance 03
                                               Waste disposal 56–57
  Sanitation, on-site 55–56                    Wastewater
  Selenium 98, 137                                      feedlots 46
            effect of irrigation 48                     human settlements 55–56
            health hazards 34                           industrial activities 65, 66, 67–69
            priority status 16, 21, 35         Water distribution systems, chemicals used 75,
  Septic tanks 55                                       77–78, 79
  Settlements, human see Human settlements     Water quality
  Sewage sludge 44, 55                                  assessing 21
  Sewage systems 55–56                                  availability of data 13, 14, 22
  Silver (Ag) 137                                       health-based targets 24
  Simazine 98                                           surveillance 26
  Sludge                                       Water safety plan 23
            industrial waste 68–69             Water supply systems
            sewage 44, 55                               assessment 25
  Slurries 44                                           operational monitoring 25
  Sodium (Na) 103, 137                                  operations and maintenance problems 13
  Sodium hydroxide 77                          Water table 45
  Solid wastes 56–57, 68–69                    Water treatment 14, 15
            see also Biosolids                          chemicals used 75–77, 79
  Solids, total dissolved (TDS) 131, 138       WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES) 04
  Solvents, chlorinated 59, 130                Working group, multidisciplinary 06
  Standards 05, 22
  Stormwater 57–58                             Xylenes 58, 100, 104
  Styrene 98, 103, 134
  Sulfates 33, 103, 137                        Zinc (Zn) 104, 138
  Surveillance                                          from pipework 78, 79
            disease 13                                  water pH effects 15
            water quality 26
  Systems, water see Water supply systems

  2,4,5-T 99
  Terbuthylazine (TBA) 99
  Tests, simple 35
  Tetrachloroethene 99, 130
  Textile manufacture 111
  Tin (Sn) 137
  Toluene 58, 99, 104
  Total dissolved solids (TDS) 131, 138
  Towns see Human settlements
  Transport 113
  Tributyltin oxide (TBO) 138
  Trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral hydrate) 89
  Trichloroacetate 99
  Trichloroacetonitrile 99
  Trichlorobenzenes 99, 104
  1,1,1-Trichloroethane 100
  Trichloroethene 100, 130
  2,4,6-Trichlorophenol 100, 104
  Trifluralin 100
  Trihalomethanes (THMs) 76, 79, 100, 132
couv_ARP   25.9.2007   15:35   Page 2
couv_ARP   16.3.2007   7:30   Page 1




                               Concern for chemical contamination of drinking water is
                               increasing in both developing and developed countries world-
                               wide; however, too often, effective risk management is ham-
                               pered by a lack of basic information. Simple, practical tools are
                               needed by those responsible for developing effective policies
                               and making practical decisions in relation to water quality, to
                               deal with the increasing use of chemicals in industry, agricul-
                               ture, homes and water supply systems themselves.

                               In this book, an international group of experts has brought together
                               for the first time a simple, rapid assessment methodology to assist
                               in identifying real priorities from the sometimes bewildering list of
                               chemicals of potential concern. Simply applied, at national or local
                               levels, the approach allows users to identify those chemicals that
                               are likely to be of particular concern for public health in particular
                               settings. The methodology has been tested in the real world in a
                               series of applications in seven countries; in any given setting, it
                               led rapidly to the identification of a short list of priorities.




                                                                                                        Assessing priorities for risk management
                                                                                                        Chemical safety of drinking-water:
                               This text will be invaluable to public health authorities, those
                               responsible for setting drinking water standards and regula-                                                        Chemical safety
                               tions, drinking water supply surveillance agencies and water
                               suppliers. The approaches described are universally applicable
                               and will be of particular value in settings where information on
                                                                                                                                                   of drinking-water:
                               actual chemical quality of drinking water is limited.                                                               Assessing priorities
                               This document is part of the WHO response to the challenge of
                               emerging chemical hazards in drinking-water. The now well-
                                                                                                                                                   for risk management
                               documented recognition of arsenic as a problem chemical in
                               drinking water in South Asia is the best known of these emerg-
                               ing hazards, but is accompanied by other known and yet-to-be-
                               recognised hazards. Applying the methodology described will
                               help in using limited resources to best effect, responding to
                               known concerns and identifying under-appreciated future issues.
