 Calcium and
Magnesium in
Drinking-water
 Public health
 signiﬁcance
 Calcium and
Magnesium in
Drinking-water
 Public health
  signiﬁcance
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data

Calcium and magnesium in drinking-water : public health significance.

   1.Potable water - standards. 2.Water - analysis. 3.Calcium - administration and dosage.
   4.Magnesium deficiency. 5.Calcium metabolism disorders. I.World Health
   Organization.

   ISBN 978 92 4 156355 0                                           (NLM classification: QV 276)



                               © World Health Organization 2009

All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained from WHO Press,
World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264;
fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail: bookorders@who.int). Requests for permission to reproduce or
translate WHO publications – whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution – should be
addressed to WHO Press, at the above address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; e-mail:
permissions@who.int).

The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the
expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the
legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation
of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which
there may not yet be full agreement.

The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers products does not imply that they
are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a
similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary
products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the
information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed
without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation
and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be
liable for damages arising from its use.

Cotruvo J, Bartram J, eds. Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water : Public health significance,
Geneva, World Health Organization, 2009.

Printed in Spain.
Contents




Preface                                                                v
Acknowledgements                                                      vii
List of acronyms and abbreviations                                     x

Chapter 1: Expert consensus                                            1
Meeting of Experts Report

Chapter 2: Overview of global dietary calcium and magnesium intakes
and allowances                                                        16
S.A. Atkinson, R. Costello and J.M. Donohue

Chapter 3: The mineral composition of water and its contribution to
calcium and magnesium intake                                          36
C.N. Ong, A.C. Grandjean and R.P. Heaney
iv   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Chapter 4: Identifying magnesium deficiency: A diagnostic dilemma         57
R.J. Elin

Chapter 5: Magnesium deficiency: Clinical and experimental aspects        60
W.B. Weglicki

Chapter 6: Magnesium and hypertension                                     66
R.M. Touyz and B. Sontia

Chapter 7: Atherosclerosis and magnesium                                  75
B.M. Altura and B.T. Altura

Chapter 8: Health significance of calcium and magnesium: Examples
from human studies                                                        82
G.F. Combs, Jr and F.H. Nielsen

Chapter 9: Calcium and magnesium: Role of drinking-water in relation
to bone metabolism                                                        94
C.M. Weaver and J.W. Nieves

Chapter 10: Epidemiological studies and the association of cardiovascular
disease risks with water hardness                                         108
R. Calderon and P. Hunter

Chapter 11: Alternative hypotheses and knowledge gaps                    143
J.K. Fawell

Chapter 12: Water production, technical issues and economics             152
P. Regunathan

Glossary                                                                 165
Index                                                                    170
Preface




This document identifies knowledge gaps and recommends research priorities in
order to build an evidence base to inform decisions on managing “processed”
drinking-water. This is important because of increasing consumption of water
arising from advanced treatment processes such as desalination and uncertainty
about the resulting heatlh implications.
    The World Health Organization (WHO) assembled a diverse group of
nutrition, medical, epidemiological and other scientific experts and water
technologists at the Pan American Health Organization in Washington, DC,
USA, on 27–28 April 2006 to address the possible role of drinking-water
containing calcium and/or magnesium as a contribution to the daily intake of
those minerals. The overarching issue addressed was whether consumption of
drinking-water containing a relatively small contribution to total daily dietary
intake of calcium and/or magnesium would provide positive health benefits,
especially with respect to cardiovascular disease mortality (the so-called “hard
water cardiovascular disease benefits hypothesis”), in the population, particu-
larly in people whose dietary intake was deficient in either of those nutrients.
The meeting of experts immediately followed the International Symposium on
Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, which was
organized by NSF International and the International Life Sciences Institute in
Baltimore, MD, USA.
vi   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




    The impetus for the meeting originated from the process for developing
WHO guidance for health and environmental aspects of water desalination,
which was initiated by the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean,
located in Cairo, Egypt. The meeting was also intended to contribute to the
Fourth Edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (to be
published in 2010) in respect to nutrients in drinking-water and water hardness
as they influence drinking-water quality and health.
     The nutritional essentiality and benefits from sufficient dietary intakes of
calcium and magnesium are well established but quantitatively imprecise. Many
of the ecological epidemiological studies conducted since the mid-1950s have
supported the hypothesis that extra magnesium and/or calcium in drinking-water
can contribute to reduced cardiovascular disease and other health benefits in
populations. However, most of those studies did not cover total dietary intake
and other important factors. Several analytical epidemiological studies that were
conducted supported the hypothesis that magnesium correlated best with bene-
ficial effects on cardiovascular mortality rates.
    The goal of the meeting of experts was to elucidate the role of drinking-water
as a contributor to total daily intake of calcium and magnesium and to determine
whether there is a plausible case that drinking-water could be an important
health factor, especially for cardiovascular disease mortality, at least for people
whose dietary intake is deficient in either of those nutrients. The report of the
meeting of experts is the first chapter in this volume.
    The remaining chapters provide background information on the scientific,
nutritional and technological issues that were discussed by the meeting of
experts and the symposium participants and that contributed to the report of the
meeting of experts. Among the numerous issues addressed were the
concentrations and distributions of minerals in drinking-water worldwide,
nutritional requirements, biochemical and biomedical aspects of minerals in the
body, technologies such as water softening and desalination that significantly
alter the mineral composition of drinking-water, the desirability and feasibility
of remineralization for stabilization and potential benefits, and the availability of
information on water composition so that the public can make informed
judgements with respect to their options for bottled water, softened water and
naturally soft water. It is hoped that this publication will advance knowledge
and contribute to further discussions on these and related issues in this area.
Acknowledgements




The World Health Organization (WHO) wishes to express its appreciation to all
those whose efforts made the production of this book possible, in particular
Joseph Cotruvo (Joseph Cotruvo & Associates, Washington, D.C., USA) and
Jamie Bartram (Coordinator, Assessing and Managing Environmental Risks to
Health, WHO Headquarters), who were the book’s editors. The international
participants who attended the meeting of experts on 27–28 April 2006 in
Washington, DC, USA, and who contributed to the development of individual
chapters in this book were as follows:

   Houssain Abouzaid, Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, WHO,
      Cairo, Egypt
   Avner Adin, Faculty of Agricultural, Food and Environmental Sciences,
      Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel
   Stephanie A. Atkinson, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University,
      Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
   Jamie Bartram, WHO Headquarters, Geneva, Switzerland
   Rebecca Calderon, National Health and Environmental Effects Research
      Laboratory, United States Environmental Protection Agency, Durham,
      NC, USA
viii Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Gerald Combs, Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center, Agricultural
      Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Grand Forks,
      ND, USA
   Rebecca Costello, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institutes of
      Health, Bethesda, MD, USA
   Joseph Cotruvo, Joseph Cotruvo & Associates, LLC and NSF International
      WHO Collaborating Centre, Washington, DC, USA
   Joyce Donohue, Office of Water, Office of Science and Technology, United
      States Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, USA
   Ronald J. Elin, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
      University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA
   John Fawell, Consultant, High Wycombe, Bucks, United Kingdom
   Ann C. Grandjean, Center for Human Nutrition, Omaha, NE, USA
   Suzanne Harris, International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, DC, USA
   Paul Hunter, School of Medicine, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK
   Frantisek Kozisek, Centre of Environmental Health, National Institute of
      Public Health, Prague, Czech Republic
   Margreet N. Mons, Chemical Water Quality & Health, Kiwa Water
      Research, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands
   Richard W. Morris, Department of Primary Care & Population Sciences,
      University College London, London, United Kingdom
   Choon Nam Ong, Department of Community, Occupational and Family
      Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore
   Perialwar (Regu) Regunathan, Regunathan & Associates Inc., Wheaton, IL,
      USA
   Martha Sinclair, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine,
      Monash University, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Australia
   Shailendra Vajpeyee, Government Medical College and New Civil Hospital,
      Surat, Gujarat, India
   Jan Peter van der Hoek, Amsterdam Water Supply, Amsterdam, The
      Netherlands
   Connie M. Weaver, Foods and Nutrition, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
      IN, USA
   William Weglicki, Division of Experimental Medicine, George Washington
      University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA

   WHO also wishes to express its appreciation to contributing authors of
chapters in this book who were not participants in the meeting of experts:
                                                           Acknowledgements   ix




   B.M. Altura, Departments of Physiology, Pharmacology and Medicine, New
      York Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA
   B.T. Altura, Departments of Physiology, Pharmacology and Medicine, New
      York Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA
   R.P. Heaney, Creighton University, Omaha, NE, USA
   F.H. Nielsen, Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center, Agricultural
      Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Grand Forks,
      ND, USA
   J.W. Nieves, Helen Hayes Hospital and Mailman School of Public Health,
      Columbia University, West Haverstraw, NY, USA
   B. Sontia, Kidney Research Centre, Ottawa Health Research Institute,
      University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
   R.M. Touyz, Kidney Research Centre, Ottawa Health Research Institute,
      University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

   Marla Sheffer of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, was responsible for editing the
final monograph. Special thanks are due to Penny Ward, Assessing and
Managing Environmental Risks to Health, WHO, Geneva, who provided
administrative support for the meeting and to the development of this book.
   WHO wishes to express its gratitude to NSF International and the Inter-
national Life Sciences Institute for organizing the symposium that preceded the
meeting of experts. The preparation of this document could not have been
possible without the generous support of the United Kingdom Drinking Water
Inspectorate, the American Water Works Association Research Foundation, the
Office of Dietary Supplements of the United States National Institutes of Health
and the National Water Research Institute, Fountain Valley, California, USA,
and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan.

    Finally, WHO would like to express its condolences to the family and
colleagues of Dr. Hirotoshi Morii, physician, researcher on osteoporosis and
emeritus professor at Osaka City University, who passed away unexpectedly
shortly before the International Symposium on Health Aspects of Calcium and
Magnesium in Drinking Water. He would have been a session chairman at the
symposium and a member of the meeting of experts.
List of acronyms
and abbreviations




AI      Adequate Intake
ATP     adenosine triphosphate
COX-2   cyclo-oxygenase-2
CVD     cardiovascular disease
DRI     Dietary Reference Intake
EAR     Estimated Average Requirement
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GCC     Gulf Cooperation Council
HIV     human immunodeficiency virus
IFN-   interferon-gamma
IHD     ischaemic heart disease
IL      interleukin
iNOS    inducible nitric oxide synthase
IOM     Institute of Medicine (USA)
iPTH    intact parathyroid hormone
                                    List of acronyms and abbreviations   xi




IU       International Unit
L-NAME   NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester
LPS      lipopolysaccharide
mRNA     messenger ribonucleic acid
NF-KB    nuclear factor-Kappa B
NHANES   National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (USA)
NMDA     N-methyl-D-aspartate
NOS      nitric oxide synthase
NTU      nephelometric turbidity unit
OR       odds ratio
PAF      platelet-activating factor
POE      point of entry
POU      point of use
PTH      parathyroid hormone
RDA      Recommended Dietary Allowance
RNI      Recommended Nutrient Intake
ROS      reactive oxygen species
RR       relative risk; risk ratio
SD       standard deviation
SEM      standard error of the mean
SI       Saturation Index
SMase    sphingomyelinase
SP       substance P
TDS      total dissolved solids
TIC      total inorganic carbon
TNF-    tumour necrosis factor-alpha
UL       Tolerable Upper Intake Level
USA      United States of America
VSM      vascular smooth muscle
WHO      World Health Organization
1


Expert consensus
Meeting of Experts Report




1.1 INTRODUCTION
Both calcium and magnesium are essential to human health. Inadequate intake
of either nutrient can impair health. Recommended daily intakes of each element
have been set at national and international levels.
   Food is the principal source of both calcium and magnesium. Dairy products
are the richest sources of dietary calcium, contributing over 50% of the total
calcium in many diets. Some plant foods, including legumes, green leafy
vegetables and broccoli, can also contribute to dietary calcium, but the content is
lower than in dairy products, and the bioavailability of calcium in plant foods
can be low if the concentration of oxalate or phytate is high. Dietary sources of
magnesium are more varied; dairy products, vegetables, grain, fruits and nuts
are important contributors.
   Individuals vary considerably in their needs for and consumption of these
elements. Available evidence suggests that, because of food habits, many people
in most countries fail to obtain from their diets the recommended intakes of one
2   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




or both of these nutrients. While the concentrations of calcium and magnesium
in drinking-water vary markedly from one supply to another, mineral-rich
drinking-waters may provide substantial contributions to total intakes of these
nutrients in some populations or population subgroups. Water treatment
processes can affect mineral concentrations and, hence, the total intake of
calcium and magnesium for some individuals.
   On the basis of the findings of the World Health Organization (WHO)
meeting of experts held in Rome, Italy, in 2003 to discuss nutrients in drinking-
water (WHO 2005), the present group focused its consideration on calcium and
magnesium, for which, next to fluoride, evidence of health benefits associated
with their presence in drinking-water is strongest. The present group also noted
that the issue of fluoride was addressed by the Rome meeting in detail and
adopted its review and recommendations (see below). In addition, the group
concluded that other elements may also have health relevance and should be
considered by future groups.


1.2 CALCIUM
Over 99% of total body calcium is found in bones and teeth, where it functions
as a key structural element. The remaining body calcium functions in
metabolism, serving as a signal for vital physiological processes, including
vascular contraction, blood clotting, muscle contraction and nerve transmission.
   Inadequate intakes of calcium have been associated with increased risks of
osteoporosis, nephrolithiasis (kidney stones), colorectal cancer, hypertension
and stroke, coronary artery disease, insulin resistance and obesity. Most of these
disorders have treatments but no cures. Owing to a lack of compelling evidence
for the role of calcium as a single contributory element in relation to these
diseases, estimates of calcium requirement have been made on the basis of bone
health outcomes, with the goal of optimizing bone mineral density. Calcium is
unique among nutrients, in that the body’s reserve is also functional: increasing
bone mass is linearly related to reduction in fracture risk.

1.2.1 Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is a condition of skeletal fragility characterized by low bone mass
and by microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue, with a consequent
increase in risk of fracture. Calcium is the largest constituent of bone,
comprising 32% by weight. A large body of primary evidence from randomized
controlled trials shows that increasing calcium intake, especially in those who
have had habitually low calcium intakes, increases bone mass during growth and
                                                               Expert consensus   3




reduces bone loss and fracture risk late in life. Osteoporosis is one of the most
prevalent of age-related diseases.

1.2.2 Kidney stones
The relationship between calcium intake and the incidence of kidney stones is
dependent on whether calcium is consumed with food or separately. Calcium
that reaches the lower small intestine actually protects against kidney stones by
binding oxalic acid (a precursor to common kidney stones) in foods and
reducing its absorption. Calcium ingested from water together with food would
have the same effect. Epidemiological evidence is strong that dietary calcium
reduces the incidence of kidney stones. In contrast, the results of a large
randomized trial1 suggest an increased risk of kidney stones associated with
calcium supplements, possibly because the calcium was not ingested with food
or the supplements were taken by those who exceeded the upper level of 2500
mg/day.

1.2.3 Hypertension and stroke
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a risk factor for several diseases. It is an
important health problem especially in developed countries, but also in
developing countries. Although hypertension is multifactorial in origin,
adequate calcium intake has been associated with lowered risk of elevated blood
pressure in some, but not all, studies. A clear mechanism has not been
identified. Dairy products, more than calcium, per se, have been associated with
reduced blood pressure in randomized prospective studies and with reduced risk
of stroke in prospective studies.

1.2.4 Insulin resistance
Insulin resistance is associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus, the prevalence of
which is escalating with the rise in obesity worldwide. Dietary calcium may be
implicated in the etiology of insulin resistance through the fluctuations in
calcium-regulating hormones in states of calcium sufficiency and deficiency.
This is an area of active research; thus, it is premature to use such a clinical
outcome as the basis for deriving recommendations for dietary intake of
calcium.


1
 From the Women’s Health Initiative, a 15-year programme established by the United
States National Institutes of Health in 1991.
4   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




1.2.5 Vulnerable populations
Those individuals who avoid dairy products or lack access to them may be at
increased risk of calcium deficiency. Formula-fed infants will not normally be at
risk from deficient or excess amounts of calcium. Even extremely low or high
calcium concentrations in water would not lead to absorption of unphysiological
amounts of calcium from infant formula reconstituted with the water. If,
however, other feeds are used that do not provide the calcium content of full-
strength formula, then water may represent an important source of the mineral
for the infants.

1.2.6 Excess calcium intakes
To a great extent, individuals are protected from excess intakes of calcium by a
tightly regulated intestinal absorption mechanism through the action of 1,25-
dihydroxyvitamin D, the hormonally active form of vitamin D. When absorbed
calcium is in excess of need, the excess is excreted by the kidney in most
healthy people. Concern for excess calcium intake is directed primarily to those
who are prone to milk alkali syndrome (the simultaneous presence of hyper-
calcaemia, metabolic alkalosis and renal insufficiency) and hypercalcaemia.
Although calcium can interact with iron, zinc, magnesium and phosphorus
within the intestine, thereby reducing the absorption of these minerals, available
data do not suggest that these minerals are depleted when humans consume diets
containing calcium above the recommended levels. For example, even though
high intakes of calcium can exert acute effects on iron absorption, there is no
evidence of reduced iron status or iron stores with long-term calcium supple-
mentation.


1.3 MAGNESIUM
Magnesium is the fourth most abundant cation in the body and the second most
abundant cation in intracellular fluid. It is a cofactor for some 350 cellular
enzymes, many of which are involved in energy metabolism. It is also involved
in protein and nucleic acid synthesis and is needed for normal vascular tone and
insulin sensitivity. Low magnesium levels are associated with endothelial
dysfunction, increased vascular reactions, elevated circulating levels of C-
reactive protein and decreased insulin sensitivity. Low magnesium status has
been implicated in hypertension, coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus
and metabolic syndrome.
                                                           Expert consensus   5




1.3.1 Hypertension
Magnesium deficiency has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension,
with some epidemiological and experimental studies demonstrating a negative
correlation between blood pressure and serum magnesium levels. However, data
from clinical studies have been less convincing.

1.3.2 Cardiac arrhythmias
Cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular and atrial origin have been reported in
patients with hypomagnesaemia. Indeed, a serious cardiac arrhythmia, Torsade
de Pointes, is treated with intravenous magnesium therapy.

1.3.3 Pre-eclampsia
Pre-eclampsia (defined as hypertension after 20 weeks of gestation) with
proteinuria has been treated with magnesium salts for many decades. A recent
clinical trial (Altman et al. 2002) using magnesium sulfate showed a 50%
decreased risk of eclampsia.

1.3.4 Atherosclerosis
Animal studies have documented an inverse (protective) relationship between
magnesium intake and the rate or incidence of atherosclerosis.

1.3.5 Coronary heart disease
In humans, there is evidence for an inverse (protective) relationship between
magnesium and coronary heart disease. Three cross-sectional studies have now
documented an inverse relationship between the concentration of C-reactive
protein (a proinflammatory marker that is a risk factor for coronary heart
disease) and magnesium intake or serum magnesium concentration, suggesting
that magnesium may have an anti-inflammatory effect.

1.3.6 Diabetes mellitus
Several studies have documented the importance of magnesium in type 2
diabetes mellitus. Two recent studies have documented an inverse (protective)
relationship between magnesium intake and risk of developing type 2 diabetes
mellitus. Oral magnesium supplementation improves insulin sensitivity and
metabolic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
6   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




1.3.7 Magnesium depletion status
Alcoholism and intestinal malabsorption are conditions associated with
magnesium deficiency. Certain drugs, such as diuretics, some antibiotics and
some chemotherapy treatments, increase the loss of magnesium through the
kidney.

1.3.8 Hypermagnesaemia
The major cause of hypermagnesaemia is renal insufficiency associated with a
significantly decreased ability to excrete magnesium. Increased intake of
magnesium salts may cause a change in bowel habits (diarrhoea), but seldom
causes hypermagnesaemia in persons with normal kidney function.

1.3.9 Gastrointestinal function
Drinking-water in which both magnesium and sulfate are present in high
concentrations can have a laxative effect, although data suggest that consumers
adapt to these levels as exposures continue. Laxative effects have also been
associated with excess intake of magnesium taken in the form of supplements,
but not with magnesium in diet.


1.4 EPIDEMIOLOGICAL EVIDENCE
A large number of studies have investigated the potential health effects of
drinking-water hardness. Most of these have been ecological epidemiological
studies and have found an inverse relationship between water hardness and
cardiovascular mortality. Inherent weaknesses in the ecological epidemiological
study design limit the conclusions that can be drawn from these studies.
   Based on identified case–control and cohort studies,1 there is no evidence of
an association between water hardness or calcium and acute myocardial

1
  Case–control and cohort studies are more useful than ecological epidemiological studies
for investigating cause-and-effect relationships. Seven case–control studies and two
cohort studies of acceptable quality investigating the relationship between calcium or
magnesium and cardiovascular disease or mortality were identified in the literature. Of
the case–control studies, one addressed the association between calcium and acute
myocardial infarction and three the association between calcium and death from
cardiovascular disease. None found a positive or inverse correlation between calcium and
either morbidity or mortality. Two examined the relationship between magnesium and
acute myocardial infarction, finding no association. Five examined the relationship
between magnesium and cardiovascular mortality; while some failed to yield statistically
significant results, collectively they showed similar trends of reduced cardiovascular
                                                                  Expert consensus   7




infarction or deaths from cardiovascular disease (acute myocardial infarction,
stroke and hypertension). There does not appear to be an association between
drinking-water magnesium and acute myocardial infarction. However, the
studies do show a negative association (i.e. protective effect) between cardio-
vascular mortality and drinking-water magnesium. Although this association
does not necessarily demonstrate causality, it is consistent with the well known
effects of magnesium on cardiovascular function.


1.5 DRINKING-WATER
Water is essential for hydration and, therefore, for life. It is also very important
in food preparation and cooking, sanitation and hygiene and a wide range of
other uses. Drinking-water supply has a primary objective of protecting human
health, including ensuring access to adequate quantities of safe water. It has
been estimated that approximately 17% of the world’s population uses water
from unprotected and remote sources, 32% from some form of protected source
and 51% from some sort of centralized (piped) system to the dwelling or plot.
Of the latter, a small but increasing proportion applies some form of treatment
within the home. Individual water consumption occurs both at home and
elsewhere, such as at schools and workplaces. Drinking-water is consumed not
only as water per se but also in beverages and incorporated into foodstuffs. In
response to increasing global and local water scarcity, there is increasing use of
sources such as recovered/recycled waters, harvested rainwater and desalinated
waters.

1.5.1 Conditioning of water for piped distribution
Conditioning of water, including central softening and stabilization, may be
necessary to reduce corrosion of piping materials and/or scaling effects in
installations and to improve consumer acceptability. Corrosion and scaling can
be associated with adverse effects on health (from leachates such as lead) and
the environment (from leachates such as copper if the water is not conditioned)
and reduced lifespan of the distribution network and appliances using water.
When conditioning is done, the target is normally to achieve bicarbonate
equilibrium, suitable pH and alkalinity and limited concentrations of sulfate,

mortality as magnesium concentrations in water increased. Statistically significant
benefits (where observed) generally occurred at magnesium concentrations of about 10
mg/l and greater. The cohort studies examined the relationship between water hardness
(rather than calcium or magnesium content) and cardiovascular disease or mortality and
found no association.
8   Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




nitrate and chloride. Modification of calcium and magnesium concentrations in
drinking-water for health reasons must comply with the technical requirements
to provide water suitable for distribution and must not compromise disinfection.

1.5.2 Organoleptic considerations
Dissolved minerals contribute to the taste of drinking-water to varying degrees.
Acceptability of water will usually depend on the individual user’s taste and
familiarity. Especially high or low mineral content may be considered
unpalatable by consumers. Concentrations of calcium and magnesium in water
that are detectable by consumers are typically above those that are considered
manageable in drinking-waters.

1.5.3 Desalination
A rapidly growing technique for producing new water is desalination of
seawater and brackish water, in which water with a high dissolved solids content
is converted to water with a very low dissolved solids content. This water is
stabilized before distribution in order to avoid corrosion of piped distribution
systems. Practices in stabilization typically involve blending the desalinated
water with un-desalinated source water (seawater or naturally occurring
brackish groundwater) or adding minerals and alkalinity from, for example,
limestone. The stabilization process modifies the water composition, potentially
reintroducing sodium, chloride and miscellaneous salts, depending on the
source. Typically, if 1% seawater is used for post-treatment blending, this would
introduce magnesium at approximately 12–17 mg/l and calcium at approx-
imately 4–5 mg/l into the finished water.
   Stabilization practices should ensure that the overall process does not
significantly reduce total intake of nutrients such as calcium, magnesium and
fluoride. Based on local circumstances, public health authorities may wish to set
a requirement to further modify final drinking-water composition in light of
overall mineral nutrition.

1.5.4 Water reuse
Globally, there is extensive indirect wastewater use, in that the water is
extracted from sources that have inputs from wastewater discharges. Planned
indirect potable reuse of wastewater, where wastewater discharges are sited
close to drinking-water extraction points, is a growing source of drinking-water
in some localities. For such planned reuse, enhanced treatment steps are usually
employed.
                                                              Expert consensus   9




   The total dissolved solids content of domestic wastewater is greater than that
of the original drinking-water. In some settings, the wastewater is treated by
membrane technologies to reduce the levels of total dissolved solids, as well as
for purification. If groundwater recharge or groundwater storage is part of the
process, additional stabilization may be needed after withdrawal of the water
and prior to its distribution.
   Treatment and stabilization practices should ensure that the overall process
does not significantly reduce total intake of nutrients such as calcium,
magnesium, fluoride and others below recommended values. Based on local
circumstances, water suppliers and public health authorities may wish to further
modify final drinking-water composition in light of overall mineral nutrition.

1.5.5 Packaged water
Packaged waters, which can be spring or mineral waters or bottled tap waters,
form an increasingly utilized source of drinking-water in both developed and
developing countries. Because of extreme variation in the mineral composition
of marketed bottled waters, with levels of total dissolved solids ranging from
almost zero to several thousand milligrams per litre and with a similar variation
in concentrations of essential elements, the public should have access to
information on the mineral composition of bottled or packaged water.

1.5.6 Naturally soft water
Naturally soft water can have aggressive properties towards the piping material
through which it is distributed. To avoid adverse health, environmental and
economic effects due to the corrosion of piping materials, the water is normally
conditioned or stabilized. Frequently, this involves increasing the alkalinity
and/or adding corrosion-inhibiting substances (e.g. phosphates) in some form.
The choice for the most appropriate conditioning technology will depend on
local circumstances (e.g. water quality issues, piping materials, corrosion).
Based on local circumstances, water suppliers and public health authorities may
wish to further modify drinking-water composition in light of overall mineral
nutrition.

1.5.7 Collected rainwater
Rainwater collection refers to collection at the household or local community
level for local use. Rainwater is soft and usually slightly acidic. If it is
distributed through a piped system, the same considerations as for naturally soft
10 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




water apply. In some settings, marble chips (calcium carbonate) are added to
rainwater storage tanks. This will contribute to calcium intake and corrosion
prevention.

1.5.8 Point-of-entry and point-of-use devices
Point-of-entry ion exchange (water softener) devices are used in some
households to remove hardness (calcium, magnesium) and iron from water.
Each divalent ion (e.g. Ca2+ or Mg2+) in the water is replaced by two sodium
ions. Softening will have several aesthetically beneficial effects inside the home,
such as reducing scaling in pipes, fixtures and water heaters and improving
laundry and washing characteristics, but it also increases the sodium content of
the drinking-water.
   Point-of-use reverse osmosis and distilling devices remove virtually all the
minerals from the input water, functioning as a final barrier against potential
trace-level contaminants that may be present, as well as removing nutrients.
While this water need not be conditioned if materials not subject to corrosion
are used after the treatment, the resultant drinking-water is devoid of all
minerals. Use of these devices may result in the reduction of the overall intake
of nutrient minerals by the consumers in the households.
   Users of these devices should be made aware of the changes in mineral
composition that arise and the possible consequences for total nutrient intake
and human health. For example, those who sell or install these devices may be
encouraged to bring to the attention of the users of these devices the possibility
of reduced intake of minerals and various means for their replacement.
   Additionally, the manufacturers of these devices may provide a suitable
bypass of a portion of this water to maintain some level of these minerals in the
water actually consumed (e.g. to a kitchen tap) or develop and add an appro-
priate remineralizing unit in the water line prior to the point of consumption.

1.5.9 Further Issues
Any addition of minerals to water supplies must not lead to overall intakes that
exceed recommended maximum intakes.
   All suppliers of water, whether through a piped distribution system or
packaged/bottled waters, should make available to the consumer information on
the mineral content of their water in order to enable development of guidance to
vulnerable subgroups. Similar information should be provided by manufacturers
of domestic water treatment devices that alter mineral content.
   There are a number of possible approaches to ensuring that there is
calcium/magnesium sufficiency in populations, including high-risk groups.
                                                               Expert consensus 11




These would include dietary education, the introduction of supplementary
sources of calcium/magnesium, including in fortified or manufactured foods and
bottled water, introduction in manufactured drinking-water or modification of
drinking-water. However, different approaches will be appropriate according to
local requirements and circumstances in different parts of the world.
   Health authorities may wish to consider appropriate requirements for
consumer information in the context of overall nutritional guidelines and cost–
benefits of alternative interventions.


1.6 FLUORIDE IN REMINERALIZED DRINKING-WATER
Although fluoride was not discussed at length, the meeting of experts agreed to
carry forward the relevant recommendation from the 2005 WHO “Nutrients in
Drinking Water” report, which is summarized here.
   Most drinking-waters contain some fluoride. Fluoride is present in seawater
at concentrations of about 1.2–1.4 mg/l, in groundwater at concentrations
ranging from 0 to about 67 mg/l and in surface waters sometimes at
concentrations as low as 0.1 mg/l or less. Demineralization and some other
treatment processes will reduce levels of fluoride.
   Excessively high levels of fluoride intake cause crippling skeletal fluorosis
and possibly increased bone fracture risk. Ingestion of excess fluoride during
tooth development, particularly at the maturation stage, may also result in dental
fluorosis. These effects may be mitigated by co-exposure to some minerals, such
as calcium or magnesium.
   The recommended value for artificial fluoridation of water supplies is
generally between 0.5 and 1.0 mg/l and depends upon the volume of drinking-
water consumed daily and the uptake of and exposure to fluoride from other
sources. The WHO drinking-water guideline value for fluoride is 1.5 mg/l.
Where dental caries risk is high or increasing, authorities may consider addition
of fluoride to the demineralized public water supply to between 0.5 and 1.0
mg/l, but other factors should also be considered. In countries where dental
health awareness in the public is very high and alternative vehicles for fluoride
(e.g. fluoridated toothpaste) are widely available and widely used, a decision to
not fluoridate the water would likely be of little consequence. On the other hand,
in developing and developed countries where public dental health awareness in
some population groups (e.g. lower income) might be much lower, drinking-
water containing fluoride at concentrations of 0.5–1.0 mg/l would be important
for dental health. A decision to use demineralized water as a drinking-water
source without addition of fluoride during remineralization will depend upon the
concentration of fluoride in the existing local supply, the prevalence of risk
12 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




factors for dental caries (including sugar consumption), oral hygiene practices
and dental care, the level of public dental health awareness and the presence of
alternative vehicles for fluoride intake available to the whole population.


1.7 KEY KNOWLEDGE GAPS AND RESEARCH
    RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendations for research to fill key knowledge gaps are listed below. All
studies involving human subjects must, of course, follow appropriate ethical
guidelines for human research studies.

1.   Develop better information on global intakes of magnesium (by
     country) and population-specific intake requirements.

Rationale: Data on calcium intake and calcium requirements have recently been
compiled for numerous countries. However, comparable information is not
readily available for magnesium. Knowledge of local dietary intake of calcium
and magnesium from both food and water sources relative to needs is
fundamental to decisions about whether water might be a useful source of these
nutrients.

2.   Determine the bioavailability of calcium and magnesium from various
     types of drinking-water in the contexts of the usual diets of people in
     both healthy and vulnerable population groups.

Rationale: Controlled feeding studies employing waters of defined composition
are needed to determine calcium and magnesium net retention, the influence of
anions on excretion of calcium and magnesium and functional measures of
health in response to increasing doses of calcium and magnesium in water. It
would be of further value to test the efficacy of varying concentrations of
magnesium and calcium in water as a component of diets in which minerals are
likely well absorbed (i.e. low in oxalates and phytates) compared with those
high in these inhibitors of mineral absorption to provide context for the
heterogeneity of diets consumed worldwide.

3.   Conduct well designed epidemiological studies to elucidate the health
     implications of waterborne calcium and magnesium.

Rationale: Additional analytical epidemiological studies of improved design
(case–control or cohort) are required to elucidate the relationship between
                                                             Expert consensus 13




calcium and/or magnesium in drinking-water and health outcomes. Such studies
should assess the consumption of calcium and magnesium from both diet and
water. Data should also be collected on recognized cardiovascular risk factors,
such as smoking, blood lipids and physical activity. Study populations should
have a range of drinking-water concentrations to give an adequate range of
calcium and magnesium exposures. Studies utilizing cardiovascular death as an
end-point should consider multiple types of cardiovascular end-points (e.g.
stroke or sudden cardiovascular death) and set up criteria to reduce health end-
point misclassification. Biomarkers for calcium and magnesium status should be
developed and utilized.
   Historical data for health outcomes should be examined in communities that
have experienced significant changes in water composition to determine
whether related changes in disease rates have occurred. Health outcomes should
be monitored in communities where planned changes in water supply or
treatment would alter the calcium and/or magnesium concentrations; this should
include the use of biomarkers of both exposure and effect. These community
intervention studies should be conducted in multiple communities with a wide
range of exposures and over different time periods.
   Previously conducted cohort studies should be examined to determine
whether any may be suitable for reanalysis to determine relationships between
serum magnesium levels and drinking-water composition.
   Ongoing and planned prospective cohort studies should be examined to
determine the feasibility of including a water exposure component, particularly
in studies with the potential to examine multiple health outcomes (e.g. cardio-
vascular disease, osteoporosis and cancer).

4.   Identify vulnerable subgroups for which low intakes of calcium and
     magnesium present the greatest health risks.

Rationale: Large numbers of people avoid or lack access to dairy products and
other foods that are rich in calcium and/or magnesium. These groups should be
identified and the associated health risks determined with attention to the
threshold intakes associated with low risk. Such high-risk individuals should be
the first to benefit from minerals provided via drinking-water or other means of
supplementing mineral intakes.

5.   Improve the scientific basis for estimating human magnesium
     requirements and assessing magnesium status.
14 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Rationale: While experimental magnesium deficiency in humans has been
shown to alter heart rhythm, impair carbohydrate metabolism and perturb
calcium metabolism, the scientific basis for estimating magnesium requirements
is weak. Estimations of human magnesium requirements by metabolic balance
studies need to be augmented by measurement of fractional magnesium
absorption and by concurrent compartmental analysis of magnesium stable
isotope tracer kinetics. Compartmental analysis can yield information about
pool sizes and rates of transfer between pools, and parameters deduced from
such models can be used as markers of magnesium nutritional status.
Magnesium kinetics have been characterized in adolescent girls. Such studies
are needed for other vulnerable age–sex groups.
    Current tools available for assessing calcium and magnesium status provide
little information about the rate of intake, the physiologically functional pools
and, for magnesium, the body burden. This limits the informative value of
studies of both controlled clinical trials and epidemiological investigations.
These purposes will be served by developing biomarkers that are responsive to
the rates of intake of each nutrient and that can help to better define the
physiologically “normal” reference range for serum magnesium.

6.   Determine the effects of marginal magnesium intakes on risk factors
     for chronic disease.

Rationale: There is a need for studies designed to assess the interrelationships
between dietary magnesium intakes, indicators of magnesium status and risks of
osteoporosis, diabetes and heart disease. These efforts should address the health
impacts of suboptimal magnesium status such as are typical throughout the
world (intakes ~160 mg/day) and should include explicit efforts to develop
accurate and specific biomarkers of magnesium status.

     •   Osteoporosis. Available data suggest that magnesium deprivation can
         increase calcium imbalance and lead to an abnormal redistribution of
         tissue calcium, such that there may be increased risk of soft tissue
         (including aorta) calcification, despite concurrent bone degradation.
         Controlled feeding studies in humans are needed to determine the
         effects of marginal magnesium intakes on bone turnover, as
         supplementation studies have indicated that magnesium treatment can
         suppress serum biomarkers associated with bone turnover (osteocalcin,
         C-terminus of type I procollagen peptide, type I telopeptide), while
         marginal magnesium status increased serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D.
     •   Diabetes. Because all kinases and other ATP-related enzymes and
         channels regulating insulin action are dependent on magnesium, it is not
                                                                    Expert consensus 15




         surprising that serum magnesium concentrations have been found to be
         decreased in non-diabetic subjects with metabolic syndrome and that
         hypomagnesaemia is a common feature in subjects with type 2 diabetes
         mellitus. Whether low intracellular magnesium content is secondary to
         or precedes insulin resistance is unclear; however, recent evidence
         suggests that subclinical magnesium deficiency may precipitate a
         diabetic state. Studies are needed to determine the role of subclinical
         magnesium status in diabetes risk. These should include measures of
         glycosylated haemoglobin (haemoglobin A1c), an indicator of glycaemic
         control that has been found to respond to oral magnesium supple-
         mentation and to correlate negatively with serum ionized magnesium or
         serum total magnesium in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
     •   Cardiovascular health. In light of the epidemiological evidence for a
         relationship between magnesium and cardiovascular health, studies are
         needed to determine whether subclinical magnesium deficiency
         increases cardiovascular disease risk, particularly by affecting early
         inflammatory or oxidative stress indicators, such as substance P,
         interleukin-1, tumour necrosis factor- and C-reactive protein, each of
         which has been found to respond to magnesium deprivation in animal
         models and/or to vary inversely with serum magnesium.

7.   Re-examine both older and recent hypotheses that water low in total
     dissolved solids or acidic water increases excretion of some nutrients
     from the organism.

Rationale: Various experimental and epidemiological studies on humans and
animals published in the former Soviet Union and the Russian Federation since
the 1960s indicated that consumption of demineralized or low-mineral water
may lead to both acute and chronic changes in metabolism of certain minerals
and to higher incidence of several diseases. Recent experiments from Sweden
tested similar hypotheses, such as that consumption of acidic water (which is
usually water low in mineral content) enhances excretion of magnesium from
the body.


1.8 REFERENCES
Altman, D., Carroli, G., Duley, L., Farrell, B., Moodley, J., Neilson, J., Smith, D. and
    Magpie Trial Collaboration Group (2002) Do women with pre-eclampsia, and their
    babies, benefit from magnesium sulphate? The Magpie Trial: a randomised placebo-
    controlled trial. Lancet, 359(9321), 1877–1890.
16 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




WHO (2005) Nutrients in Drinking Water. World Health Organization, Geneva, 186 pp.
  (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
2


Overview of global dietary
calcium and magnesium
intakes and allowances
S.A. Atkinson, R. Costello and J.M. Donohue




2.1 INTRODUCTION
Calcium and magnesium are important nutrients in the development and
maintenance of human health. These dietary components (as well as phos-
phorus) are most strongly associated with the development of strong bones and
teeth and are essential to cardiovascular function. Approximately 99% of the
body’s calcium stores are found in bones and teeth, with small amounts in the
tissues and body fluids necessary for muscle contraction, nerve transmission and
glandular secretions. A smaller portion (50–60%) of the body’s magnesium is
found in bone. Magnesium is a cofactor for over 350 enzyme reactions, many of
which involve energy metabolism. It is also involved in protein and nucleic acid
18 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




synthesis and is needed for normal vascular tone and insulin sensitivity. Both
dietary calcium and dietary magnesium may play a role in the etiology of
osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease (IOM 1997).
     Nutrient recommendations are derived using a variety of approaches. Often
estimation of an average requirement is based on a biological distribution curve
for a specific end-point in a defined healthy population. If this distribution is
normal, the mean requirement of the population is the average requirement. If
the distribution is not normal, the data could be transformed, and the median
intake is then the average requirement. This “requirement” value is adjusted to
accommodate interindividual variation for the derivation of a recommended
value (“allowance”) that will meet the physiological needs of most individuals
in the population. Nutrient intake values for individuals are derived from the
variations in nutrient requirements and nutrient intakes of the specific popula-
tion. This derivation reflects an application of the average requirement.
   This chapter provides an overview of the global recommended dietary
calcium and magnesium intakes and allowances.


2.2 REFERENCE INTAKES
Nutrient-based dietary standards were first established in the United States in
the early 1940s (Mertz 2000). The current reference intake values for calcium
and magnesium, as described in the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) estab-
lished by the United States Institute of Medicine (IOM 1997), are composed of
four different values and are defined as follows:

   •    Estimated Average Requirement (EAR): The nutrient intake value that is
        estimated to meet the requirement defined by a specified indicator of
        adequacy in 50% of the individuals in a life stage or gender group.
   •    Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA): The average daily dietary
        intake level that is sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly
        all (97–98%) individuals in a life stage and gender group. Generally
        derived from the EAR using a 10% coefficient of variation as a default
        in the absence of nutrient-specific data on variability in the target
        population.
   •    Adequate Intake (AI): An estimate of the average nutrient intake by a
        group or groups of healthy people within a designated age, life stage
        and/or gender group. It is derived from the observed intakes of
        apparently healthy individuals in the subgroup of interest. AI values are
        established when there are insufficient data to derive an EAR, as was
        the case for calcium.
                                                      Dietary intakes and allowances 19




      •   Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL): The maximum level of a total
          chronic daily intake of a nutrient that is unlikely to pose risks of adverse
          effects to the most sensitive members of a healthy population.

  Table 2.1 lists the AIs for calcium and the AIs, EARs and RDAs for
magnesium from the DRI report of 1997 (IOM 1997).
Table 2.1. DRI values for calcium and magnesium (from IOM 1997)
                       Calcium intake
                         (mg/day)                   Magnesium intake (mg/day)
    Group                    AI                AI           EAR            RDA
    0–6 months              210                30
    7–12 months             270                75
    1–3 years               500                              65              80
    4–8 years               800                             110             130
    9–13 years              1300                            200             240
    14–18 years             1300                          340/300a        410/360a
    19–50 years             1000                          330/255a        400/310a
    >50 years               1200                          350/265a        400/310a
    Pregnancy
    <18 years              1300                              335             400
    19–30 years            1000                              290             350
    31–50 years            1000                              300             360
    Lactation
    <18 years              1300                              300             360
    19–30 years            1000                              255             310
    31–50 years            1000                              265             320
a
     Male/female.


2.3 DIETARY INTAKES OF CALCIUM AND
    MAGNESIUM
A number of different dietary assessment methods have been utilized in studies
to describe dietary intakes around the world. These approaches include food
frequency questionnaires, 24-h recall, food diaries and market basket analysis.
Each of these methodologies has its inherent limitations but provides a snapshot
of intakes for healthy populations as well as populations at risk for nutrient
insufficiency.
20 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Data on the dietary intakes of calcium and magnesium collected from a
variety of dietary studies published after the 1997 DRI report (IOM 1997) are
summarized in Tables 2.2 and 2.3. The studies ranged from those that tested
hypotheses related to specific nutrients and chronic diseases such as hyper-
tension or diabetes to those used to monitor nutrient intakes by specific
populations. Not only were different approaches employed in assessing dietary
intake, but the studies also varied in the population group samples (e.g. adults,
children or infants; males, females or mixed sexes). For the most part, the
studies selected did not involve dietary intervention. If data were abstracted
from an intervention study, only those for the control population or the study
population before intervention were used. Although some of the studies selected
involved measured use of supplements, the information on intake that included
the supplements was not used for this report. A number of recent reports,
however, provide data on supplement consumption in the United States
(Radimer et al. 2004; Archer et al. 2005).
Table 2.2. Reported ranges for calcium and magnesium intakes in the United States and
Canada compared with the recommended amounts set out as an AI or EARa

                       Calcium intake (mg/day)              Magnesium intake (mg/day)
                                        Dietary                                 Dietary
    Group                 AI            intake                  EAR             intake
    Adults (>18       1000–1200        466–880             255–265 female      168–319
    years)                                                  330–350 male
    Adolescents           1300          685–1390              200–340          164–185
    (9–18 years)
    Children (1–8        500–800         723–857               65–110             148–187
    years)
    Infants (<1          210–270         372–842             30–75 (AI)            33–140
    year)
a
     Sources: Millen et al. 1997; Humphries et al. 1999; Bell et al. 2002; Heaney et al.
     2002; Johnson et al. 2002; Abbott et al. 2003; IOM 2003; Mrdjenovic and Levitsky
     2003; Frary et al. 2004; Lancaster et al. 2004; Lappe et al. 2004; Bounds et al. 2005;
     Gilmore et al. 2005; Song et al. 2005; Townsend et al. 2005; Briefel et al. 2006; Daida
     et al. 2006.


2.2.1 Intakes in the United States and Canada
The 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (United States Department of
Agriculture and United States Department of Health and Human Services 2005)
reported that less than 60% of adult men and women in the United States met
the AI values for calcium and magnesium, and both calcium and magnesium
were listed as nutrients consumed in amounts low enough to be of concern.
                                                         Dietary intakes and allowances 21




Many children aged 9 years and older had intakes below the EAR for
magnesium. Median calcium intake was well below the AI for females
beginning at 9 years of age, although risk of deficiency cannot be determined
using an AI. Female adolescents aged 14–18 years demonstrated the most severe
shortfalls in intake for both magnesium and calcium (Suitor and Gleason 2002).
Table 2.2 provides an overview of reported intakes of calcium and magnesium
in the United States and Canada in the years between 1997 and 2006.
Table 2.3. Reported ranges for or usual calcium and magnesium intakes by adults in
countries other than the United Statesa

    Country/area         Calcium intake (mg/day)           Magnesium intake (mg/day)
    Canada                     757–1320                              209–279
    France                     881–1003                              284–377
    Guam                       743 ± 575                            270 ± 131
    Indonesia                      342                           Not determined
    Israel                      548–733                              228–270
    Japan                      660 ± 185                         Not determined
    Malaysia                    255–333                          Not determined
    Myanmar                        498                           Not determined
    Pakistan                   508 ± 139                         Not determined
    Philippines                    390                           Not determined
    Singapore                      482                           Not determined
    South Africa                438–577                              228–285
    Spain                         1267                                 366
    United Kingdom             755–1267                          Not determined
    Viet Nam                       488                           Not determined
    Adult DRI                1000–1200 (AI)                  255–265 female (EAR)
                                                              330–350 male (EAR)
a
    Sources: Monge-Rojas 2001; Galan et al. 2002; Troppmann et al. 2002; Jodral-Segado
    et al. 2003; Pobocik et al. 2003; Akhter et al. 2004; Nakamura et al. 2004; Charlton et
    al. 2005; Reimer et al. 2005; Shahar et al. 2005; Tee and Florentino 2005.


2.2.2 Global intakes
The survey data on adult intakes of magnesium are more varied than those for
calcium. Estimates made on a regional basis indicate a wide variation in dietary
calcium intakes, with the lowest intakes occurring in developing nations,
particularly those in Asia, as displayed in Table 2.3. Higher calcium intakes are
apparent in Europe and North America, largely due to the greater contributions
from animal products. Magnesium data from countries other than the United
22 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




States are limited but suggest that dietary magnesium values are more uniform
across cultures than those for calcium. However, dietary magnesium intakes are
still only marginally adequate when compared with the EAR for magnesium.
Similarly, the data demonstrate high variability in calcium and magnesium
contributions from drinking-water, reflecting the mineral content of the source
water (Galan et al. 2002; Jodral-Segado et al. 2003).


2.4 BIOAVAILABILITY OF NUTRIENTS
The biological effects of a nutrient are heavily dependent on its bioavailability.
A number of key factors determine the bioavailability of a nutrient. These
factors, which must be taken into account when determining nutrient intake
values, may include the chemical form in which the nutrient is presented to the
intestinal absorptive surface, the presence of competing foods or drugs in the
intestinal lumen, the concentration of food constituents (such as phytates and
other chelating agents) that bind to the nutrient and make it unavailable for
absorption, intestinal transit time and enzyme activity. The underlying nutri-
tional status of an individual can also play a role in determining the level of
absorption of a specific nutrient. The bioavailability of nutrients may also be
affected by the presence of other nutrients, as a nutrient may affect not only the
absorption of other nutrients, but also their transport, tissue uptake, function and
metabolism. Hence, concurrent ingestion of several nutrients may result in
synergistic, antagonistic or threshold effects. The effect of a single nutrient or of
multiple nutrients on bioavailability should be evaluated separately unless no
interactive or threshold effects can be found.
   The basis of recommended daily allowances for calcium and magnesium
varies between agencies. In many cases, the derivation of the recommended
intakes is not always clearly delineated; in some cases, values have been simply
adopted by one agency from the recommendations of another agency. A review
of reports finds that recommended intakes for a specific age and/or sex group
can vary widely. For example, in a review of calcium recommendations for
infants, children and youth (SCF 2003), recommended intakes for infants aged
6–12 months ranged from 270 to 650 mg/day and for children 1–4 years of age
ranged from 350 to 800 mg/day. If, ideally, we are to globally harmonize
nutrient-based dietary recommendations, an essential first step will be to deter-
mine a standard approach or model upon which to derive estimates of nutrient
needs. Sometimes it is valuable to conduct analyses using several approaches to
determine if they yield a similar estimate of nutrient requirement, thereby pro-
viding more confidence in the value derived.
                                                   Dietary intakes and allowances 23




2.5 OVERVIEW OF APPROACHES TO ESTABLISH
    RECOMMENDED INTAKES FOR CALCIUM AND
    MAGNESIUM
2.5.1 Calcium
2.5.1.1 Calcium intake data
For infants in the first half year of life, intake of mineral from a predicted
average volume of human milk is the basis for recommended intakes used in
most dietary standard reports. Such an approach supports the WHO (1996) and
multicountry recommendation of exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months
of life. From 6 to 12 months, the recommended intakes are usually based on the
amount consumed from a standard volume of human milk plus reported intakes
from solid foods. Because such an approach does not rely on a physiological or
functional outcome, but rather an observed intake in normal healthy infants, the
model is that of an adequate intake in contrast to an estimated average require-
ment or recommended daily intake.

2.5.1.2 Metabolic balance
Data from metabolic balance studies are frequently used to determine the intake
of mineral that will provide for zero balance in adults or the amount required for
growth, as estimated from accretion of calcium in bone in children and youth.
Problems in utilizing data from metabolic balance studies to derive estimated
requirements include the lack of an appropriate adaptation period, consideration
of the impact of dietary factors on bioavailability of the minerals and a lack of
dose–response data. The design of metabolic balance studies must provide a
sufficient duration of study to allow for systemic and intestinal adaptation to
variations in intake of mineral, which may include measurement of hormonal
homeostatic changes in response to intake or interaction effects with other
nutrients or food components in the diet (see chapter 9).
   For calcium, the approach taken by the joint United States/Canadian report
on DRIs (IOM 1997) was the intake required to achieve maximal calcium
retention based on calcium retention data from published reports of balance
studies that were conducted over a range of calcium intakes. For each age group,
the data were modelled to determine an estimate of calcium intake that provided
a desirable retention rate of calcium, which varied by life stage. The desirable
calcium retention in the DRI report was estimated based on peak bone mineral
accretion, which for calcium was 282 mg/day in males and 212 mg/day in
females between 9 and 19 years of age. Application of these estimates of
24 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




calcium accretion to both the maximal retention model and a factorial model
resulted in similar values, which were then adopted as AI recommendations of
1300 mg for children 9 through 18 years of age (IOM 1997). The Belgian
recommendations are just slightly lower, at 1000 mg for children 11–14 years of
age and 1200 mg/day for those 15–18 years of age (De Backer 2003). In reports
such as Recommended Dietary Allowances for the Caribbean (Committee of the
Expert Group on Caribbean Food and Nutrition Surveillance System 1994),
lower recommendations for calcium were made for adolescents (900 mg/day)
and adults (700 mg/day) on the premise that the population is primarily of
African origin, is fairly active and gets adequate amounts of sunshine and thus
may not need as much calcium for bone health. The Finnish recommendations
are also lower, at 900 mg for both males and females 10–17 years of age
(National Nutrition Council 1999). The recent recommendations from Mexico
(Bourges et al. 2005) and Australia (National Health and Medical Research
Council 2006) parallel those in the DRI report (IOM 1997), with the exception
that the Australian report recommends 1300 mg of calcium per day (compared
with 1200 mg) for adults over 50 years of age.
   Appreciable differences in the RDAs for calcium for every age group exist
among selected South-east Asian countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam). In setting the RDAs for most South-east
Asian countries, currently published reports were extensively consulted,
including the 2002 Expert Consultation on Recommended Nutrient Intakes for
Vitamins and Minerals of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) (FAO/WHO 2002),
the United Kingdom Department of Health’s Dietary Reference Values (Expert
Group on Vitamins and Minerals 2003) and the recommendations of the DRI
committee (IOM 1997). Given the habitually low intake of calcium by South-
east Asian women, the South-east Asian RDAs throughout pregnancy and
lactation were set at 1000 mg/day (Tee and Florentino 2005). This amount is
300 mg/day above the South-east Asian RDA for non-pregnant women (Tee and
Florentino 2005) but is the same as that recommended by FAO/WHO (2002)
and the DRI committee (IOM 1997) for pregnant women.

2.5.1.3 Factorial model
Another approach to setting recommended intakes for calcium utilizes the
factorial model, which is based on summing tissue accretion based on body
weights and known bone and/or lean tissue content of the mineral for children
and also for the fetus and mother in pregnancy, or for milk nutrient secretion
and maternal needs in lactating women. Data from metabolic balance studies
have been applied to derive obligatory losses as the principal determinant of
requirement in a factorial model. While data exist to estimate obligatory faecal
                                                   Dietary intakes and allowances 25




and urinary loss (estimated to be 160 mg/day for adults), there are no reliable
data on losses through sweat or sloughed skin or the small amount for con-
solidation of bone in the third decade (SCF 1993). For growing children and
youth, other reports have also considered the calcium needs for bone accrual in
establishing recommended intakes using a factorial model. The value applied for
absorptive efficiency may also vary between reports, but is usually of the order
of 30–35% for adults and 40% for children.
   Using this approach, the Scientific Committee on Food of the European
Commission placed recommended intakes for males 11–17 years of age at 1000
mg/day and for females at 800 mg/day (SCF 1993), while the DRI report set the
recommended AI at 1300 mg/day for both sexes (IOM 1997). In pregnancy,
recent studies demonstrated that adaptive maternal responses include increased
efficiency of absorption of calcium (via upregulation of the active hormone of
vitamin D, which then upregulates intestinal calcium absorption); thus, there
was no evidence for higher intake needs than for non-pregnant women (IOM
1997). Similarly, in lactation, biological adjustments during lactation and after
weaning result in no excess bone loss to cover the calcium secreted into milk, so
again the DRI report (IOM 1997) recommended intakes as for non-pregnant
women. In dietary standards published prior to the late 1990s, additional cal-
cium intakes are sometimes recommended during pregnancy (Committee of the
Expert Group on Caribbean Food and Nutrition Surveillance System 1994) and
lactation (SCF 1993; Committee of the Expert Group on Caribbean Food and
Nutrition Surveillance System 1994), but these pre-date the studies upon which
the DRI recommendations were made.

2.5.1.4 Extrapolation models
When biological data are not available to estimate recommendations, extrapola-
tion models adjusted for mean population-based body weights for age and sex
are applied to derive values for young children from recommendations for adults
or older children, or for older adults, by extrapolating up from younger adult
values. This is particularly true for older infants (7 months to 2 years) and for
children of preschool and school ages. Consideration should be given to the
difference across life stages in nutrient needs, not only for maintenance metab-
olism, but also for obligate losses and for growth, which are particularly large
during the phases of rapid growth in infancy, the preschool growth spurt and the
pubertal growth spurt (Koletzko et al. 1998). In extrapolating nutrient recom-
mendations for younger adults up to those for older adults, adjustment is usually
based on reference body weights of the two age groups, but such a direct
extrapolation does not account for differences in absorption or excretion of
nutrients owing to degenerative processes, metabolic rate or activity levels. This
26 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




underlines the importance of obtaining metabolic balance data on healthy
individuals across the various life stages.
   Models used for extrapolations include calculations based on body size or
metabolic turnover. In the first case, nutrient requirement is estimated to be
directly proportional to total body weight using age- and sex-appropriate
reference body weights, but these will vary between countries. Also, such an
extrapolation does not allow for variations between age groups in metabolic
rate, energy intake or basal metabolic rate. Extrapolation of values from adults
down to younger ages is often based on metabolic turnover, adjusting the values
derived for adults to the 0.75 power of body mass, which corrects for metabolic
differences related to body weight (Kleiber 1947; West et al. 2002). The
assumption inherent in this method is that the maintenance needs of the nutrient,
expressed with respect to metabolic weight, are similar for adults and children.
For calcium, the only application of an extrapolation model was for adults aged
>70 years, as this was derived by extrapolating up from the values for desirable
retention of 51- to 70-year-olds.

2.5.1.5 Epidemiological or intervention studies
Nutrient–disease relationships, such as with osteoporosis, hypertension, cardio-
vascular disease and diabetes, were considered by several agencies for one or
both of calcium and magnesium, but the evidence was not sufficiently com-
pelling to be applied in the derivation of the recommended intakes for calcium
in any reports of which we are aware. Nutrient–disease relationships are dis-
cussed in detail in other chapters (see chapters 5, 6 and 9). While the primary
indicator used in the DRI report (IOM 1997) was desirable calcium retention for
specific age groups, data from controlled clinical trials that studied the effect of
calcium intake on bone mass were reviewed where data were available for chil-
dren and older adults.
    In dietary standards such as the DRI report (IOM 1997), an association
between lifelong calcium intake and risk of osteoporosis or fracture in later life
could not be established as a criterion to set recommended intakes. The presence
of a myriad of confounding variables that impact on bone accrual during
growth, maintenance during adulthood and rate of loss in later life makes it
impossible to draw a direct relationship between dietary calcium and bone
status. Such variables include weight-bearing physical activity, vitamin D status
(which is dependent on sun exposure and dietary intake of fortified foods) and
genetics, such as the vitamin D receptor polymorphisms. To our knowledge, all
current dietary standards base their recommendations for calcium intake on
metabolic data.
                                                  Dietary intakes and allowances 27




2.5.2 Magnesium
2.5.2.1 Magnesium intake data
As with calcium for infants in the first half year of life, intake of magnesium
from a predicted average volume of human milk is the basis for recommended
intakes used in most dietary standard reports. From 6 to 12 months, the
recommended intakes are usually based on the amount consumed from a
standard volume of human milk plus reported intakes from solid foods.

2.5.2.2 Magnesium balance
For adults, the amount of magnesium intake needed to maintain “zero balance”
is a key criterion for setting recommended intakes. Similar to the issues raised
for calcium, consideration must be made for duration of time to adapt to varying
intakes of minerals, for dietary components that might reduce absorption of
magnesium, such as phytates, and for loss of magnesium through sweat, skin or
menses. In the DRI report (IOM 1997), intakes of magnesium that provided for
zero or slightly positive magnesium balance were used to derive the EARs.
When an EAR value was expressed on a body weight basis, mean reference
weights were then applied to give a value in milligrams per day. A similar
approach was used by the Scientific Committee on Food of the European
Commission (SCF 1993). For some reports (Committee of the Expert Group on
Caribbean Food and Nutrition Surveillance System 1994; IOM 1997; National
Nutrition Council 1999), the recommended intake for males is greater than that
for females, whereas other reports (SCF 1993) provide only one value or a range
of recommended intakes for both sexes. The recommendations for magnesium
in the recent Mexican report (Bourges et al. 2005) parallel those of the DRI
report (IOM 1997). Magnesium was not one of the “core nutrients” included in
the South-east Asia RDAs; hence, RDAs have yet to be set for this nutrient in
South-east Asia (Tee and Florentino 2005).

2.5.2.3 Factorial method
Accretion of magnesium during growth can be derived using body composition
values obtained from cadavers. To our knowledge, such data have not been
applied in current reports. For pregnancy, a factorial method was used for the
DRIs in the joint United States/Canadian report (IOM 1997), by assuming a
magnesium content of 470 mg/kg lean body mass, a gain of 7.5 kg lean mass
during pregnancy and an absorption efficiency of 40%. This summed and
rounded to 35 mg/day of additional magnesium required during pregnancy. This
value is then added to the EAR for age so that for pregnant women aged 19–30
28 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




years, the EAR is 290 mg/day. Because variance in requirements cannot be
determined from the available data for pregnant women, a coefficient of
variation of 10% was assumed to account for individual variability in
requirements. The RDA for magnesium of 350 mg/day was thus established for
pregnant women 19–30 years of age. For lactation, enhanced bone resorption
and reduced urinary magnesium loss cover the extra needs for magnesium
excreted in milk; thus, no additional intake was recommended (SCF 1993; IOM
1997).

2.5.2.4 Extrapolation models
When balance data are not available for specific age groups, estimates of
magnesium needs are extrapolated from those for other age groups. For
example, in the DRI report (IOM 1997), recommendations for the 1- to 3-year
and 4- to 8-year age groups were extrapolated from balance data in older
children, adjusting for reference body weight.

2.5.2.5 Epidemiological or intervention studies
Low magnesium status has been implicated in hypertension, coronary artery
disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, pre-eclampsia and metabolic syndrome.
Nutrient–disease relationships are discussed in detail in other chapters (see
chapters 5, 6 and 9). The primary indicator used in the DRI report (IOM 1997)
for magnesium for older children and adults was metabolic balance studies.


2.6 OVERVIEW OF UPPER LEVELS OF INTAKE FOR
    CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
2.6.1 Defining upper levels of intake
The DRI report defines the upper level (UL) as “the highest level of daily
nutrient intake that is likely to pose no risk of adverse health effects for almost
all apparently healthy individuals in the specified life stage group. As intake
increases above the UL, the potential risk of adverse effects may increase”
(IOM 1998a). The Food and Nutrition Board of the United States Institute of
Medicine’s Subcommittee on Upper Reference Levels of Nutrients, after much
deliberation, selected a risk assessment methodology on which to base its
assessment of the ULs (NRC 1983). To use a UL to characterize population
nutrient intakes, one needs to know the actual usual intake of the nutrient, which
is often difficult, as accurate assessment of nutrient intake is limited to the
number of available data on supplement use, and because food composition data
are quickly outdated as new products appear on the market. Additionally,
                                                  Dietary intakes and allowances 29




deriving the ULs for various populations is challenging because of genetic
diversity among individuals in populations and individuals’ different stages of
life. The UL was further defined by the DRI committee as the “tolerable upper
intake level” in order to convey the concept that upper intake levels derived by
risk assessment methodology were tolerable but were not to be portrayed as the
desirable intakes to be achieved. This decision is consistent with principles
elaborated by WHO for the establishment of ULs for xenobiotic substances
found in foods and at present represents a global consensus approach (Ministère
de l’Economie et des Finances et al. 1995; Nordic Council of Ministers 1995;
IOM 1997, 1998b, 2000a,b, 2004; Expert Group on Vitamins and Minerals
2003; SCF 2003; FAO/WHO Technical Workshop on Nutrient Risk Assessment
2006). Table 2.4 provides the ULs for calcium and magnesium as set by national
and regional authorities.

2.6.2 Upper level of intake for calcium
Values for the ULs in the DRI reports from the United States and Canada have
been set for 14 elements and 8 vitamins and are provided for at least some
population subgroups. The safe or tolerable upper level of intake above which
habitual intake may produce an adverse health effect was set at 2500 mg/day for
calcium in some reports (IOM 1997; SCF 2003; Bourges et al. 2005; National
Health and Medical Research Council 2006), but the critical adverse effect
chosen as the basis for the UL (e.g. milk alkali syndrome) is not consistent
among agencies. Also considered as limiting adverse effects of excessive
calcium intakes were kidney stone formation and the interaction of calcium with
the absorption of other essential minerals. Risk of excessive calcium intake from
food and supplements is not highly likely based on previous population-based
dietary survey data; however, with the increase in calcium-fortified foods and
diversity of supplements, ongoing surveillance of population intakes is vital.
The estimated UL of 2500 mg for adults (from diet and supplementary sources)
is considered to be a conservative estimate. The available data were judged to be
inadequate for deriving a UL for pregnant and lactating women.

2.6.3 Upper level of intake for magnesium
The UL for magnesium was established based solely on dietary supplement
intake levels as opposed to intakes from food. No adverse effect could be estab-
lished for food-based mineral. Osmotic diarrhoea was chosen as the most sensi-
tive toxic manifestation of excess magnesium intake as a result of excessive
30 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




intake from supplements in a sugar base. This indicator was consistently used
across reports (IOM 1997; Expert Group on Vitamins and Minerals 2003; SCF
Table 2.4. Upper levels for calcium and magnesium intake, by national/regional authority
(adapted from FAO/WHO Technical Workshop on Nutrient Risk Assessment 2006)
                                              United Kingdom: Expert      European
                   United States/Canada:      Group on Vitamins and       Union:
    Nutrient       IOM (1997)                 Minerals (2003)             SCF (2003)
    Calcium        Adults >19 years: 2500     Insufficient data to        Adults:
    from diet      mg/day (62.5 mmol/day)     establish ULs               2500
    and supple-    Children 1–18 years:       Guidance level:             mg/day
    mentary        2500 mg/day (62.5          • Supplemental calcium      (62.5
    sources        mmol/day)                    doses up to 1500          mmol/day)
                   Infants 0–12 months: It      mg/day would not be
                   was not possible to          expected to result in
                   establish a UL for           any adverse effect, but
                   supplementary calcium        higher doses could
                   or for calcium from diet     result in adverse
                                                gastrointestinal
                                                symptoms in a few
                                                people
                                              • An estimate for total
                                                calcium intake has not
                                                been made, as the
                                                effect is related to
                                                calcium in supplemen-
                                                tal doses
    Magnesium      Adults: 350 mg/day (14.6   Insufficient data to        All age
    from supple-   mmol/day)                  establish ULs               groups: 250
    mentary        Children >8 years: 350                                 mg/day
    sourcesa       mg/day (14.6 mmol/day)                                 (10.4
                   Children 4–8 years: 110                                mmol/day)
                   mg/day (4.6 mmol/day)
                   Children 1–3 years: 65
                   mg/day (2.7 mmol/day)
                   Infants: It was not
                   possible to establish a
                   UL for supplementary
                   magnesium
a
     No adverse effects have been associated with the ingestion of magnesium from food
     sources. Osmotic diarrhoea results from excess consumption of magnesium-containing
     products.

2003) to establish a UL of 250–350 mg/day for magnesium. For children, there
is a paucity of research-based data, so UL values are most often extrapolated
                                                     Dietary intakes and allowances 31




down from UL values set for adults or no UL is set, as in infants (see Table 2.5).
The UL for pregnant and lactating women is set at 350 mg/day, as no increased
susceptibility to adverse effects was noted in this population. In patients with
certain clinical conditions, intake levels above 350 mg/day may be beneficial in
the clinical setting (IOM 1997). The prevalence of excessive intakes, above the
UL, for both calcium and magnesium is extremely low in the United States, at
less than 5% of the population. However, it is important to maintain surveillance
of the use of supplemental forms of these nutrients as well as calcium-fortified
products in the marketplace. For both magnesium and calcium, sensitive
subpopulations exist that may be particularly susceptible to high intakes.
Table 2.5. Adverse health effects considered and used in setting ULs for calcium and
magnesium, by report (adapted from FAO/WHO Technical Workshop on Nutrient Risk
Assessment 2006)
                          Information provided relative to the adverse effect
                                        United Kingdom:
                  United States/        Expert Group on
                  Canada: IOM           Vitamins and             European Union:
 Adverse effect   (1997)                Minerals (2003)          SCF (2003)
 Calcium
 Adults
 Milk alkali      Summary of case        Not available / no     Intervention trials
 syndrome         reports                UL set                 without adverse
                                                                effects
 Infants and
 children
 Applicability    Also applicable to     Guidance value for     Not applicable to
 of extrapola-    1–18 years, preg-      supplemental intake    children and
 tion to other    nancy, lactation       1500 mg/day (37.5      adolescents
 groups                                  mmol/day)
 Magnesium
 Adults
 Osmotic          Summary of             Summary of             Summary of
 diarrhoea        intervention studies   intervention studies   intervention studies
 Infants and
 children
 Applicability    Extrapolation for      Guidance level for     Applicable to
 of extrapola-    body weight 1–8        supplemental intake    supplemental intake,
 tion to other    years, also            400 mg/day (16.7       applicable to
 groups           applicable in          mmol/day)              children >4 years
                  pregnancy and
                  lactation
32 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




2.7 SUMMARY
Great heterogeneity exists in the formulation of dietary recommended intakes
for calcium and magnesium, and future recommendations should ideally be
based on established and common methodologies for respective age groups.
Based on the survey data available, it is clear that very large numbers of people
consume levels of these minerals that are insufficient to support even the most
conservative estimates of their physiological needs. Additionally, very few
studies have considered drinking and cooking waters in terms of their potential
contributions to total calcium/magnesium intakes, and it is critical that this
information be gathered to provide more accurate assessments of population
intakes.


2.8 REFERENCES
Abbott, R.D., Ando, F., Masaki, K.H., Tung, K.H., Rodriguez, B.L., Petrovitch, H.,
     Yano, K. and Kurb, J.D. (2003) Dietary magnesium intake and the future risk of
     coronary heart disease (the Honolulu Heart Program). Am. J. Cardiol. 92, 665–669.
Akhter, P., Baloch, N.Z., Mohammad, D., Orfi, S.D. and Ahman, N. (2004) Assessment
     of strontium and calcium levels in Pakistani diet. J. Environ. Radioact. 73, 247–256.
Archer, S.L., Stamler, J., Moag-Stahlberg, A.L., Van Horn, L., Garside, D., Chan, Q.,
     Buffington, J. and Dyer, A.R. (2005) Association of dietary supplement use with
     specific micronutrient intakes among middle-aged American men and women: The
     INTERMAP study. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 105, 1106–1114.
Bell, R.A., Quandt, S.A., Spangler, J.G. and Case, D. (2002) Dietary calcium intake and
     supplement use among older African American, white and Native American women
     in a rural southeastern community. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 844–847.
Bounds, W., Skinner, J., Carruth, B.R. and Ziegler, P. (2005) The relationship of dietary
     and lifestyle factors to bone mineral indexes in children. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 105,
     735–741.
Bourges, H., Casanueva, E. and Rosado, J.L. (eds) (2005) Recomendaciones de ingestion
     de nutrimentos para la poblacion mexicana. Bases fisiological. 1. Vitaminas y
     nutritmentos inorganico. Editorial Medial Panamericana, Mexico.
Briefel, R., Ziegler, P., Novak, T. and Ponza, M. (2006) Feeding infants and toddlers
     study: Characteristics and usual nutrient intake of Hispanic and non-Hispanic
     infants and toddlers. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 106, S84–S95.
Charlton, K.E., Steyn, K., Levitt, N.S., Zulu, J.V., Jonathan, D., Veldman, F.J. and Nel,
     J.H. (2005) Diet and blood pressure in South Africa: Intake of foods containing
     sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium in three ethnic groups. Nutrition 21(1),
     39–50.
Committee of the Expert Group on Caribbean Food and Nutrition Surveillance System
     (1994) Recommended Dietary Allowances for the Caribbean. Caribbean Food and
     Nutrition Institute, Kingston, Jamaica.
Daida, Y., Novotny, R., Grove, J.S., Acharya, S. and Vogt, T.M. (2006) Ethnicity and
     nutrition of adolescent girls in Hawaii. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 106, 221–226.
                                                       Dietary intakes and allowances 33




De Backer, G. (ed.) (2003) Recommandations nutritionnelles pour la Belgique. Federal
     Public Service Document SHC 7145-1, Conseil National de la Nutrition, Brussels.
Expert Group on Vitamins and Minerals (2003) Safe Upper Levels for Vitamins and
     Minerals. Food Standards Agency of the United Kingdom, London (http://
     www.food.gov.uk/multimedia/pdfs/ vitmin2003.pdf).
FAO/WHO (2002) Human Vitamin and Mineral Requirements. Report of a Joint
     FAO/WHO Expert Consultation. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
     Nations, Rome, and World Health Organization, Geneva (http://www.fao.org/
     DOCREP/004/Y2809E/y2809e00.htm).
FAO/WHO Technical Workshop on Nutrient Risk Assessment (2006) A Model for
     Establishing Upper Levels of Intake for Nutrients and Related Substances. World
     Health Organization, Geneva.
Frary, C.D., Johnson, R.K. and Wang, M.Q. (2004) Children and adolescents’ choices of
     foods and beverages high in added sugar are associated with intakes of key nutrients
     and food groups. J. Adolesc. Health 34, 56–63.
Galan, P., Arnaud, M.J., Czernichow, S., Delabroise, A.M., Prezioso, P., Bertrais, S.,
     Franchisseur, C., Maurel, M., Favier, A. and Hercberg, S. (2002) Contribution of
     mineral waters to dietary calcium and magnesium in a French adult population. J.
     Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 1658–1662.
Gilmore, J.M.E., Hong, L., Broffitt, B. and Levy, S.M. (2005) Longitudinal patterns of
     vitamin and mineral supplement use in young white children. J. Am. Diet. Assoc.
     105, 763–772.
Heaney, R.P., Rafferty, K. and Dowell, S. (2002) Effect of yogurt on a urinary marker of
     bone resorption in postmenopausal women. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 1672–1674.
Humphries, S., Kushner, H. and Falkner, B. (1999) Low dietary magnesium is associated
     with insulin resistance in a sample of young, nondiabetic black Americans. Am. J.
     Hypertens. 12, 747–756.
IOM (1997) Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin
     D, and Fluoride. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation
     of Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309063507/
     html).
IOM (1998a) Dietary Reference Intakes: A Risk Assessment Model for Establishing
     Upper Intake Levels for Nutrients. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309063507/
     html).
IOM (1998b) Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamine, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B6,
     Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline. Prepared by the
     Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of Dietary Reference Intakes,
     Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine. National Academy Press,
     Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/openbook/0309065542/html).
IOM (2000a) Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and
     Carotenoids. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of
     Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309069351/
     html/index.html).
IOM (2000b) Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron,
     Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon,
34 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




     Vanadium, and Zinc. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific
     Evaluation of Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of
     Medicine. National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/
     0309072794/html/).
IOM (2003) Dietary Reference Intakes: Applications in Dietary Planning. Prepared by
     the Institute of Medicine. National Academies Press, Washington, DC.
IOM (2004) Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and
     Sulfate. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of Dietary
     Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine. National
     Academies Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309091691/html/).
Jodral-Segado, A.M., Navarro-Alarcon, M., Lopez-G de la Serrana, H. and Lopez-
     Martinez, M.C. (2003) Magnesium and calcium contents in foods from SE Spain:
     Influencing factors and estimation of daily dietary intakes. Sci. Total Environ. 312,
     47–58.
Johnson, R.K., Frary, C. and Wang, M.Q. (2002) The nutritional consequences of
     flavored-milk consumption by school-aged children and adolescents in the United
     States. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 853–856.
Kleiber, M. (1947) Body size and metabolic rate. Physiol. Rev. 27, 511–541.
Koletzko, B., Aggett, P.J., Bindels, J.G., Bung, P., Ferre, P., Gil, A., Lentze, M.J.,
     Roberfroid, M. and Strobel, S. (1998) Growth, development and differentiation: A
     functional food science approach. Br. J. Nutr. 80(Suppl. 1), S5–S45.
Lancaster, K.J., Smiciklas-Wright, H., Weitzel, L.B., Mitchell, D.C., Friedmann, J.M.
     and Jensen, G.L. (2004) Hypertension-related dietary patterns of rural older adults.
     Prev. Med. 38, 812–818.
Lappe, J.M., Rafferty, K.A., Davies, K.M. and Lypaczewski, G. (2004) Girls on a high-
     calcium diet gain weight at the same rate as girls on a normal diet: A pilot study. J.
     Am. Diet. Assoc. 104, 1361–1367.
Mertz, W. (2000) Three decades of dietary recommendations. Nutr. Rev. 58(10), 324–
     331.
Millen, B.E., Quatromoni, P.A., Franz, M.M., Epstein, B.E., Cupples, L.A. and
     Copenhafer, D.L. (1997) Population nutrient intake approaches dietary recommen-
     dations: 1991 to 1995 Framingham Nutrition Studies. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 97, 742–
     749.
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, Ministère du Travail et des Affaires Sociale
     and Ministère de l’Agriculture, de la Peche et de l’Alimentation (1995) Rapport sur
     les limites de sécurité dans les consummations alimentaires des vitamins et
     minéraux. Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, Ministère du Travail et des
     Affaires Sociale and Ministère de l’Agriculture, de la Peche et de l’Alimentation,
     Paris.
Monge-Rojas, R. (2001) Marginal vitamin and mineral intake of Costa Rican
     adolescents. Arch. Med. Res. 32, 70–78.
Mrdjenovic, G. and Levitsky, D.A. (2003) Nutritional and energetic consequences of
     sweetened drink consumption in 6- to 13-year-old children. J. Pediatr. 142, 604–
     610.
Nakamura, K., Hori, Y., Nashimoto, M., Okuda, Y., Miyazaki, H., Kasai, Y. and
     Yamamoto, M. (2004) Dietary calcium, sodium, phosphorus, and protein and bone
     metabolism in elderly Japanese women: A pilot study using the duplicate portion
     sampling method. Nutrition 20, 340–345.
                                                         Dietary intakes and allowances 35




National Health and Medical Research Council (2006) Nutrient Reference Values for
     Australia and New Zealand Including Recommended Dietary Intakes.
     Commonwealth of Australia, Department of Health and Ageing and Ministry of
     Health                                    (http://www.moh.govt.nz/moh.nsf/by+unid/
     5AF03958B565AD47CC25716200794B48?Open).
National Nutrition Council (1999) Finnish Nutrition Recommendations. Committee
     Report 1998: 7, Nutrition Recommendation Section, National Nutrition Council,
     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Helsinki (http://www.ktl.fi/nutrition/
     finnutrec98.pdf).
Nordic Council of Ministers (1995) Risk Evaluation of Essential Trace Elements —
     Essential Versus Toxic Levels of Intake. Nordic Council of Ministers, Copenhagen.
NRC (1983) Risk Assessment in the Federal Government: Managing the Process.
     Prepared by the National Research Council. National Academy Press, Washington,
     DC.
Pobocik, R.S., Benavente, J.C., Boudreau, N.S. and Spore, C.L. (2003) Pregnant
     adolescents in Guam consume diets low in calcium and other micronutrients. J. Am.
     Diet. Assoc. 103, 611–614.
Radimer, K., Bindewald, B., Hughes, J., Ervin, B., Swanson, C. and Picciano, M.F.
     (2004) Dietary supplement use by US adults: Data from the National Health and
     Nutrition Examination Survey, 1999–2000. Am. J. Epidemiol. 160, 339–349.
Reimer, R.A., Debert, C.T., House, J.L. and Poulin, M.J. (2005) Dietary and metabolic
     differences in pre- versus postmenopausal women taking or not taking hormone
     replacement therapy. Physiol. Behav. 84, 303–312.
SCF (1993) Nutrient and Energy Intakes for the European Community (Opinion
     Expressed on 11 December 1992). Reports of the Scientific Committee for Food
     (Thirty-first series), pp. 1–248, Office for Official Publications of the European
     Communities, Luxembourg (http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/scf/out89.pdf).
SCF (2003) Annex XIV, Minutes’ Statement of the Scientific Committee on Food
     Addressing the Limitations of Extrapolating Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of
     Nutrients for Children (Expressed on 4 April 2003). SCF/CS/NUT/UPPL/68 Final.
     In Minutes of the 137th Plenary Meeting of the Scientific Committee on Food held
     on 2–4 April 2003 in Brussels, SCF/CS/PLEN/MINS 137, 14 May 2003. Health &
     Consumer Protection Directorate-General, European Commission (http://
     www.europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/scf/out198_en.pdf).
Shahar, D., Shai, I., Vardi, H., Shahar, A. and Fraser, D. (2005) Diet and eating habits in
     high and low socioeconomic groups. Nutrition 21, 559–566.
Song, Y., Manson, J.E., Cook, N.R., Albert, C.M., Buring, J.E. and Liu, S. (2005)
     Dietary magnesium intake and the risk of cardiovascular disease. Am. J. Cardiol. 96,
     1135–1141.
Suitor, C.W. and Gleason, P.M. (2002) Using dietary reference intake–based methods to
     estimate the prevalence of inadequate nutrient intake among school-aged children. J.
     Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 530–536.
Tee, E.-S. and Florentino, R.F. (eds) (2005) Recommended Dietary Allowances:
     Harmonization in Southeast Asia. International Life Sciences Institute, Southeast
     Asia Region, Singapore.
Townsend, M.S., Fulgoni, V.L., Stern, J.S., Adu-Afarwuah, S. and McCarron, D. (2005)
     Low mineral intake is associated with high systolic blood pressure in the Third and
36 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




     Fourth National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys: Could we all be right?
     Am. J. Hypertens. 18, 261–269.
Troppmann, L., Gray-Donald, K. and Johns, T. (2002) Supplement use: Is there any
     nutritional benefit? J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 102, 818–825.
United States Department of Agriculture and United States Department of Health and
     Human Services (2005) Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 6th edn. United States
     Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC (http://www.healthierus.gov/
     dietaryguidelines/).
West, G.B., Woodruff, W.H. and Brown, J.H. (2002) Allometric scaling of metabolic
     rate from molecules and mitochondria to cells and mammals. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
     U. S. A. 99, 2473–2478.
WHO (1996) Breast-feeding: The Best Start in Life. WHO/NUT/96.1, Global Data Bank
     on Breast-feeding, World Health Organization, Geneva.
3


The mineral composition
of water and its contribution
to calcium and magnesium
intake
Choon Nam Ong, A.C. Grandjean and R.P. Heaney




3.1 INTRODUCTION
Traditionally, drinking-water has been drawn from streams, lakes and rivers,
collected directly from rainwater or extracted from groundwater sources such as
wells. Advances in technology have offered other approaches, such as
desalination of ocean water, melting of ice and reclamation of used water by
membranes and other advanced techniques. Different water quality issues have
to be faced when utilizing these different water resources. Some of these are at
present largely neglected in water quality regulations. One important issue that
deserves attention is the low mineral intakes from foods and water that are
38 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




common in many parts of the world. Today, subclinical deficiencies of iron,
magnesium, zinc and calcium prevail in both the developed and developing
worlds. Although dozens of geographical studies have been conducted on
minerals in drinking-water and their relationships to various diseases, their daily
intakes and status of deficiencies as well as their health consequences are still
inadequately understood.
   This chapter attempts to provide some background information on drinking-
water composition in different parts of the world. Studies from world regions
are also briefly reviewed with regard to minerals in drinking-water and their
known and potential health effects.


3.2 DRINKING-WATER IN DIFFERENT REGIONS
3.2.1 WHO Western Pacific and South-East Asia Regions
Historically, “drinking-water” was often regarded as water without pathogenic
microbial or obvious anthropogenic or chemical contamination. Many people
assumed that such “clean” water was harmless. Thus, typically, only a few
chemical elements that were assumed to define water quality were routinely
analysed in most Asian nations. Minerals such as calcium, magnesium and zinc
still are not normally on the regulatory monitoring list.
    The drinking-water resources in Asia are diverse and include piped and non-
piped supplies. Most drinking-water is piped, but ditches, ponds, springs and
rivers are important in some regions, accompanied by rainwater collection and
wells. The mineral contents of water from most Asian drinking-water supplies
are generally in the range of 2–80 mg/l for calcium (Ca2+) and below 20 mg/l for
magnesium (Mg2+). Several epidemiological investigations on the possible
associations between the risk of gastrointestinal tract cancers and minerals in
drinking-water, in particular hardness, have been well reported. Studies by Yang
and his colleagues showed that there was an inverse relationship between water
hardness and various diseases, including coronary mortality, cerebrovascular
disease and gastrointestinal tract cancers in Taiwan, China; however, the
specific concentrations of calcium, magnesium and other minerals that made up
the total water hardness were not given in these reports (Yang et al. 1996, 1997,
1999; Yang 1998; Yang and Hung 1998).
    A few previous studies have looked at the relationship between pregnancy
outcome and magnesium nutritional intake and found that magnesium supple-
mentation could have beneficial effects on prenatal outcome. A study was
carried out by Yang et al. (2002a) to examine the relationship between the levels
of magnesium in drinking-water and the risk of delivering a child of very low
birth weight (birth weight less than 1500 g). There was a significant trend
                                                     Mineral composition of water 39




towards a decreased risk of having a child of very low birth weight with increas-
ing magnesium levels in drinking-water (Yang et al. 2002a). It was hypothe-
sized that magnesium supplementation can reduce smooth muscle contractibility
and tone and that this effect can be clinically manifested by a reduction in blood
pressure and a reduction in the incidence of premature delivery. A similar study
was conducted on the relationship between the levels of calcium in drinking-
water and the risk of delivering a child of very low birth weight by the same
group in Taiwan, China. The results suggest that there is significant protective
effect of calcium intake from drinking-water on the risk of delivering a very low
birth weight baby (Yang et al. 2002b).
   Punjab is a typical large state in north-eastern India, neighbouring Pakistan.
People in this region relied on groundwater as a drinking-water source. Kumar
et al. (2006) studied the water from 24 different locations and noted that there
was a large variation in mineral contents in the well water, with a range of 8–
343 mg/l for calcium and 5–235.6 mg/l for magnesium. This study suggests that
even for groundwater from similar geographical locations, the mineral contents
can vary markedly.
   Magnesium is required in higher quantities during the rapid growth phase in
children. Its level in the groundwater in Kerala, India, is low and is believed to
cause magnesium deficiency, especially in children from the lower socio-
economic groups who also suffer from nutritional insufficiency. Nair and
colleagues (1995) compared the serum and erythrocyte magnesium levels of
schoolchildren from high and low socioeconomic classes. The results showed
that serum and erythrocyte magnesium levels were significantly lower in both
boys and girls from low socioeconomic groups who consumed groundwater and
who had lower body mass indices.
   An attempt was made to determine whether an association existed between
hardness of water and certain cardiovascular diseases in indigenous populations
who drink untreated water collected directly from rivers. Blood pressure was
measured in persons living in villages along the banks of the Wogupmeri River
in Papua New Guinea. The calcium content of the river water was found to
decrease as the river flows downstream, whereas the blood pressure of the vil-
lagers living along this river increased as the river flows downstream (Masironi
et al. 1976). The results of this investigation tend to be in line with more recent
findings of a beneficial effect of hard water on cardiovascular parameters (Yang
1998).
   Analysis of water hardness in major Australian cities by the Australian Water
Association (http://www.awa.asn.au) shows a range from very soft (Melbourne)
to very hard (Adelaide). Total hardness as calcium carbonate (in mg/l) is as
40 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




follows: Melbourne, 11.3–14.0; Sydney, 39.4–60.1; Perth, 30–198; Brisbane,
100; Adelaide, 101–216; Hobart, 6–50; Darwin, 22–38.

3.2.2 WHO Eastern Mediterranean and African regions
Very few studies have been conducted in African and eastern Mediterranean
countries on minerals and water supplies and consumption. Historically, these
regions have relied on springs, rivers and wells as water sources. Based on
limited data from these regions, mineral contents of well waters are generally
higher than those of surface waters. Today, many of these countries rely on
desalinated seawater as a source of drinking-water. This water is frequently
obtained by mixing distilled water with low-salinity groundwater to obtain
water suitable for drinking.
   A survey of trace elements, including magnesium, but not calcium, was
conducted by al-Saleh and al-Doush (1998) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. This city is
supplied mainly with desalinated seawater and water from deep wells. The study
found that the household drinking-water contained magnesium at concentrations
ranging from 0.78 to 0.88 mg/l, suggesting that the concentration of this trace
element in drinking-water is minimal. Olajire and Imeokparia (2001) investi-
gated several ions in water samples from the Osun River, a main water source
for a large population of eastern Nigeria, in addition to several groundwater
sources in this region. The calcium concentration in the Osun River ranged from
2 to 60.8 mg/l, whereas the concentration in groundwater sources ranged from 3
to 52 mg/l.

3.2.3 WHO Region of the Americas
Significant variations exist in the mineral content of tap water sources among
North American cities. In general, the levels of Ca2+ and Mg2+ were higher
among those cities supplied by groundwater sources than among those using
surface water sources. Tap water sources that contained higher levels of Ca2+
generally also contained high levels of Mg2+. Azoulay et al. (2001) found that,
of the 12 states of the United States and three provinces of Canada in their
study, the mineral levels were highest in Arizona, California, Indiana and Texas.
In addition, variations were also found in mineral content of different water
sources within the same city. Calcium levels, for example, varied from 9 to 60
mg/l among the three water sources in San Jose, California. In Los Angeles,
California, magnesium levels varied from 5 to 29 mg/l.
   In Canada, the Canadian Shield does not leach many minerals into the water,
resulting in very soft groundwater and surface water. However, the moraine
material on which the Prairie provinces are located (mainly Saskatchewan and
                                                   Mineral composition of water 41




Manitoba) contains high quantities of calcium and magnesium, often as
dolomite; these minerals are readily soluble in the groundwater, which contains
high concentrations of trapped carbon dioxide from the last glaciation. In these
parts of Canada, the total hardness (in calcium carbonate equivalent) frequently
exceeds 200 mg/l if groundwater is the only source of potable water. Some
typical values are as follows: Calgary, Alberta, 165 mg/l; Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan, <140 mg/l; Toronto, Ontario, 121 mg/l; Vancouver, British
Columbia, <5 mg/l.

3.2.4 WHO European Region
In northern Europe, groundwater exploitation has expanded considerably over
the last two centuries. A significant proportion of western and central Europe
now receives drinking-water from groundwater sources in addition to surface
water. Residents in Italy, Iceland, Austria, Denmark and Lithuania consume
close to 90% of their water from groundwater sources, whereas people in
France, Sweden and Finland consume up to 50%, close to that of people from
the Netherlands and Germany, at 50–70%. The contribution of groundwater to
drinking-water supply in the United Kingdom ranges from 30% to 35%; in
Norway, it is about 15% (Reimann and Banks 2004).
   According to Sjors and Gunnarsson (2002), the range of calcium in natural
groundwater is normally from 1 to 100 mg/l. This variation of calcium
concentration obviously depends on the original well water and the composition
of the bedrock.
   Information from the United Kingdom’s Drinking Water Inspectorate (2004)
shows that drinking-water in England is generally considered to be “very hard”,
with most areas of England, particularly the east, exhibiting hardness (as
calcium carbonate equivalent) above 200 mg/l. Wales, Cornwall and parts of
north-west England are softer-water areas, with hardness ranging from 0 to 200
mg/l.


3.3 COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE BOTTLED WATERS
From being a generic natural resource, water has been processed, packed,
labelled and branded. The sophistication of the water purification process as
well as packaging, branding and marketing costs make bottled drinking-water
expensive on a unit basis, while its consumption is increasing in most regions.
   Bottled water consumption has been steadily growing in all parts of the world
for the past 30 years, and it is now the most dynamic sector of the entire food
and beverage industry. Globally, consumption has increased by an average of
42 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




12% per year, in spite of its high unit price compared with tap water. The con-
sumption of bottled water in Sweden, for example, increased from 92 million
litres to 161 million litres from 1992 to 2001 (Rosborg et al. 2005). The annual
per capita consumption of bottled water in the United States increased from less
than 30 litres in 1991 to almost 42 litres in 1996 (Ferrier 2001). However, the
fastest growing markets are in Asia and the Pacific, with an annual increase of
15% for the period 1999–2001 (Ferrier 2001). In newer markets such as India,
bottled water consumption is increasing by as much as 50% annually (Ferrier
2001).
    Currently, an average of 15 litres of bottled water is consumed per year per
person. Among populations in different regions, western Europeans are the
world’s major bottled water consumers (85 litres per person per year),
consuming nearly half of the world’s bottled water. Within Europe, Italians
drink more bottled water than other Europeans, at 107 litres per year per
inhabitant on average (Ferrier 2001).
    In North America, partly because of concern that certain contaminants of tap
water may have adverse health effects, consumption of tap water has decreased
and intake of bottled water has increased. One in five households, or 54% of
Americans, regularly drink bottled water in the United States. Asian consumers
bought an average 11.0 litres per person in 2004, while those in the GCC
countries purchased more than triple this figure, at 36.5 litres (Ferrier 2001).

3.3.1 Quality of bottled water
Internationally recognized standards for food (which includes bottled/packaged
water) are produced by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, which is jointly
sponsored by WHO and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO). Separate standards are provided for natural mineral waters
(CAC 1997) and for bottled/packaged drinking-waters other than natural
mineral waters (CAC 2001). The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality
are the basis for derivation of the standards for all bottled/packaged waters. The
Codex standards describe the product and its labelling, composition and quality
factors, including limits for certain chemicals, hygiene and packaging. The
Codex Codes of Practice for Collecting, Processing and Marketing of Natural
Mineral Waters and for Bottled/Packaged Drinking Waters (Other than Natural
Mineral Waters) provide guidance to the industry on a range of matters
concerning good manufacturing practices. Although Codex Alimentarius
Commission standards and recommendations are not strictly mandatory, Codex
health and safety requirements are recognized as representing the international
consensus for consumer protection. It should be noted that neither Codex
standard refers specifically to calcium or magnesium.
                                                      Mineral composition of water 43




    Natural mineral water is defined by Codex as water characterized by its
content of certain mineral salts and their relative proportions and the presence of
trace elements or other constituents that is obtained directly from natural or
drilled sources from underground water-bearing strata with a constant compo-
sition and collected under conditions that guarantee the original microbiological
purity and chemical composition of essential components. Natural mineral water
may be naturally carbonated, non-carbonated, decarbonated, fortified by carbon
dioxide or carbonated (CAC 1997). Bottled/packaged drinking-water other than
natural mineral water is water that may contain minerals, naturally occurring or
intentionally added; may contain carbon dioxide, naturally occurring or inten-
tionally added; but shall not contain sugars, sweeteners, flavourings or other
foodstuffs. Bottled/packaged drinking-waters may be either water defined by
origin or prepared water (CAC 2001).
    There are differences between the United States and Europe on some
labelling criteria that apply to packaged water. In the United States, the terms
used on the labels of packaged waters to describe their characteristics, origin
and treatment methods include (natural) mineral water, spring water, purified
water, artesian water and sparkling water (Table 3.1). In the United States, the
Food and Drug Administration defines natural mineral water as having a
minimum total dissolved solids concentration of 250 mg/l and deriving from a
protected underground water source. Spring water, in comparison, need not have
a constant mineral composition and is usually cheaper. Purified water is taken
from lakes, rivers, underground springs or municipal tap water supplies and has
been treated, often by reverse osmosis and ozonation, prior to bottling.
    More than half (59%) of the commercial bottled water drunk in the world is
purified water, the remaining 41% being primarily spring water or natural min-
eral water. Bottled water’s popularity has a number of causes. In Asia and Latin
America, population growth and problems with local water quality and supply
are the biggest factors. Currently, 1.1 billion people worldwide lack access to
improved water sources, and about 1.6 million children under the age of five die
each year from diseases brought on by lack of safe drinking-water and adequate
sanitation. Thus, bulk packaging has made bottled water more attractive in some
parts of the world. Prompted by advertising, many consumers buy bottled water
as an alternative to soft drinks and alcohol, as it is perceived to be safer than tap
water or because it tastes better than tap water. Interestingly, even in countries
where there is access to safe public drinking-water, people spend up to 1000
times more on a unit cost basis for bottled water than for tap water. Changes in
lifestyle also explain this increase in bottled water sales. In the United States,
bottled water is considered a food product and must meet applicable food
packaging and quality regulations of the Food and Drug Administration. Tap
44 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




water, in contrast, is regarded as a utility and must meet Environmental
Protection Agency standards.


Table 3.1. Types of bottled water in the United States
 Type           Description
 Mineral water Water containing a minimum total dissolved solids level of 250 mg/l,
 (natural)      originating in an underground water table or deposit. Mineral water is
                distinguished from other types of water by its constant level and
                relative proportions of minerals and trace elements at the point of
                emergence from the source. No minerals may be added to this water.
 Spring water Bottled water derived from an underground formation from which
                water flows naturally to the surface of the earth. Spring water must be
                collected only at the spring or through a borehole tapping the under-
                ground formation feeding the spring. Spring water collected through a
                borehole must have all the physical properties, before treatment, and
                be of the same composition and quality as the water that flows
                naturally to the surface of the earth.
 Purified water Water produced by distillation, deionization, reverse osmosis or other
                suitable process that meets the definition of purified water in the 23rd
                revision of the United States Pharmacopoeia.
 Artesian       Water from a well that taps an aquifer in which the water level is
 water          higher than the top of the aquifer.
 Sparkling      Water that, after treatment and possible replacement of carbon dioxide,
 water          contains the same amount of carbon dioxide that it had at the source
                (not to be confused with soda water, seltzer water or tonic water).

Source: Based on the United States Food and Drug Administration (http://
www.cfsan.fda.gov/~lrd/FCF165.html), which has established specific regulations for
bottled water in Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR). These
regulations include the identity standard (21 CFR § 165.110[a]), which defines
different types of bottled water, such as spring water and mineral water, and the
quality standard (21 CFR §165.110[b]), which establishes allowable levels for
contaminants (chemical, physical, microbial and radiological) in bottled water.

   Although commercially bottled waters are generally of good microbiological
quality, they are not exempt from some contaminants. In a test conducted on
over 1000 bottles of 103 brands, the Natural Resources Defense Council of the
United States (NRDC 1999) found that most of the bottled waters were of good
quality, although levels of chemical or non-pathogenic bacterial contaminants
exceeded those in tap water in about one third of the bottled waters tested.
Indeed, for some countries, rules for bottled water are weaker than national
potable water regulations. Regulated and certified bottled water is required to be
tested for bacteria and chemical contaminants. In some countries, the regulations
                                                      Mineral composition of water 45




for bottled water do not require examination for thermotolerant (faecal)
coliforms, as do those for municipal tap water.
    The situation could be worse in developing countries. For example, in India,
there is a general lack of standards for bottled water, hygiene requirements for
the containers and a mandatory system for testing and monitoring bottled water
quality and safety (Radhakrishna et al. 2003), with 65% of bottlers simply
pumping water from a bore well or even municipal water supplies. A 2001
report from the Consumers’ Foundation in Taiwan, China, claimed that 80% of
bottled water and mineral water sold in Taiwan, China, is unfit for human
consumption (http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/). According to the
Consumers’ Foundation, the bottled water and mineral water industry is insuf-
ficiently regulated. Many local bottled water manufacturers failed to pass the
Foundation’s test, because bacteria levels in the water were high.

3.3.2 Minerals in bottled water
Because drinking-water may be an important source of mineral intake, the shift
in consumption from tap water to bottled water may have important implications
in health and disease. The contribution of water to calcium and magnesium
intake depends on the amount of the minerals in the water and the amount of
water consumed.
    The variation in the mineral content of bottled waters in different parts of the
world is tremendous, and few of them have an optimal mineral profile. Given
the extensive consumption of bottled water, the question naturally arises as to
the long-term impact of the varying chemical composition of these waters on
human health. Chemical analyses of bottled water are not usually provided at
all, or only for selected parameters. Consumers are faced with difficulty in
interpreting the information that does exist on the bottled water label. For
instance, none of the samples treated by reverse osmosis displayed information
on total dissolved solids levels (Pip 2000).
    Garzon and Eisenberg (1998) first showed that there is a large variation in
mineral contents of commercially available bottled waters. The magnesium
content of bottled water available in North America ranged from 1 to 120 mg/l,
and the calcium content ranged from 1 to 240 mg/l, whereas bottled waters that
are commercially available in Europe ranged in concentration from 0 to
546 mg/l for calcium and from 1 to 126 mg/l for magnesium. A comprehensive
follow-up study by Azoulay and colleagues (2001) on a wide range of com-
mercially available bottled waters suggested that the mineral levels varied
tremendously in bottled waters sold in North America. Generally, the bottled
waters imported from Europe contained higher mineral levels than local bottled
46 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




waters. It is believed that mineral intake from spring waters among North
Americans is minimal, as only some North American mineral waters contain
high calcium and magnesium levels.
   Rosborg et al. (2005) studied the concentrations of about 50 metals and ions
in 33 different brands of bottled waters on the Swedish market. Ten of the
brands showed calcium concentrations of ~10 mg/l and magnesium levels of <3
mg/l, implying that they could be soft water in origin. Furthermore, a large
variation in the concentrations, especially of macroelements such as Ca2+, Mg2+,
Na+, K+ and Cl, was found in the bottled waters. The concentrations of calcium
and magnesium in tap water and bottled water in different parts of the world are
summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2. Calcium and magnesium contents of tap water and bottled water in different
parts of the world
                           Ca2+ concentration (mg/l)       Mg2+ concentration (mg/l)
                           Mean     Median Range           Mean Median Range
  (a) Surface water       34 ± 21     36        2–83       10 ± 8     8        0–29
  sources (n = 36)
  (b) Groundwater          52 ± 24   48    26–85           20 ± 13     12     2–48
  sources (n = 8)
  (a) Spring water (n =    18 ± 22   6      0–76           8 ± 18      3      0–95
  28)
  (b) Mineral water (n = 100 ± 125   8     3–310           24 ± 42     7      1–130
  29)
  (a) Low-mineral          60 ± 40   54    4–145           16 ± 19     14     1–110
  water (n = 40)
  (b) Medium-mineral      262 ± 139 217    78–575          64 ± 37     56     9–128
  water (n = 26)
  (c) High-mineral         60 ± 59   33    5–176           16 ± 20     9      4–60
  water (n = 7)
  (a) Distilled water (n     NA      0      0–0.1            NA       NA       NA
  = 9)
  (b) Mineral water (n =     NA      12   0.2–20.8           NA       NA       NA
  4)
  (c) Imported mineral       NA     NA     12–199            NA       NA       NA
  water (n = 12)
NA, Not available
Source: Summarized data based on Garzon and Eisenberg     (1998), Von Wiesenberger
(1999) and Azoulay et al. (2001).
                                                         Mineral composition of water 47




3.4 WATER LOSS, WATER INTAKE AND DIETARY
    SOURCES OF WATER
A review of the research designed to define the fluid requirements of humans
increases one’s appreciation for the complexity of the issue. A multitude of
intra- and interindividual factors influence water requirements. The impractical-
ity of establishing a general total water requirement was reiterated in the Dietary
Reference Intakes for Water, Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate (IOM
2004):

   Given the extreme variability in water needs, which are not solely based on
   differences in metabolism, but also in environmental conditions and activity, there
   is not a single level of water intake that would ensure adequate hydration and
   optimal health for half of all apparently healthy persons in all environmental
   conditions.


3.4.1 Water loss
For sedentary to moderately active individuals under temperate conditions,
water lost from the body includes respiration, urinary and faecal losses and
evaporation. Water lost via sweating is usually low in temperate, sedentary
conditions, but profuse sweating can be a major source of water and electrolyte
loss for persons exercising or labouring in extreme heat and/or humidity. During
physical exertion, sweating presents the most highly variable water loss. Sweat
rates can reach 3–4 litres per hour and vary significantly between individuals. In
addition to inherent individual differences, sweat production is also affected by
intensity and duration of exertion, age, sex, level of conditioning, heat acclima-
tization, air temperature, humidity, wind velocity, cloud cover and clothing.

3.4.2 Water intake
Several basic considerations are required to determine the potential benefit of
minerals in drinking-water. One is the volume of water consumed. Numerous
factors affect both water requirements and water consumption. Data from
studies determining the fluid requirements of people under a variety of condi-
tions are abundant. Total daily fluid requirements have been shown to range
from as little as 2 litres per day to 16 litres per day, depending on the work load
and the level of heat stress.
    Reference values of water required for hydration for female and male adults
and children under average conditions are 2.2, 2.9 and 1 litres/day, respectively;
4.5 litres/day for all three segments under manual labour conditions at high
48 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




temperature; and 4.8 litres/day during pregnancy and 3.3 litres/day during
lactation (Howard and Bartram 2003).
   The most significant conclusions that can be drawn from an examination of
water intake studies are the limited scientific data and the magnitude of the
variability within and among individuals. Of interest is not only the wide range
of intakes for total water, but also the variance in the water content of the food
consumed. For example, total water intake by males 31–50 years of age who
participated in the third United States National Health and Nutrition Examina-
tion Survey (NHANES III) was 2100 ml/day for the 5th percentile and 6340
ml/day for the 95th percentile. Total water intake from food for the same
population was 372 ml/day for the 5th percentile and 1251 ml/day for the 95th
percentile. Understanding the diversity of people’s diets, the numerous factors
that affect requirements and the fact that euhydration can be achieved with a
wide range of water intakes is paramount to answering the question, “How
much fluid do I need to drink?”
   Most countries do not include water in their dietary reference values, nor are
water intake data available for most countries or populations. Data from the
United States NHANES and two German surveys were compared and contrasted
(Manz and Wentz 2005). The German surveys included one on children, the
German Dortmund Nutritional and Anthropometric Longitudinally Designed
Study, and one on adults, the Cooperative Study: Nutrition Survey and Risk
Factor Analysis. Compared with the German population, the population of the
United States had a higher intake of total water (from fluids and food) and a
higher urinary volume, which was interpreted as a more favourable hydration
status. In view of the negative effects of chronic mild hypohydration on several
diseases and physiological, physical and cognitive functions, the interest in
establishing population reference values for total water intake is increasing.

3.4.3 Dietary sources of water
Water is ingested as water in food (inherent and/or added during preparation)
and water in beverages. Table 3.3 shows the water content of a variety of foods
and beverages. Metabolic water (water produced during the metabolism of food)
is also a source of water, although the amount is relatively small. By far the
most important source of water is from beverages, including drinking-water.
   The types of beverages consumed can have a significant impact on the
nutrient intake of an individual or population. Water is an essential nutrient and
is provided by all beverages. Many beverages, however, are also sources of
other essential nutrients. For example, in addition to water, fruit and vegetable
juices and milk provide significant amounts of essential vitamins and minerals.
                                                        Mineral composition of water 49




Drinking-water can be a significant source of minerals, depending on the
mineral content and the volume consumed.
Table 3.3. Water content of select foods and beverages (adapted from Grandjean and
Campbell 2004)

 Food and beverages                                                    % water
 Beverages
 Water, brewed tea, brewed coffee, diet soft drinks,                   90–100
 canned/bottled tea, sports drinks, lemonade, vegetable juice
 Milk (skim, 1%, 2%, whole, chocolate), soft drinks (regular),          85–90
 fruit juice, fruit drinks
 Soup
 Clear broth, French onion, vegetable beef, minestrone, tomato,         90–95
 cream of mushroom (made with water)
 Chicken noodle, chunky minestrone, chunky soups, tomato,               80–90
 cream of mushroom (made with milk)
 Fruits and vegetables
 Strawberries, melons, grapefruits, peaches, pears, oranges,            80–85
 apples, grapes, cucumbers, lettuce, celery, tomatoes, cabbage,
 broccoli, onions, carrots
 Banana, potatoes, corn                                                 70–75
 Dairy
 Cottage cheese and yoghurt                                             75–80
 Pudding, milkshake, eggnog                                             70–75
 Ice cream                                                              50–60
 Cheese                                                                 40–50
 Grains
 Cooked cereals                                                         85–90
 Rice and pasta                                                         65–80
 Breads, bagels, biscuits                                               30–45
 Ready-to-eat breakfast cereals                                          2–5
 Meat, fish and eggs
 Fish and seafood                                                       70–80
 Eggs (scrambled, fried, poached), omelette, egg substitute             65–80
 Beef, chicken, lamb, pork, turkey, veal                                45–65
 Jerky, bacon                                                           15–30
 Mixed dishes
 Stew, pasta and meat dishes, casseroles (with meat and                 60–80
 meatless), meatloaf, tacos, enchiladas, macaroni and cheese,
 vegetarian quiche
 Pizza                                                                  50–60
50 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




 Table 3.3 (continued)
 Food and beverages                                                % water
 Meal replacement drinks
 All liquid drinks for weight loss, muscle gain, meal              70–85
 replacement
 Snacks, candies, confections
 Chips, pretzels, candies, crackers, puffs, dried fruit, popcorn    1–10
 Seeds and nuts                                                      1–5
 Sauces, gravies and dips
 Sauces and gravies                                                50–85
 Dips (salsa, sour cream–based, bean)                              70–90



3.5 SWEAT LOSS AND CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
    BALANCE
It is known that minerals (e.g. calcium, iron, magnesium, manganese, potas-
sium, sodium, zinc, phosphorus, copper, molybdenum) are lost in sweat, and a
significant amount of research in this area has been conducted over the last
several decades. The vast majority of studies have examined sodium and
potassium loss and repletion. A handful of studies have examined calcium and
magnesium in sweat.
    A study conducted to determine changes in bone mineral content in members
of a men’s college basketball team found that total body bone mineral content in
the men decreased 3.8% from preseason to midseason, increased 1.1% in the
off-season and decreased an additional 3.3% during summer practice (Klesges et
al. 1996). One of several findings of the study was that calcium lost in sweat
averaged 422 mg per training session. However, the amount of calcium lost
decreased over time (e.g. 624, 462 and 179 mg on days 1, 2 and 3), owing to
decreases in both the amount of sweat and the calcium concentration per litre of
sweat. This would be consistent with the decrease in sodium loss seen with
acclimatization.
    The significance of sweat-related calcium loss comes into clear focus when
one realizes that the net intestinal absorption of calcium in non-pregnant adults
averages only about 10%. Thus, extra sweat loss of 200 mg could require an
additional oral intake of as much as 2000 mg if the skeleton is to be protected.
The general unfeasibility of such increases in calcium intake explains both the
bone loss recorded across the practice and playing season and the protection
afforded by calcium supplement tablets (Klesges et al. 1996).
                                                     Mineral composition of water 51




   A study on three healthy young men assessed mineral losses in sweat and the
relation of each mineral to balance and requirements (Consolazio et al. 1963).
Chemical analyses of the food composites, urine, faeces and sweat were
performed for five minerals, which included magnesium. Results showed that
magnesium sweat excretion averaged 2.3 mg/h and, unlike some other minerals,
did not decrease appreciably during acclimatization. The researchers also found
that the sweat loss did not greatly affect the magnesium balance due to an
extremely high retention of magnesium.


3.6 ABSORBABILITY OF CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
    IN WATER
Interest in water as a source of minerals has prompted studies on the bio-
availability of calcium and magnesium and water’s potential nutritional
contribution.

3.6.1 Calcium
Using a dual-label stable isotope technique, Couzy et al. (1995) compared the
absorption and urinary excretion of calcium from carbonate- and sulfate-rich
water with those of calcium from milk in women 21–36 years of age. Nine
women completed two study periods during which the subjects ate the same diet
for the first 3 days. On the 4th and 5th days, the subjects consumed either milk
or calcium- and sulfate-rich water. Calcium from the calcium- and sulfate-rich
water was as well absorbed and retained as the calcium from milk.
   A review of published and unpublished data (Heaney 2006) showed that the
absorbability of the calcium in the waters tested is comparable to the
absorbability of calcium in milk when studied under similar conditions (see
Figure 3.1). Heaney (2006) concluded that the calcium in high-calcium mineral
waters is highly absorbable and that mineral water consumption can potentially
account for a substantial fraction of total daily calcium intake, noting that high-
calcium water functions much like a supplement — i.e. it provides basically a
single nutrient (or, at most, two, in the case of the bicarbonate-rich waters). By
contrast, milk, the comparator source most widely used to evaluate the
absorbability of other calcium sources, provides, in addition to its calcium, a
broad array of other nutrients important for total body as well as skeletal health.
   However, given the demonstrated good absorbability of calcium in drinking-
water, it seems clear that high-calcium waters can make an appreciable
contribution to total intake. One litre of a water containing ~300 mg of calcium
per litre will provide an amount of calcium equal to one dairy serving. There is
52 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




evidence that the counter-ion accompanying calcium (principally sulfate or
bicarbonate) affects retention of the absorbed calcium to a small extent, but the
same is true for food sources of calcium. Thus, depending upon the volume
consumed, a medium- to high-calcium mineral water can make a useful
contribution to total daily calcium intake.

       1.0


                                                                     with food
       0.8                                                           fasting




       0.6




       0.4




       0.2




       0.0
             60        80      100              150          200                 300

                                     LOAD SIZE (mg)

Figure 3.1. Fractional absorption from seven studies of high-calcium mineral waters. The
regression line is plotted for historical data for milk calcium, ingested as part of a meal
and studied over a wide range of load sizes. It is the least squares, best-fit line with its
95% confidence limits. (The actual data points to which this line is fitted are not shown.)
Circles represent mean values in studies in which the water was ingested as part of a test
meal, and triangles, studies in which the water was ingested fasting and without co-
ingested food. Error bars for the individual studies are ±2 SEM (from Heaney 2006).

    To determine if a high-calcium mineral water would replete both water and
calcium lost during physical exertion, a study was conducted on male triathletes
to assess the acute effects of an intensive endurance cycling exercise on
biochemical bone markers (Guillemant et al. 2004). Consumption of 972 mg of
calcium given in 2 litres of water just prior to and during exercise completely
eliminated the increase in osteoclastic bone resorption (calcium loss) observed
in the control group given low-calcium water (9 mg/l).
    Elevated concentrations of intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) induce an
increase in bone turnover, which is accompanied by increased bone loss. Oral
intake of calcium increases serum calcium and lowers iPTH concentrations. A
                                                    Mineral composition of water 53




study was conducted on healthy young men to determine if high-calcium
mineral water (344.7 mg/l) is an efficient additional source of dietary calcium
and to elucidate its effect on serum iPTH concentration and bone resorption
(Guillemant et al. 2000). Results showed that a moderate dose of calcium (172
mg of elemental calcium), provided by consuming 0.5 litre of water, inhibited
iPTH secretion and bone resorption. The authors concluded that drinking
calcium-rich mineral water several times a day could be recommended, because
it would provide both supplemental calcium and adequate hydration in addition
to the inhibitory effect on iPTH secretion and bone resorption.

3.6.2 Magnesium
To determine magnesium bioavailability from magnesium-rich mineral water
(110 mg/l), women aged 25–45 years consumed, in a cross-over design, water
with or without a meal (Sabatier et al. 2002). Absorption of magnesium was
45.7 ± 4.6% from the water alone and was significantly greater when the water
was consumed with a meal (52.3 ± 3.9%), a relative difference of 14.4%.
Furthermore, magnesium retention was also significantly greater (11.0%) when
the water was consumed with a meal. The researchers concluded that regular
consumption of magnesium-rich mineral water could make a valuable contrib-
ution to magnesium requirements.
   Another study examined the bioavailability of magnesium from mineral
water, with men aged 25–42 years as subjects (Verhas et al. 2002). Each subject
completed two sessions: in one, they consumed 300 ml of water containing 1.2
mmol magnesium, and in the other, the magnesium was injected intravenously.
Dietary intake was assessed prior to initiation of the study and in a weekly diary
during the study. The mean bioavailability was 59.1 ± 13.6%. The range of
absorption was 36.1–84.8%, with absorption being significantly inversely
correlated with age.
   Data on the absorbability of magnesium from water are sparse. However, the
same considerations as specified for calcium should be applied to determine the
relative contribution of waterborne magnesium. In both children and adults,
fractional intestinal magnesium absorption is inversely proportional to the
amount of magnesium ingested, but is always substantially greater than net
absorption of calcium, averaging about 50%. Hence, one can expect the
absorbability of magnesium from waters to be at least as good as that of
magnesium from food.
   Among healthy adults in the United States, dietary intake of magnesium is
limiting, with more than 60% of men and women more than 19 years of age
consuming less than the Estimated Average Requirement (EAR) of 330–350
54 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




and 255–265 mg/day, respectively (Moshfegh et al. 2005). Although
magnesium is widely distributed in foods, its content is highly variable. Foods
such as unrefined grains and nuts have high magnesium concentrations, whereas
meats, starches and dairy products have reduced levels. Forty-five per cent of
dietary magnesium in the United States comes from fruits, vegetables, grains
and nuts, with about 30% contributed from milk, meat and eggs (Pennington
and Young 1991). Beverages are a variable source of magnesium, with higher
concentrations in wine, intermediate levels in milk and beer and lower
concentrations in tap and bottled water (Lukaski 1995).
   Magnesium intake can be appreciably influenced by water consumption
(Marier 1990; IOM 1997). Because the magnesium concentration of tap water is
related to the degree of hardness (e.g. calcium and magnesium contents), it has
been estimated that drinking-water can contribute 40–100 mg/day (Marier
1990). Bottled water can also supply a significant amount of magnesium (30
mg/day) (Marier 1990). Thus, water may be a significant source of magnesium,
accounting for 29–38% of the EAR for adults.

3.7 THE POTENTIAL CONTRIBUTION OF DRINKING-
    WATER TO HUMAN NUTRITION
Drinking-water is 100% water, with the water content of other beverages
ranging from 85% to 100% (see Table 3.2). Although research is limited, the
studies reviewed herein underscore that mineral-rich water can contribute to
calcium and magnesium intake, balance and overall nutrition. Several factors
will determine the relative nutritional contribution on both an individual and a
population basis, including the amount of mineral per volume, the volume
consumed and the frequency and regularity of consumption.


3.8 CONCLUSION
This chapter attempts to illustrate the inherent variations in the mineral content
of drinking-water and briefly review the potential contribution of drinking-water
to calcium and magnesium intake. As summarized in Table 3.2 in section 3.3, in
some geographical areas, the magnesium and calcium contents of drinking-
waters (including tap and bottled waters) are extremely low and may provide
little supplementation towards a person’s daily requirement. Physiologically,
waterborne minerals are in ionic form, which tend to be easily absorbed by the
human gastrointestinal tract; thus, water can be an important source of mineral
intake. Furthermore, waterborne magnesium is known to be more bioavailable
than magnesium obtained from foods and thus may be more important clinically
(Durlach et al. 1985). Although certain minerals in water may be useful in
                                                        Mineral composition of water 55




providing essential micronutrients, such as calcium, magnesium and zinc, so far
there are no guidelines on minimum concentrations of these minerals in
drinking-water.
   Globally, owing to the growing concern that certain constituents or
contaminants of potable water may affect health, consumption of tap water has
decreased and consumption of bottled water has increased significantly over the
last two decades. However, the quality of bottled waters available throughout
the world varies tremendously. European bottled waters tend to contain higher
levels of minerals than North American tap and bottled waters. In contrast, most
of the local Asian bottled waters are low in all minerals, as they are usually
obtained through membrane treatment, reverse osmosis or distillation. Some
countries have national standards for bottled water, and some have national
certification schemes; the Codex Alimentarius Commission of the FAO and
WHO (http://www.codexalimentarius.net/web/index_en.jsp) provides interna-
tional standards for bottled/packaged water and bottled mineral water. Based on
existing knowledge and the fact that bottled water constitutes an increasing
market in the world and may affect health, we can see the urgent need for more
appropriate recommendations for mineral concentrations in bottled water. While
chemical and microbial contaminants continue to be a global concern of
drinking-water suppliers, efforts are obviously needed to reorient and set new
and better priorities for drinking-water practices, including potential benefits.


3.9 REFERENCES
al-Saleh, I. and al-Doush, I. (1998) Survey of trace elements in household and bottled
     drinking water samples collected in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Sci. Total Environ.
     27(216), 181–192.
Azoulay, A., Garzon, P. and Eisenberg, M.J. (2001) Comparison of the mineral content
     of tap water and bottled waters. J. Gen. Intern. Med. 16, 168–175.
CAC (1997) Codex Standard for Natural Mineral Waters. Codex Alimentarius
     Commission, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome, and
     World Health Organization, Geneva (Codex Standard 108 – 1981, Rev. 1 – 1997;
     http://www.codexalimentarius.net/web/standard_list.do?lang=en).
CAC (2001) General Standard for Bottled/Packaged Drinking Waters (Other than
     Natural Mineral Waters. Codex Alimentarius Commission, Food and Agriculture
     Organization of the United Nations, Rome, and World Health Organization, Geneva
     (Codex        Standard       227-2001;        http://www.codexalimentarius.net/web/
     standard_list.do?lang=en).
Consolazio, C.F., Matoush, L.O., Nelson, R.A., Hardings, R.S. and Canham, J.E. (1963)
     Excretion of sodium, potassium, magnesium and iron in human sweat and the
     relation of each to balance and requirements. J. Nutr. 79, 407–415.
56 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Couzy, F., Kastenmayer, P., Vigo, M., Clough, J., Munoz-Box, R. and Barclay, D.V.
     (1995) Calcium bioavailability from a calcium- and sulfate-rich mineral water,
     compared with milk, in young adult women. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 62, 1239–1244.
Drinking Water Inspectorate (2004) Annual Report 2004. Environment and Heritage
     Services, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, London, United
     Kingdom.
Durlach, J., Bara, M. and Guiet-Bara, A. (1985) Magnesium level in drinking water and
     cardiovascular risk factor: a hypothesis. Magnesium 4, 5–15.
Ferrier, C. (2001) Bottled Water: Understanding a Social Phenomenon. World Wildlife
     Fund, Washington, DC, April, p. 13.
Garzon, P. and Eisenberg, M.J. (1998) Variation in the mineral content of commercially
     available bottled waters: implications for health and disease. Am. J. Med. 105, 125–
     130.
Grandjean, A.C. and Campbell, S.M. (2004) Hydration: Fluids for Life. A monograph by
     the North American Branch of the International Life Sciences Institute, pp. 30–31,
     Washington, DC (http://orig.ilsi.org/file/ACF7B00.pdf, accessed February 2007).
Guillemant, J., Le, H.-T., Accarie, C., du Moncel, S.T., Delabroise, A.M., Arnaud, M.J.
     and Guillemant, S. (2000) Mineral water as a source of dietary calcium: acute
     effects on parathyroid function and bone resorption in young men. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.
     71, 999–1002.
Guillemant, J., Accarie, C., Peres, G. and Guillemant, S. (2004) Acute effects of an oral
     calcium load on markers of bone metabolism during endurance cycling exercise in
     male athletes. Calcif. Tissue Int. 74, 407–414.
Heaney, R.P. (2006) Absorbability and utility of calcium in mineral waters. Am. J. Clin.
     Nutr. 84, 371–374.
Howard, G. and Bartram, J. (2003) Domestic Water Quality, Service Level and Health.
     World Health Organization, Geneva (WHO/SDE/WSH/3.0).
IOM (1997) Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin
     D, and Fluoride. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation
     of Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309063507/
     html).
IOM (2004) Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and
     Sulfate. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of Dietary
     Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine. National
     Academies Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309091691/html/).
Klesges, R.C., Ward, K.D., Shelton, M.L., Applegate, W.B., Cantler, E.D., Palmieri,
     G.M., Harmon, K. and Davis, J. (1996) Changes in bone mineral content in male
     athletes. Mechanisms of action and intervention effects. JAMA 276, 226–230.
Kumar, M., Singh, S. and Mahajan, R.K. (2006) Trace level determination of U, Zn, Cd,
     Pb and Cu in drinking water samples. Environ. Monit. Assess. 112, 283–292.
Lukaski, H.C. (1995) Prevention and treatment of magnesium deficiency in athletes. In
     Magnesium and Physical Activity (ed. L. Vecchiet), pp. 211–226, Parthenon
     Publishing Group, Carnforth.
Manz, F. and Wentz, A. (2005) Hydration status in the United States and Germany. Nutr.
     Rev. 62, S55–S62.
Marier, J.R. (1990) Dietary magnesium and drinking water: Effects on human health
     status. In Metal Ions in Biological Systems, vol. 29, Compendium on Magnesium
                                                         Mineral composition of water 57




     and Its Roles in Biology, Nutrition and Physiology (ed. H. Sigel and A. Sigel), pp.
     85–104, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York.
Masironi, R., Koirtyohann, S.R., Pierce, J.O. and Schamschula, R.G. (1976) Calcium
     content of river water, trace element concentrations in toenails, and blood pressure
     in village populations in New Guinea. Sci. Total Environ. 6, 41–53.
Moshfegh, A., Goldman, J. and Cleveland, L. (2005) What We Eat in America, NHANES
     2001–2002: Usual Nutrient Intakes from Food Compared to Dietary Reference
     Intakes. Agricultural Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
Nair, R.R., Eapen, J.T., Radhakumary, C. and Rajasree, S. (1995) Magnesium levels in
     serum and erythrocytes of children from Kerala. Natl. Med. J. India 8, 118–120.
NRDC (1999) Bottled Water: Pure Drink or Pure Hype? Natural Resources Defense
     Council, New York, March.
Olajire, A.A. and Imeokparia, F.E. (2001) Water quality assessment of Osun River:
     studies on inorganic nutrients. Environ. Monit. Assess. 69(1), 17–28.
Pennington, J.A. and Young, B.E. (1991) Total diet study nutritional elements. J. Am.
     Diet. Assoc. 91, 179–183.
Pip, E. (2000) Survey of bottled drinking water available in Manitoba, Canada. Environ.
     Health Perspect. 108, 863–866.
Radhakrishna, M., Haseena, M., Nisha, K.V. and Maliya, P.S. (2003) Bacteriological
     study of bottled drinking water marketed in Mangalore. J. Commun. Dis. 35, 123–
     128.
Reimann, C. and Banks, D. (2004) Setting action levels for drinking water: are we
     protecting our health or our economy (or our backs!)? Sci. Total Environ. 332, 13–
     21.
Rosborg, I., Nihlgard, B., Gerhardsson, L., Gernersson, M.L., Ohlin, R. and Olsson, T.
     (2005) Concentrations of inorganic elements in bottled waters on the Swedish
     market. Environ. Geochem. Health 27, 217–227.
Sabatier, M., Arnaud, M.J., Kastenmayer, P., Rytz, A. and Barclay, D.V. (2002) Meal
     effect on magnesium bioavailability from mineral water in healthy women. Am. J.
     Clin. Nutr. 75, 65–71.
Sjors, H. and Gunnarsson, U. (2002) Calcium and pH in north and central Swedish mire
     waters. J. Ecol. 90, 650–657.
Verhas, M., de la Gueronniere, V., Grognet, J.-M., Paternot, J., Hermanne, A., Van den
     Winkel, P., Gheldof, R., Martin, P., Fantino, M. and Rayssiguier, Y. (2002)
     Magnesium bioavailability from mineral water. A study in adult men. Eur. J. Clin.
     Nutr. 56, 442–447.
Von Wiesenberger, A. (1999) The Pocket Guide to Bottled Water. Contemporary Books,
     Chicago, IL.
Yang, C.Y. (1998) Calcium and magnesium in drinking water and risk of death from
     cerebrovascular disease. Stroke 29, 411–414.
Yang, C.Y. and Hung, C.F. (1998) Colon cancer mortality and total hardness levels in
     Taiwan’s drinking water. Arch. Environ. Contam. Toxicol. 35, 148–151.
Yang, C.Y., Chiu, J.F., Chiu, H.F., Wang, T.N., Lee, C.H. and Ko, Y.C. (1996)
     Relationship between water hardness and coronary mortality in Taiwan. J. Toxicol.
     Environ. Health 49, 1–9.
Yang, C.Y., Chiu, H.F., Chiu, J.F., Cheng, M.F. and Kao, W.Y. (1997) Gastric cancer
     mortality and drinking water qualities in Taiwan. Arch. Environ. Contam. Toxicol.
     33, 336–340.
58 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Yang, C.Y., Tsai, S.S., Lai, T.C., Hung, C.F. and Chiu, H.F. (1999) Rectal cancer
    mortality and total hardness levels in Taiwan’s drinking water. Environ. Res. 80,
    311–316.
Yang, C.Y., Chiu, H.F., Tsai, S.S., Chang, C.C. and Sung, F.C (2002a) Magnesium in
    drinking water and the risk of delivering a child of very low birth weight. Magnes.
    Res. 15, 207–213.
Yang, C.Y., Chiu, H.F., Chang, C.C., Wu, T.N. and Sung, F.C (2002b) Association of
    very low birth weight with calcium levels in drinking water. Environ. Res. 89, 189–
    194.
4


Identifying magnesium
deﬁciency: A diagnostic
dilemma
R.J. Elin




The assessment of magnesium status provides a challenge to clinical medicine
and biomedical technology. Blood is the tissue of choice used in clinical
medicine for the assessment of most analytes. For many of the analytes, the
concentration in the blood offers information about extracellular and intra-
cellular status. This is not the case for magnesium. Serum and red blood cell
magnesium concentrations have been shown to be poor predictors of intra-
cellular magnesium concentration. Thus, the assessment of magnesium status
becomes difficult, since approximately 99% of the total body magnesium is in
bone and intracellular in soft tissue.
   The definition of magnesium deficiency seems simple, but it is complicated
by the lack of available clinical tests for the assessment of magnesium status.
Ideally, we would define magnesium deficiency as a reduction in the total body
magnesium content. Tests should be available to identify which tissues are
deficient and the state of magnesium in these tissues. Unfortunately, this
definition of magnesium deficiency is incompatible with current technology.
60 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Thus, from a practical sense, magnesium deficiency has been defined by clinical
medicine as a serum magnesium concentration below the reference interval for
the laboratory. There are problems with this functional definition. Certainly,
there are individuals with a serum magnesium concentration within the refer-
ence interval that have a total body deficit for magnesium. This is especially
likely when an individual has a chronic, marginally negative magnesium bal-
ance, as the serum concentration may be supported by magnesium from other
tissue pools, particularly bone. However, clinical medicine has chosen to use the
serum magnesium concentration as the standard for magnesium deficiency,
imperfect as it may be.
    Is the reference interval established by clinical laboratories valid to diagnose
magnesium deficiency? Using data from the first National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (NHANES I) in the United States and a United States
population of 15 820 between the ages of 1 and 74 years, Lowenstein and
Stanton (1986) established the reference interval (central 95th percentile) for the
serum magnesium concentration of 0.75–0.955 mmol/l. This study used atomic
absorption spectroscopy, the reference method for determining serum mag-
nesium, and is scientifically and statistically valid. However, we do not know
what percentage of this population had an inadequate intake of magnesium and
may have been magnesium deficient. Thus, the lower limit of the reference
interval may have been flawed by having subjects in the “normal” population
that were deficient in magnesium.
    How likely is it that a significant portion of the population in the NHANES I
study had an inadequate intake of magnesium? The intake of magnesium by the
average citizen of the United States has progressively declined over the past
century (Marier 1982; Ford and Mokdad 2003). The processing of food and the
shift to a higher percentage of fast food, which is essentially devoid of
magnesium, in the diet have effected this progressive decreased intake of
magnesium. Thus, similar to the situation with cholesterol, the reference interval
for the serum magnesium concentration as established by the laboratory may not
adequately identify those individuals with magnesium deficiency, since the
lower limit of the reference interval is flawed, being too low for health
(Liebscher and Liebscher 2004). To correct this problem, it is recommended that
the reference interval for the serum magnesium concentration be established by
evidence-based medicine for health, similar to the process that was used for
cholesterol. This would then alert physicians to patients who have a magnesium
deficiency based on their serum magnesium concentration and enable them to
adjust their diet for a greater intake of magnesium or consider oral supple-
mentation with magnesium. This is where the magnesium concentration of the
drinking-water is very important. In theory, the higher the magnesium content of
                              Identifying magnesium deﬁciency: A diagnostic dilemma 61




the drinking-water, the greater the intake of magnesium for the subject, which
would lessen the risk of disease entities associated with magnesium deficiency.


4.1 REFERENCES
Ford, E.S. and Mokdad, A.H. (2003) Dietary magnesium intake in a national sample of
    U.S. adults. J. Nutr. 133, 2879–2882.
Liebscher, D.H. and Liebscher, D.E. (2004) About the misdiagnosis of magnesium
    deficiency. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 23, 730S–731S.
Lowenstein, F.W. and Stanton, M.F. (1986) Serum magnesium levels in the United
    States, 1971–1974. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 5, 399–414.
Marier, J.R. (1982) Quantitative factors regarding magnesium status in the modern-day
    world. Magnesium 1, 3–15.
5


Magnesium deﬁciency:
Clinical and experimental
aspects
W.B. Weglicki




5.1 INTRODUCTION
The average diet in the United States is deficient in magnesium (Pao and Mickle
1981; Lichton 1989; see also Table 2.2 in chapter 2). A survey of mean daily
magnesium consumption revealed that intake was only 68% of the
Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) of magnesium for adult women and
80% of the RDA for adult men (National Research Council 1989; for RDAs, see
Table 2.1 in chapter 2). The average pregnant woman in the United States
consumes only 34–58% of her RDA for magnesium (Franz 1987). Data on the
dietary intake of magnesium collected from a variety of dietary studies and
summarized in Table 2.3 of chapter 2 suggest that the situation is similar in
many other countries of the world.
                            Magnesium deﬁciency: Clinical and experimental aspects 63




5.2 HYPOMAGNESAEMIA: CLINICAL ASPECTS
Hypomagnesaemia is common in hospitalized patients: in one study, 63% of
intensive care patients exhibited hypomagnesaemia, and 45% of patients with
acute myocardial infarction had hypomagnesaemia (Dubey and Solomon 1989).
In acutely ill patients, the mortality rate of those with hypomagnesaemia was
double that of the normomagnesaemic group (Rubeiz et al. 1993). In the case of
chronic severe hypomagnesaemia in a child, congenital magnesium wasting due
to nephropathy led to progressive dilated hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and,
ultimately, to his death at age 14 (Riggs et al. 1992). Hypomagnesaemia also
occurs in other segments of the population — diabetics, alcoholics, those
infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) (Moseson et al. 1989)
and those receiving magnesium-wasting drugs — leading to overt hypo-
magnesaemia.
    Symptoms of hypomagnesaemia are diverse and include muscle cramps,
extra heart beats and neuromuscular irritability associated with convulsions in
very severe cases. However, no specific pattern of symptoms/signs is clearly
diagnostic for hypomagnesaemia, which has been defined by clinical medicine
as a serum magnesium concentration below the reference interval for a labora-
tory.


5.3 DIETARY MAGNESIUM DEFICIENCY: ANIMAL
    STUDIES
Severe dietary magnesium deficiency leads to profound hypomagnesaemia and
diverse pathology in animal models: myocardial necrosis, neuromuscular
hyperexcitability, arrhythmia, hyperirritability, erythema, haemorrhagic skin
lesions, enhanced atherosclerosis, increased indices of oxidative injury
(including decreased red blood cell glutathione) and enhanced myocardial
susceptibility to ischaemia–reperfusion stress (Kramer et al. 1997). Investiga-
tions into the pathological mechanism of magnesium deficiency in rodents led to
the discovery that circulating levels of the proinflammatory neuropeptide,
substance P (SP), were significantly elevated. This early neuropeptide release
probably emanated from sensory motor neuron fibres, which are rich in neuro-
peptides. The significant rise in plasma SP preceded increases in circulating
white blood cells and other circulating inflammatory mediators (Weglicki et al.
1994). This neuropeptide may be inducing many of the later inflammatory/oxi-
dative events that eventually promote cardiomyopathy.
   Moderate dietary magnesium deficiency also induces significant systemic
inflammation. Others have reported increases in prostaglandin E2 (Soma et al.
64 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




1998), circulating histamine (Kraeuter and Schwartz 1980) and erythema
(Classen et al. 1993) in moderately magnesium-deficient rodents. Moreover, rats
fed a moderately magnesium-deficient diet displayed hypersensitivity to an
applied catecholamine stress (Kantak 1988; Uthringer et al. 1988; Atrakchi et
al. 1992). Nitric oxide (NO·) is generally thought to have beneficial
cardiovascular effects (Moncada et al. 1991; Rubanyi et al. 1991; Huie and
Padmaja 1993; Jun et al. 1994), but cytotoxicity has also been reported
(Beckman et al. 1990; Mulligan et al. 1991; Cazevieille et al. 1993; Radi et al.
1994; White et al. 1994). SP can induce endothelial cell NO· production
(Persson et al. 1991) and enhance NO· production in vivo during magnesium
deficiency. NO· production, as measured by both plasma nitrate and nitroso-
haemoglobin (complex of NO· and haem iron) formation, was shown to increase
during severe magnesium deficiency (Mak et al. 1995a,b) and was blocked by a
relatively low dose of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-
arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Rock et al. (1995) also reported NO·
elevations in severe magnesium-deficient rats.
   In our study, we observed a loss of red blood cell glutathione during the 2nd
week of magnesium deficiency (Mak et al. 1996); inhibition of NOS (by L-
NAME) attenuated depletion of red blood cell glutathione, suggesting a pro-
oxidant role for NO· during magnesium deficiency. With a mouse model
(C57B6 mice) of moderate magnesium deficiency, we recently found a >3-fold
increase in the levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA (reverse
transcriptase–polymerase chain reaction technique) in the liver after 7 weeks.
Thus, the data suggest that sustained increase in NO· production due to iNOS
induction may occur during magnesium deficiency and that this may contribute
to oxidative stress.
   The neuronal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor/channel complex
enhances the entry of substantial amounts of calcium, which is an important
mediator of both neuromodulator release (including that of SP) and tissue
injury. The NMDA complex is blocked by Mg2+ in a voltage-dependent manner
(McIntosh 1993). The protection afforded by specific NMDA receptor/channel
blockers suggests that hyperactivation of this complex contributes to injury.
Dizocilpine (MK-801), a non-competitive NMDA receptor/channel blocker, was
shown to prevent noise-mediated seizures (Pierson and Swann 1991; Nakamura
1997) and depress the acoustic startle reflex (Miserendino and Davis 1993) in
magnesium-deficient rats. Others (Dubray and Rayssiguier 1997; Dubray et al.
1997) have reported that magnesium deficiency–induced hyperalgesia in rats
was decreased in a dose-dependent manner by persistent treatment with MK-
801. Findings from recent studies with MK-801-treated rats are also consistent
with NMDA complex involvement in magnesium deficiency pathology. Several
                               Magnesium deﬁciency: Clinical and experimental aspects 65




studies have also shown that magnesium therapy can ameliorate neuronal injury
(Kass et al. 1998).
   Overall, these data suggest that magnesium deficiency causes systemic
hyperactivation of the magnesium-gated NMDA receptor/channel complex,
which leads to early release of the proinflammatory neuropeptide, SP, triggering
a cascade of proinflammatory/pro-oxidative events in multiple tissues/organs
and altering susceptibility to subsequent stresses.


5.4 REFERENCES
Atrakchi, A.H., Bloom, S., Dickens, B.F., Mak, I.T. and Weglicki, W.B. (1992)
     Hypomagnesemia and isoproterenol cardiomyopathies: Protection by probucol.
     Cardiovasc. Pathol. 1, 155–160.
Beckman, J.S., Beckman, T.W., Chen, J., Marshall, P.A. and Freeman, B.A. (1990)
     Apparent hydroxyl radical production from peroxynitrite: implications for
     endothelial cell injury from nitric oxide and superoxide. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
     U. S. A. 87, 1620–1624.
Cazevieille, C., Muller, A., Meynier, F. and Bonne, C. (1993) Superoxide and nitric
     oxide cooperation in hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced neuron injury. Free Radical
     Biol. Med. 14, 389–395.
Classen, C.U., Abele, C., Schimatschek, H.F., Friedberg, K.D., Classen, H.G. and
     Haubold, W. (1993) Erythema formation in magnesium deficient albino rats. A non-
     invasive model for screening anti-inflammatory and oral mineral supplements.
     Arzneimittelforschung 43, 672–675.
Dubey, A. and Solomon, R. (1989) Magnesium, myocardial ischaemia and arrhythmias:
     The role of magnesium in myocardial infarction. Drugs 37, 1–7.
Dubray, C. and Rayssiguier, Y. (1997) Magnesium, inflammation and pain. In
     Magnesium: Current Status and New Developments. Theoretical, Biological and
     Medical Aspects (ed. T. Theophanides and J. Anastassopoulou), pp. 303–311,
     Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.
Dubray, C., Alloui, A., Bardin, L., Rock, E., Mazur, A., Rayssiguier, Y., Eschalier, A.
     and Levarenne, J. (1997) Magnesium deficiency induces an hyperalgesia reversed
     by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. Neuroreport 8, 1383–1386.
Franz, K.B. (1987) Magnesium intake during pregnancy. Magnesium 6, 18–27.
Huie, R.E. and Padmaja, S. (1993) The reaction of NO with superoxide. Free Radic. Res.
     Commun. 18, 195–199.
Jun, C.-D., Lee, J.-Y., Lee, B.-S., Choi, B.-M., Um, J.-Y., Kwak, H.-J., Jl, K.-Y., Kim,
     H.-M. and Chung, H.-T. (1994) Generation of nitric oxide inhibits formation of
     superoxide in macrophages during activation. Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int. 34, 1–8.
Kantak, K.M. (1988) Magnesium deficiency alters aggressive behavior and catechol-
     amine function. Behav. Neurosci. 102(2), 304–311.
Kass, I.S., Cottrell, J.E. and Chambers, G. (1998) Magnesium and cobalt, not nimodi-
     pine, protect neurons against anoxic damage in the rat hippocampal slice.
     Anesthesiology 69, 710–715.
Kraeuter, S.L. and Schwartz, R. (1980) Blood and mast cell histamine levels in
     magnesium-deficient rats. J. Nutr. 110, 851–858.
66 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Kramer, J.H., Phillips, T.M. and Weglicki, W.B. (1997) Magnesium-deficiency enhanced
     postischemic myocardial injury is reduced by substance P receptor blockade. J. Mol.
     Cell. Cardiol. 29, 97–110.
Lichton, I.J. (1989) Dietary intake levels and requirements of Mg and Ca for different
     segments of the U.S. population. Magnesium 8, 117–123.
Mak, I.T., Stafford, R.E., Dickens, B.F., Phillips, T.M. and Weglicki, W.B. (1995a) NO
     inhibition attenuates Mg-deficiency-induced oxidative injury in vivo. FASEB J. 9,
     A31 (abstract).
Mak, I.T., Kamarov, A.M., Wagner, T.L., Stafford, R.E., Dickens, B.F. and Weglicki,
     W.B. (1995b) Effect of dietary Mg-deficiency on nitric oxide (NO) production and
     the role of NO in mediating oxidative depletion of glutathione in red cells. In
     FASEB Summer Research Conference on Antioxidants in Cellular Biology of Health
     and Disease, vol. 2, FASEB, Washington, DC (abstract).
Mak, I.T., Kamarov, A.M., Wagner, T.L., Stafford, R.E., Dickens, B.F. and Weglicki,
     W.B. (1996) Enhanced nitric oxide production during Mg-deficiency and its role in
     mediating red cell glutathione loss. Am. J. Physiol. 271, C385–C390.
McIntosh, T.K. (1993) Novel pharmacologic therapies in treatment of experimental
     traumatic brain injury: a review. J. Neurotrauma 10, 215–261.
Miserendino, M.J. and Davis, M. (1993) NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists infused
     into the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis depress the acoustic startle reflex. Brain
     Res. 623, 215–222.
Moncada, S., Palmer, R.M.J. and Higgs, E.A. (1991) Nitric oxide: Physiology, patho-
     physiology, and pharmacology. Pharmacol. Rev. 43, 109–142.
Moseson, M., Zeleniuch-Jacquotte, A., Belsito, D.V., Shore, R.E., Marmor, M. and
     Pasternack, B. (1989) The potential role of nutritional factors in the induction of
     immunologic abnormalities in HIV-positive homosexual men. J. Acquir. Immune
     Defic. Syndr. 2(3), 35–47.
Mulligan, M.S., Hevel, J.M., Marletta, M.A. and Ward, P.A. (1991) Tissue injury caused
     by the depression of immune complexes is L-arginine dependent. Proc. Natl. Acad.
     Sci. U. S. A. 88, 6338–6342.
Nakamura, M. (1997) Cardiac arrhythmias in magnesium deficiency. In Magnesium:
     Current Status and New Developments. Theoretical, Biological and Medical Aspects
     (ed. T. Theophanides and J. Anastassopoulou), pp. 215–221, Kluwer Academic
     Publishers, Dordrecht.
National Research Council (1989) Recommended Dietary Allowances, 10th edn. National
     Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/catalog/1349.html).
Pao, E.M. and Mickle, S.J. (1981) Problem nutrients in the United States. Food Technol.
     35, 58–69.
Persson, M.G., Hedqvist, P. and Gustafsson, L.E. (1991) Nerve-induced tachykinin-
     mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle is dependent on nitric oxide formation.
     Eur. J. Pharmacol. 205, 295–301.
Pierson, M. and Swann, J. (1991) Sensitization to noise-mediated induction of seizure
     susceptibility by MK-801 and phencyclidine. Brain Res. 560, 229–236.
Radi, R., Beckman, J.S., Bush, K.M. and Freeman, B.A. (1994) Peroxynitrite oxidation
     of sulfhydryls. The cytosolic potential of superoxide and nitric oxide. J. Biol. Chem.
     266, 4244–4250.
Riggs, J.E., Klingberg, W.G., Flink, E.B., Schochet, S.S.J., Balian, A.A. and Jenkins, J.J.
     (1992) Cardioskeletal mitochondrial myopathy associated with chronic magnesium
     deficiency. Neurology 42, 128–130.
                                Magnesium deﬁciency: Clinical and experimental aspects 67




Rock, E., Astier, C., Lab, C., Malpuech, C., Nowacki, W., Mazur, A. and Rayssiguier, Y.
     (1995) Magnesium deficiency enhances plasma nitric oxide level in the rat. Magnes.
     Res. 8, 237–242.
Rubanyi, G.M., Ho, E.H., Cantor, E.H., Lumma, W.C. and Botelho, L.H.P. (1991)
     Cytoprotective function of nitric oxide: Inactivation of superoxide radicals produced
     by human leukocytes. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 181, 1392–1397.
Rubeiz, G.J., Thill-Baharozian, M., Hardie, D. and Carlson, R.W. (1993) Association of
     hypomagnesemia and mortality in acutely ill medical patients. Crit. Care Med. 21,
     203–209.
Soma, M., Cunnane, S.C., Horrobin, D.F., Manku, M.S., Honda, M. and Hatano, M.
     (1998) Effects of low magnesium diet on the vascular prostaglandin and fatty acid
     metabolism in rats. Prostaglandins 36, 431–441.
Uthringer, C., Rayssiguier, Y., Gueux, E. and Berthelot, A. (1988) Effect of moderate
     magnesium deficiency on serum lipids, blood pressure and cardiovascular reactivity
     in normotensive rats. Br. J. Nutr. 59, 243–250.
Weglicki, W.B., Mak, I.T., Stafford, R.E., Dickens, B.F., Cassidy, M.M. and Phillips,
     T.M. (1994) Neurogenic peptides and the cardiomyopathy of Mg-deficiency: Effects
     of substance P-receptor inhibition. Mol. Cell Biochem. 130, 103–109.
White, C.R., Brock, T.A., Chang, L.-Y., Crapo, J., Biscoe, P., Ku, D., Bradley, W.A.,
     Gianturco, S.H., Gore, J., Freeman, B.A. and Tarpey, M.M. (1994) Superoxide and
     peroxynitrite in atherosclerosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 91, 1044–1048.
6


Magnesium
and hypertension
R.M. Touyz and B. Sontia




6.1 INTRODUCTION
Magnesium is an essential element that is critically involved in cardiac and
vascular function. Small changes in extracellular Mg2+ levels ([Mg2+]e) and/or
intracellular free Mg2+ concentrations ([Mg2+]i) have significant effects on
cardiac excitability and on vascular tone, contractility, reactivity and growth
(Laurant and Touyz 2000; Touyz and Yao 2003). Increased concentrations of
extracellular magnesium cause vasodilation, improve blood flow, decrease
vascular resistance, increase capacitance function of peripheral, coronary, renal
and cerebral arteries and attenuate agonist-induced vasoconstriction, whereas
decreased concentrations cause contraction, potentiate agonist-evoked vaso-
constriction and increase vascular tone (Laurant et al. 1997; Yoshimura et al.
1997; Laurant and Touyz 2000; Touyz and Yao 2003).
                                                    Magnesium and hypertension 69




6.2 MAGNESIUM AND EXPERIMENTAL
    HYPERTENSION
Hypomagnesaemia and decreased tissue content of magnesium have been
demonstrated in various experimental models of hypertension (Ameen et al.
1991; Laurant et al. 1995; Saito et al. 1995; Mahboob et al. 1996). In experi-
mental models with severe hypertension, [Mg2+]i is negatively correlated and
intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) is positively correlated with
systolic blood pressure; [Mg2+]i and [Ca2+]i are inversely associated (Adachi et
al. 1993; Kisters et al. 2001), suggesting that [Mg2+]i may be involved in blood
pressure regulation by competing with calcium effects. Mechanisms underlying
magnesium deficiency in experimental hypertension are unclear but could relate
to altered intestinal magnesium absorption (Wells and Agrawal 1992), defective
cellular magnesium handling and increased renal magnesium loss (Berthelot et
al. 1987; Gilles-Baillien and Cogneau 1992).
    Long-term magnesium deficiency in experimental animals potentiates
responses to vasoconstrictor agents, attenuates responses to vasodilator agents,
increases vascular tone and elevates blood pressure (Ameen et al. 1991; Laurant
et al. 1999). Some of these effects may be due to endothelial dysfunction
(Laurant and Berthelot 1994). Magnesium deficiency is associated with vascular
structural changes, including decreased lumen diameter and increased media-to-
lumen ratio, indicative of medial hypertrophy and vascular remodelling, which
are characteristic features of vascular changes in hypertension (Berthon et al.
2002). Hypomagnesaemia also promotes vascular inflammation and oxidative
stress in hypertension, which are ameliorated by antioxidant treatment (Touyz et
al. 2002).
    However, dietary magnesium loading during the prehypertensive stage and
the developing stage of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats pre-
vents the rise in blood pressure (Berthelot and Esposito 1983; Touyz and Milne
1999). These data suggest that oral magnesium may be beneficial in preventing
further blood pressure elevation if magnesium is given at a critical period during
the development of hypertension.


6.3 MAGNESIUM AND HUMAN HYPERTENSION
Epidemiological studies have linked hypertension and cardiac disease with “soft
water”, low in magnesium, and protection against cardiovascular disease with
“hard water”, high in magnesium (Geleijnse et al. 2005). The relationship
between dietary magnesium intake and blood pressure in humans was first
demonstrated in the Honolulu Heart Study (Joffres et al. 1987) and later by
70 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




many epidemiological and clinical investigations that supported the hypothesis
that increased magnesium intake contributes to prevention of hypertension and
cardiovascular disease (Whelton and Klag 1989; Van Leer et al. 1995; Simons-
Morton et al. 1997). Data from large, well conducted prospective studies on
nutrition and blood pressure in populations from the United States and the
Netherlands suggested that magnesium-rich diets may reduce blood pressure
levels, especially in older individuals (Ascherio et al. 1996; Geleijnse et al.
1996). A large retrospective study that assessed the magnesium and calcium
content of drinking-water in subjects who died from hypertension and in those
who died from other causes demonstrated that magnesium levels in drinking-
water were inversely related to the risk of death from hypertension (Yang and
Chiu 1999). Results from the cross-sectional Atherosclerosis Risk in
Communities study on 15 000 middle-aged citizens of the United States demon-
strated a negative correlation between dietary and serum magnesium levels and
both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (Kao et al. 1999). The recent data
from the third and fourth National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys
(NHANES III and NHANES IV) in the United States suggested that the
negative association between mineral intake and blood pressure was valid and
persisted over two decades (Townsend et al. 2005; Ueshima 2005). These
epidemiological studies together with experimental evidence suggest physiolog-
ical relationships between Mg2+ and blood pressure and pathophysiological
associations between Mg2+ deficiency and hypertension.
    Hypertensive patients who are hypomagnesaemic were found to require a
greater number of antihypertensive medications compared with normomagne-
saemic patients (Whang et al. 1982). A relationship has also been described
between the renin–angiotensin system, magnesium and blood pressure. High-
renin hypertensive patients have significantly lower serum magnesium levels
than normotensive subjects (Resnick et al. 1983), and serum magnesium is
inversely associated with plasma renin activity (Resnick et al. 1983). Recent
studies have also reported a negative dependency between [Mg2+]i and arterial
compliance in humans: the lower the [Mg2+]i, the stiffer the blood vessels and
the greater the blood pressure (Resnick et al. 1997). However, some studies
found no differences in serum magnesium levels or in [Mg2+]i in hypertensive
patients (Cappuccio et al. 1985; Ferrara et al. 1992), whereas others reported
increased erythrocyte [Mg2+]i in patients with essential hypertension (Sasaki et
al. 2000). Furthermore, some epidemiological studies failed to show an associ-
ation between magnesium intake and blood pressure or cardiovascular disease
(Whelton and Klag 1989; Rosenlund et al. 2005). It is evident that not all
hypertensive patients are hypomagnesaemic, and not all patients with mag-
nesium deficiency are hypertensive.
                                                    Magnesium and hypertension 71




    There are subgroups of hypertensive patients who consistently demonstrate
altered magnesium metabolism. These include individuals of African descent,
obese patients, patients with severe or malignant forms of hypertension and
those with metabolic syndrome (Touyz et al. 1995; Delva et al. 1998; Corica et
al. 1999).


6.4 MAGNESIUM AND PRE-ECLAMPSIA
Magnesium is the most frequently used treatment in the management of pre-
eclampsia and eclampsia in the United States (Lucas et al. 1995; The Eclampsia
Collaborative Group 1995; Corica et al. 1999). In fact, the recent findings of the
Magpie trial demonstrated that magnesium sulfate halves the risk of eclampsia
and probably reduces the risk of maternal death; magnesium sulfate is now
considered the therapy of choice in the management of pre-eclampsia and
eclampsia (Altman et al. 2002).
   Data relating to serum magnesium concentrations in pre-eclampsia are
conflicting, with some studies failing to demonstrate any differences between
pre-eclampsia and uncomplicated pregnancy (Frenkel et al. 1994; Sanders et al.
1998) and others reporting decreased serum and intracellular magnesium levels
in pre-eclampsia (Seydoux et al. 1992). Some investigations found total mag-
nesium levels to be higher in pre-eclamptic women (Kisters et al. 1990).
Although the exact role of magnesium in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia
remains obscure, it has been suggested that magnesium can be used as a
predictive tool for pre-eclampsia.


6.5 THE THERAPEUTIC ROLE OF MAGNESIUM IN
    HYPERTENSION
In general, data from clinical trials of magnesium therapy in hypertension have
been disappointing. Some studies reported significant blood pressure–lowering
effects of oral or intravenous magnesium treatment (Widman et al. 1993; Itoh et
al. 1997; Kawasaki et al. 1998), and magnesium supplementation to patients
already receiving diuretics or other antihypertensive agents appears to reduce
blood pressure further (Dyckner and Wester 1983; Katz et al. 1999). However,
other trials failed to demonstrate any hypotensive action of magnesium supple-
mentation (Cappuccio et al. 1985; Ferrara et al. 1992), and results from the
Trials of Hypertension Prevention showed no benefit of magnesium therapy in
698 patients followed for 6 months (Yamamoto et al. 1995). Studies that have
consistently shown a beneficial effect of magnesium treatment were performed
72 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




in black patients, those with established hypomagnesaemia, those with diuretic-
associated hypertension and those for whom magnesium was supplemented long
term (Lind et al. 1991; Ford 1998). Magnesium is also therapeutically effective
in lowering blood pressure in many forms of secondary hypertension as well as
in pre-eclampsia (Mason et al. 1996; Jurcovicova et al. 1998). Thus, although
this cation may not be a universally effective antihypertensive agent, it may
benefit a subgroup of patients with hypertension.


6.6 CONCLUSIONS
Despite strong epidemiological and experimental data supporting a role for low
magnesium in the pathogenesis of hypertension, clinical observations and clin-
ical trials have provided controversial and often conflicting results. Moreover,
the therapeutic value of magnesium in the management of hypertension is still
unclear. Before making definitive therapeutic recommendations on the use of
magnesium in the management of hypertension, well controlled, long-term
therapeutic trials in carefully characterized hypertensive patients are needed.
However, the potential benefits of magnesium are recognized, and the current
European, United States, Canadian and international guidelines have included
maintenance of adequate dietary magnesium intake as a recommendation for
lifestyle modifications for hypertension prevention management (Stergiou et al.
2004; Khan et al. 2005).


6.7 REFERENCES
Adachi, M., Nara, Y., Mano, M., Ikeda, K., Horie, R. and Yamori, Y. (1993) Intra-
     lymphocytic free calcium and magnesium in stroke-prone spontaneously hyper-
     tensive rats and effects of blood pressure and various antihypertensive agents. Clin.
     Exp. Pharmacol. Physiol. 20, 587–593.
Altman, D., Carroli, G., Duley, L., Farrell, B., Moodley, J., Neilson, J., Smith, D. and
     Magpie Trial Collaboration Group (2002) Do women with pre-eclampsia, and their
     babies, benefit from magnesium sulphate? The Magpie Trial: a randomised placebo-
     controlled trial. Lancet, 359(9321), 1877–1890.
Ameen, M., Davies, J.E. and Ng, L.L. (1991) A comparison of free intracellular calcium
     and magnesium levels in the vascular smooth muscle and striated muscle cells of the
     spontaneously hypertensive and Wistar Kyoto normotensive rat. Ann. New York
     Acad. Sci. 639, 550–553.
Ascherio, A., Hennekens, C., Willett, W.C., Sacks, F., Rosner, B., Manson, J., Witteman,
     J. and Stampfer, M.J. (1996) Prospective study of nutritional factors, blood pressure
     and hypertension among US women. Hypertension 27(5), 1065–1072.
Berthelot, A. and Esposito, J. (1983) Effects of dietary magnesium supplementation on
     the development of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. J. Am. Coll.
     Nutr. 4, 343–353.
                                                         Magnesium and hypertension 73




Berthelot, A., Luthringer, C., Meyers, E. and Exinger, A. (1987) Disturbances of
     magnesium metabolism in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 6,
     329–332.
Berthon, N., Laurant, P., Hayoz, D., Fellmann, D., Brunner, H.R. and Berthelot, A.
     (2002) Magnesium supplementation and deoxycorticosterone acetate–salt hyper-
     tension: effect on arterial mechanical properties and on activity of endothelin-1.
     Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 80(6), 553–561.
Cappuccio, F.P., Markandu, N.D., Beynon, G.W., Shore, A.C., Sampson, B. and
     MacGregor, G.A. (1985) Lack of effect of oral magnesium on high blood pressure:
     a double blind study. Br. Med. J. 291, 235–238.
Corica, F., Corsonello, A., Buemi, M., De Gregorio, T., Malara, A., Mauro, V.N.,
     Macaione, S. and Ientile, R. (1999) Platelet magnesium depletion in normotensive
     and hypertensive obese subjects: the role of salt-regulating hormones and catechol-
     amines. Magnes. Res. 12(4), 287–296.
Delva, P., Pastori, C., Montesi, G., Degan, M., Micciolo, R., Paluani, F. and Lechi, A.
     (1998) Intralymphocyte free magnesium and calcium and insulin tolerance test in a
     group of essential hypertensive patients. Life Sci. 63(16), 1405–1415.
Dyckner, T. and Wester, P.O. (1983) Effect of magnesium on blood pressure. Br. Med. J.
     286, 1847–1849.
Ferrara, L.A., Iannuzzi, R., Castaldo, A., Iannuzzi, A., Dello Russo, A. and Mancini, M.
     (1992) Long-term magnesium supplementation in essential hypertension. Cardiol-
     ogy 81, 25–33.
Ford, E.S. (1998) Race, education and dietary cations: findings from the third National
     Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Ethn. Dis. 8, 10–20.
Frenkel, Y., Weiss, M., Shefi, M., Lusky, A., Mashiach, S. and Dolev, E. (1994)
     Mononuclear cell magnesium content remains unchanged in various cell hyper-
     tensive disorders of pregnancy. Gynecol. Obstet. Invest. 38, 220–222.
Geleijnse, J.M., Witteman, J.C., den Breeijen, J.H., Hofman, A., de Jong, P.T., Pols, H.A.
     and Grobbee, D.E. (1996) Dietary electrolyte intake and blood pressure in older
     subjects: the Rotterdam Study. J. Hypertens. 14(6), 737–741.
Geleijnse, J.M., Grobbee, D.E. and Kok, F.J. (2005) Impact of dietary and lifestyle
     factors on the prevalence of hypertension in Western populations. J. Hum.
     Hypertens. 19(Suppl. 3), S1–S4.
Gilles-Baillien, M. and Cogneau, M. (1992) Mg2+ uptake by intestinal brush-border
     membrane of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 201, 119–
     124.
Itoh, K., Kawasaka, T. and Nakamura, M. (1997) The effects of high oral magnesium
     supplementation on blood pressure, serum lipids and related variables in apparently
     healthy Japanese subjects. Br. J. Nutr. 78(5), 737–750.
Joffres, M.R., Reed, D.M. and Yano, K. (1987) Relation of magnesium intake and other
     dietary factors to blood pressure: the Honolulu Heart Study. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 45,
     469–475.
Jurcovicova, J., Krueger, K.S., Nandy, I., Lewis, D.F., Brooks, G.G. and Brown, E.G.
     (1998) Expression of platelet-derived growth factor-A mRNA in human placenta:
     effect of magnesium infusion in pre-eclampsia. Placenta 19(5–6), 423–427.
Kao, W.H., Folsom, A.R., Nieto, F.J., Mo, J.P., Watson, R.L. and Brancati, F.L. (1999)
     Serum and dietary magnesium and the risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus: the
74 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




     Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study. Arch. Intern. Med. 159(18), 2151–
     2159.
Katz, A., Rosenthal, T., Maoz, C., Peleg, E., Zeidenstein, R. and Levi, Y. (1999) Effect
     of a mineral salt diet on 24 hr blood pressure monitoring in elderly hypertensive
     patients. J. Hum. Hypertens. 13(11), 777–780.
Kawasaki, T., Itoh, K. and Kawasaki, M. (1998) Reduction in blood pressure with a
     sodium-reduced potassium- and magnesium-enriched salt in subjects with mild
     essential hypertension. Hypertens. Res. 21(4), 235–243.
Khan, N.A., McAlister, F.A., Lewanczuk, R.Z., Touyz, R.M., Padwal, R., Rabkin, S.W.,
     Leiter, L.A., Lebel, M., Herbert, C., Schiffrin, E.L., Herman, R.J., Hamet, P., Fodor,
     G., Carruthers, G., Culleton, B., DeChamplain, J., Pylypchuk, G., Logan, A.G.,
     Gledhill, N., Petrella, R., Campbell, N.R., Arnold, M., Moe, G., Hill, M.D., Jones,
     C., Larochelle, P., Ogilvie, R.I., Tobe, S., Houlden, R., Burgess, E., Feldman, R.D.
     and Canadian Hypertension Education Program (2005) The 2005 Canadian
     Hypertension Education Program recommendations for the management of hyper-
     tension: Part II — Therapy. Can. J. Cardiol. 21(8), 657–672.
Kisters, K., Niedner, W., Fafwera, I. and Zidek, Z.W. (1990) Plasma and intracellular
     Mg2+ concentrations in preeclampsia. J. Hypertens. 8, 303–306.
Kisters, K., Hausberg, M. and Kosch, M. (2001) Effect of oral magnesium supplementa-
     tion on blood pressure, platelet aggregation and calcium handling in deoxy-
     corticosterone acetate–induced hypertension in rats. J. Hypertens. 19(1), 161–162.
Laurant, P. and Berthelot, A. (1994) Influence of endothelium on Mg2+-induced
     relaxation in noradrenaline-contracted aorta from DOCA-salt hypertensive rat. Eur.
     J. Pharmacol. 258(3), 167–172.
Laurant, P. and Touyz, R.M. (2000) Physiological and pathophysiological role of
     magnesium in the cardiovascular system: implications in hypertension. J.
     Hypertens. 18(9), 1177–1191.
Laurant, P., Kantelip, J.P. and Berthelot, A. (1995) Dietary magnesium supplementation
     modifies blood pressure and cardiovascular function in mineralocorticoid-salt
     hypertensive rats but not in normotensive rats. J. Nutr. 125, 830–841.
Laurant, P., Touyz, R.M. and Schiffrin, E.L. (1997) Effect of magnesium on vascular
     tone and reactivity in pressurized mesenteric arteries from spontaneously hyper-
     tensive rats. Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 5, 293–300.
Laurant, P., Hayoz, D., Brunner, H.R. and Berthelot, A. (1999) Effect of magnesium
     deficiency on blood pressure and mechanical properties of rat carotid artery.
     Hypertension 33, 1105–1110.
Lind, L., Lithell, H., Pollare, T. and Ljunghall, S. (1991) Blood pressure response during
     long-term treatment with magnesium is dependent on magnesium status. A double-
     blind, placebo-controlled study in essential hypertension and in subjects with high-
     normal blood pressure. Am. J. Hypertens. 4, 674–679.
Lucas, M.J., Leveno, K.J. and Cunningham, F.G. (1995) A comparison of magnesium
     sulfate with phenytoin for the prevention of eclampsia. N. Engl. J. Med. 333, 201–
     205.
Mahboob, T., Mumtaz, M. and Haleem, M.A. (1996) Electrolyte content of serum,
     erythrocyte, kidney and heart tissue in salt induced hypertensive rats. Life Sci. 5999,
     731–737.
Mason, B.A., Standley, C.A., Whitty, J.E. and Cotton, D.B. (1996) Fetal ionized
     magnesium levels parallel maternal levels during magnesium sulfate therapy for
     preeclampsia. Am. J. Obstet. Gynecol. 175(1), 213–217.
                                                         Magnesium and hypertension 75




Resnick, L.M., Laragh, J.H., Sealey, J.E. and Alderman, M.H. (1983) Divalent cations in
     essential hypertension. Relations between serum ionized calcium, magnesium, and
     plasma renin activity. N. Engl. J. Med. 309(15), 888–891.
Resnick, L.M., Militianu, D., Cunnings, A.J., Pipe, J.G., Evelhoch, J.L. and Soulen, R.L.
     (1997) Direct magnetic resonance determination of aortic distensibility in essential
     hypertension. Relation to age, abdominal visceral fat, and in situ intracellular free
     magnesium. Hypertension 30, 654–659.
Rosenlund, M., Berglind, N., Hallqvist, J., Bellander, T. and Bluhm, G. (2005) Daily
     intake of magnesium and calcium from drinking water in relation to myocardial
     infarction. Epidemiology 16(4), 570–576.
Saito, N., Abbu, G.C., Konishi, Y., Nishiyama, S. and Okada, T. (1995) Magnesium,
     calcium and trace elements in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Clin. Exp.
     Pharmacol. Physiol. 1, S212–S214.
Sanders, R., Konijnenberg, A., Huijgen, H.J., Wolf, H., Boer, K. and Sanders, G.T.B.
     (1998) Intracellular and extracellular ionized and total magnesium in pre-eclampsia
     and uncomplicated pregnancy. Clin. Chem. Lab. Med. 37, 55–59.
Sasaki, S., Oshima, T., Matsuura, H., Ozono, R., Higashi, Y., Sasaki, N., Matsumoto, T.,
     Nakano, Y., Ueda, A., Yoshimizu, A., Kurisu, S., Kambe, M. and Kajiyama, G.
     (2000) Abnormal magnesium status in patients with cardiovascular diseases. Clin.
     Sci. 98, 175–181.
Seydoux, J., Girardin, E., Paunier, L. and Beguin, F. (1992) Serum and intracellular
     magnesium during normal pregnancy and in patients with preeclampsia. Br. J.
     Obstet. Gynecol. 99, 207–211.
Simons-Morton, D.G., Hunsberger, S.A., Van Horn, L., Barton, B.A., Robson, A.M.,
     McMahon, R.P., Muhonen, L.E., Kwiterovich, P.O., Lasser, N.L., Kimm, S.Y.S.
     and Greenlick, M.R. (1997) Nutrient intake and blood pressure in the Dietary
     Intervention Study in children. Hypertension 29, 930–936.
Stergiou, G.S., Salgami, E.V., World Health Organization–International Society of
     Hypertension (WHO-ISH), USA Joint National Committee on Prevention,
     Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC-7) and
     European Society of Hypertension–European Society of Cardiology (ESH-ESC)
     (2004) New European, American and international guidelines for hypertension
     management: agreement and disagreement. Expert Rev. Cardiovasc. Ther. 2(3),
     359–368.
The Eclampsia Collaborative Group (1995) Which anticonvulsant for women with
     eclampsia? Evidence from the Collaborative Trial. Lancet 345, 1455–1463.
Touyz, R.M. and Milne, F.J. (1999) Magnesium supplementation attenuates, but does not
     prevent, the development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Am. J.
     Hypertens. 12, 757–765.
Touyz, R.M. and Yao, G. (2003) Modulation of vascular smooth muscle cell growth by
     magnesium — role of mitogen-activated protein kinases. J. Cell Physiol. 197(3),
     326–335.
Touyz, R.M., Panz, V. and Milne, F.J. (1995) Relations between magnesium, calcium
     and plasma renin activity in black and white hypertensive patients. Miner.
     Electrolyte Metab. 21(6), 417–423.
Touyz, R.M., Pu, Q., He, G., Chen, X., Yao, G., Neves, M.F. and Viel, E. (2002) Effects
     of low dietary magnesium intake on development of hypertension in stroke-prone
76 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




    spontaneously hypertensive rats: role of reactive oxygen species. J. Hypertens.
    20(11), 2221–2232.
Townsend, M.S., Fulgoni, V.L., 3rd, Stern, J.S., Adu-Afarwuah, S. and McCarron, D.A.
    (2005) Low mineral intake is associated with high systolic blood pressure in the
    Third and Fourth National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys: could we all
    be right? Am. J. Hypertens. 18(2 Pt. 1), 261–269.
Ueshima, K. (2005) Magnesium and ischemic heart disease: a review of epidemiological,
    experimental, and clinical evidences. Magnes. Res. 18(4), 275–284.
Van Leer, E.M., Seidell, J.C. and Kromhout, D. (1995) Dietary calcium, potassium,
    magnesium and blood pressure in the Netherlands. Int. J. Epidemiol. 24, 1117–1123.
Wells, I.C. and Agrawal, D.K. (1992) Abnormal magnesium metabolism in two rat
    models of genetic hypertension. Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 70, 1225–1229.
Whang, R., Chrysant, S., Dillard, B., Smith, W. and Fryer, A. (1982) Hypomagnesemia
    and hypokalemia in 1,000 treated ambulatory hypertensive patients. J. Am. Coll.
    Nutr. 1(4), 317–322.
Whelton, P.K. and Klag, M.J. (1989) Magnesium and blood pressure: review of the
    epidemiologic and clinical trial experience. Am. J. Cardiol. 63, 26G–30G.
Widman, L., Wester, P.O., Stegmayr, B.K. and Wirell, M. (1993) The dose-dependent
    reduction in blood pressure through administration of magnesium. A double blind
    placebo controlled cross-over study. Am. J. Hypertens. 6, 41–45.
Yamamoto, M.E., Applegate, W.B., Klag, M.J., Borhani, N.O., Cohen, J.D., Kirchner,
    K.A., Lakatos, E., Sacks, F.M., Taylor, J.O. and Hennekens, C.H. (1995) Lack of
    blood pressure effect with calcium and magnesium supplementation in adults with
    high-normal blood pressure. Results from phase 1 of the Trials of Hypertension
    Prevention (TOHP). Ann. Epidemiol. 5(2), 96–107.
Yang, C.Y. and Chiu, H.F. (1999) Calcium and magnesium in drinking water and the risk
    of death from hypertension. Am. J. Hypertens. 12, 894–899.
Yoshimura, M., Oshima, T., Matsuura, H., Ishida, T., Kambe, M. and Kajiyama, G.
    (1997) Extracellular Mg2+ inhibits capacitance Ca2+ entry in vascular smooth muscle
    cells. Circulation 95(11), 2567–2572.
7


Atherosclerosis
and magnesium
B.M. Altura and B.T. Altura




7.1 MAGNESIUM AND ATHEROGENESIS
Several studies have demonstrated in animal models that magnesium deficiency
accelerates components of the atherogenic process (Altura et al. 1990;
Rayssiguier et al. 1993; Maier et al. 2004). The nuclear factor-Kappa B (NF-
B) pathway is one of the signalling pathways turned on in atherogenesis in
response to proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. tumour necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-
], interleukin-1 [IL-1] and IL-18), as well as activation of Toll-like receptors
(Tedqui and Mallat 2006). Activation of the NF-KB pathway is a dominant
player in the inflammatory process found in atherogenesis via its regulation of
proinflammatory cytokines, adhesion molecules, chemokines, growth factors
and inducible enzymes, such as cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric
oxide synthase (iNOS) (De Martin et al. 2000). Once activated and translocated
to the nucleus, binding to kB enhancer elements takes place on specific genes,
and transcription will be promoted. Studies have demonstrated that NF-KB is
activated in peripheral and cerebral vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cells
78 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




exposed to lower than normal Mg2+ concentrations (Altura et al. 2003a,b; Altura
and Altura 2007) and is associated with increased levels of several transcription
factors, including c-Fos and c-Jun (Altura et al. 2003a,b; Altura and Altura
2007), needed for VSM cell differentiation, growth and transformation, as seen
in the atherosclerotic process (for review, see Tedqui and Mallat 2006).
    Diverse bioactive lipids have been observed and identified in the athero-
sclerotic plaque, including the inflammatory mediator platelet-activating factor
(PAF), PAF-like lipids, oxidized phospholipids, lysophosphatidylcholine and
several sphingolipids (Tedqui and Mallat 2006). Morrill et al. (1997, 1998)
showed that exposure of peripheral and cerebral VSM cells to lowered levels of
Mg2+ results in production of PAF-like lipids, a breakdown of membrane neutral
sphingomyelinase (SMase) and release of a number of bioactive sphingolipids,
including several ceramides. SMase and several sphingolipids, including phys-
iologically derived ceramides, when tested in the intact cerebral and intestinal
microvasculatures in vivo, result in vasospasm concomitant with endothelial
sticking of white blood cells followed by rupture and emigration of these
elements into the extravascular spaces (Altura et al. 2002). Such in situ evidence
is suggestive of a role for sphingolipids in the developing atherogenic process.
    It has been shown that both endothelial cells and VSM cells, when exposed
to low levels of Mg2+, can result in rapid formation of malondialdehyde and
reactive oxygen species (ROS) (Dickens et al. 1992; Weglicki et al. 1992;
Morrill et al. 1997, 1998; Rock et al. 1998; Yang et al. 2000; Altura et al.
2003a,b). Recently, it was demonstrated that when peripheral and cerebral VSM
cells are exposed to hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radical (·OH) and peroxy-
nitrite, they will undergo apoptosis (6–24 h) in a concentration-dependent
manner (J. Li et al. 2003a,b, 2004a,b; W. Li et al. 2004), and low-magnesium
environments were observed to potentiate these apoptotic processes (Li et al.
2007). It is thought that defects in the clearance of apoptotic cells can promote
and perpetuate proinflammatory factors and, thus, the atherogenic process (for
review, see Tedqui and Mallat 2006).


7.2 VASCULAR SPASM AND ISCHAEMIC HEART
    DISEASE
Arterial vasospasm may be a major factor leading to cardiovascular disorders,
and a number of mechanisms have been proposed for localized coronary
vasospasm. These include 1) passive and active influences on vessel calibre, e.g.
changes in VSM cell tone; 2) endothelial-dependent mechanisms (e.g. mechan-
ical injury of endothelial cells and/or loss of endogenous vasodilator substances
such as nitric oxide); 3) non-endothelial mechanisms (e.g. increased sympathetic
                                                   Atherosclerosis and magnesium 79




activity; release of vasoactive substances such as histamine, angiotensin II;
hypersensitivity of coronary VSM resulting in spontaneous phasic contractile
activity); and 4) alterations in divalent cation metabolism (see below).
   Certain drugs, such as digitalis and other cardiac glycosides, and many
diuretics, which are commonly used to treat ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and
hypertension, result in wasting of K+ and Mg2+ (Duarte 1968; Ryan et al. 1980;
Cohen and Kitzes 1983; Mountokakis 1983; Cohen et al. 1984; French et al.
1984; Altura and Altura 1985; Li et al. 2007). Many of the IHD patients treated
with these drugs become susceptible to cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death,
probably attributed to the tissue and cellular deficits in K+ and Mg2+. A large
body of clinical and experimental evidence indicates that irrespective of the
myocardial syndrome (IHD, sudden death IHD, myocardial infarction, unstable
angina, ventricular fibrillation), all are associated with myocardial and coronary
arterial losses of K+ and Mg2+ and gains of Na+ and Ca2+ (for reviews, see Iseri
et al. 1952; Dyckner and Wester 1981; Altura and Altura 1982, 1984, 1985;
Mountokakis 1983; Cohen et al. 1984). Experimental evidence suggests that
Mg2+ may be the first cation to be lost in the myocardium and coronary arterial
VSM cells in a hypoxically induced injury to the heart (Iseri et al. 1952;
Dyckner and Wester 1981; Altura and Altura 1982, 1984, 1985).
   Using perfused working rat hearts and 31P-nuclear magnetic resonance
spectroscopy, Altura et al. (1993) showed that low extracellular Mg2+ levels,
similar in concentration to those found in patient sera with IHD, resulted in
deficits in intracellular Mg2+, reduction in coronary blood flow, reduction in
cardiac output, lowered myocardial cell ATP and lowered levels of creatine
phosphate. Such events seem to lead to ROS (Freedman et al. 1990; Weglicki et
al. 2001) and ferrylmyoglobin, an additional tissue-damaging ROS (Wu et al.
1994).
   Can evidence be found, clinically, to implicate low serum or tissue levels of
Mg2+ in the diseases discussed above? Using Mg2+ ion-selective electrodes,
researchers have shown that patients with congestive heart failure, IHD, strokes,
type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, renal transplants and end-stage renal
disease all exhibit lowered levels of ionized magnesium in sera and red blood
cells (B.T. Altura and Altura 1991, 1994, 1997; Markell et al. 1993a,b; Altura
and Lewenstam 1994; Altura et al. 1994; B.M. Altura and Altura 1995).


7.3 CONCLUSIONS
Until relatively recently, it was not believed that magnesium played any role in
maintaining normal cardiovascular functions and dynamics. However, this was
due to a number of factors: poorly designed experiments; an absence of
80 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




methodology needed to measure, precisely, the free ionized magnesium rather
than total magnesium in tissues, cells, organs and body fluids; and a poor
appreciation of the progressive shortfalls in magnesium dietary intake (in
foodstuffs, beverages and water) since the turn of the past century.
   This minireview serves to fill in several of these gaps in knowledge and
provides a scientific-medical basis for a link between magnesium deficiency,
atherogenesis and cardiovascular diseases. The experimental and clinical studies
reviewed above lead us to believe that in order to prevent or ameliorate
vascular- and cardiac-related disorders, our diets and/or drinking-water (and
beverages) should be supplemented with magnesium. For the diets, the available
data suggest that the total magnesium intake must be at least 450–500 mg/day,
and drinking-water should contain a minimum of 25–50 mg/l (at present, in the
United States, many of our potable water sources contain <10 mg/l). At the turn
of the past century, we were ingesting, in the United States, about 450–500 mg
of magnesium per day; at present, we are ingesting about 175–248 mg/day —
thus, a considerable shortfall. Corrections of these deficits should perforce lead
to healthier bodies, less cardiovascular diseases and longer lifespans.


7.4 REFERENCES
Altura, B.M. and Altura, B.T. (1982) Mg, Na and K interactions and coronary heart
     diseases. Magnesium 1, 241–265.
Altura, B.M. and Altura, B.T. (1984) Magnesium, electrolyte transport and coronary
     vascular tone. Drugs 28(Suppl. 1), 120–142.
Altura, B.M. and Altura, B.T. (1985) New perspectives on the role of magnesium in the
     pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system. I. Clinical aspects. Magnesium 4,
     226–244.
Altura, B.M. and Altura, B.T. (1995) Magnesium in cardiovascular biology. Sci. Am. Sci.
     Med. 2, 28–37.
Altura, B.M. and Altura, B.T. (2007) Magnesium: forgotten mineral in cardiovascular
     biology and atherogenesis. In New Perspectives in Magnesium Research: Nutrition
     and Health (ed. Y. Nishizawa, H. Morii and J. Durlach), chap. 19, Springer, New
     York, pp. 239–262.
Altura, B.M. and Lewenstam, A. (eds) (1994) Unique magnesium-sensitive ion selective
     electrodes. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. 54(Suppl. 217), 1–100.
Altura, B.M., Barbour, R.L., Dowd, T.L., Wu, F., Altura, B.T. and Gupta, R.K. (1993)
     Low extracellular magnesium induces intracellular free Mg deficits, ischemia,
     depletion of high energy phosphates and cardiac failure in intact working hearts: A
     31
        P-NMR study. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1182, 328–332.
Altura, B.M., Gebrewold, A., Zheng, T. and Altura, B.T. (2002) Sphingomyelinase and
     ceramide analogs induce vasoconstriction and leukocyte–endothelial interactions in
     cerebral venules in the intact rat brain. Possible relation to brain injury and stroke.
     Brain Res. Bull. 58, 271–278.
Altura, B.M., Gebrewold, A., Zhang, A. and Altura, B.T. (2003a) Low extracellular
     magnesium ions induce lipid peroxidation and activation of nuclear factor-Kappa B
                                                        Atherosclerosis and magnesium 81




      in canine cerebral vascular smooth muscle: possible relation to traumatic injury and
      strokes. Neurosci. Lett. 341, 189–192.
Altura, B.M., Kostellow, A.B., Zhang, A., Li, W., Morrill, A., Gupta, R.K. and Altura,
      B.T. (2003b) Expression of the nuclear factor-KB and proto-oncogenes c-fos and c-
      jun are induced by low extracellular Mg2+ in aortic and cerebral vascular smooth
      muscle cells: possible links to hypertension, atherogenesis and stroke. Am. J.
      Hypertens. 16, 701–707.
Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (1991) Measurement of ionized magnesium in whole
      blood, plasma and serum with a new ion-selective electrode in healthy and diseased
      human subjects. Magnes. Trace Elem. 10, 90–98.
Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (1994) A method for distinguishing ionized, complexed
      and protein-bound Mg in normal and diseased subjects. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest.
      54(Suppl. 217), 83–87.
Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (1997) Vascular diseases and ionized magnesium. In
      Magnesium: Current Status and New Developments — Theoretical, Biological and
      Medical Aspects (ed. T. Theophanides and T. Anastassopoulou), pp. 385–396,
      Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.
Altura, B.T., Brust, M., Barbour, R.L., Bloom, S., Stempak, J. and Altura, B.M. (1990)
      Magnesium dietary intake modulates blood lipid levels and atherogenesis. Proc.
      Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 187, 1840–1844.
Altura, B.T., Bertschat, F., Jeremias, A., Ising, H. and Altura, B.M. (1994) Comparative
      findings on serum IMg2+ of normal and diseased subjects with the NOVA and
      KONE ISEs for Mg2+. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. 54(Suppl. 217), 77–82.
Cohen, L. and Kitzes, R. (1983) Magnesium sulfate and digitalis. Toxic arrhythmias. J.
      Am. Med. Assoc. 249, 2808–2810.
Cohen, L., Laor, A. and Kitzes, R. (1984) Prolonged Q–Tc interval and decreased
      lymphocyte magnesium in congestive heart failure. Magnesium 7, 164–168.
De Martin, R., Hoeth, M., Hofer-Warbinek, R. and Schmid, J.A. (2000) The transcription
      factor NF-KB and the regulation of vascular cell function. Arterioscler. Thromb.
      Vasc. Biol. 20, E83–E88.
Dickens, B.F., Weglicki, W.B., Li, S. and Mak, I.J. (1992) Magnesium deficiency in
      vitro enhances free-radical intracellular oxidation and cytotoxicity in endothelial
      cells. FEBS Lett. 311, 187–191.
Duarte, C.G. (1968) Effects of ethacrynic acid and furosemide on urinary calcium
      phosphate and magnesium. Metabolism 17, 867–876.
Dyckner, T. and Wester, P.O. (1981) Relation between potassium, magnesium and
      cardiac arrhythmias. Acta Med. Scand. Suppl. 647, 163–169.
Freedman, A.M., Atrakchi, A.H., Cassidy, M.M. and Weglicki, W.B. (1990) Magnesium
      deficiency-induced cardiomyopathy: protection by vitamin E. Biochem. Biophys.
      Res. Commun. 170, 1102–1106.
French, J.H., Thomas, R.G., Siskind, A.P., Brodsky, M. and Iseri, L.T. (1984)
      Magnesium therapy in massive digoxin intoxication. Ann. Emerg. Med. 13, 562–
      566.
Iseri, L.T., Alexander, L.C., MacLaughey, R.S., Boyle, A.J. and Meyers, G. (1952)
      Water and electrolyte content of cardiac and skeletal muscle in heart failure and
      myocardial infarction. Am. Heart J. 43, 215–227.
82 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Li, J., Su, J., Li, W., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2003a) Peroxynitrite induces
      apoptosis in canine cerebral vascular muscle cells: possible relation to neuro-
      degenerative diseases and strokes. Neurosci. Lett. 350, 173–177.
Li, J., Su, J., Li, W., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2003b) Hydrogen peroxide induces
      apoptosis in cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells: Possible relation to neuro-
      degenerative diseases and strokes. Brain Res. Bull. 63, 101–106.
Li, J., Li, W., Su, J., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2004a) Peroxynitrite induces
      apoptosis in rat aortic smooth muscle cells: possible relation to vascular disease.
      Exp. Biol. Med. 239, 264–269.
Li, J., Li, W., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2004b) Mechanisms of hydroxyl radical
      induced contraction of rat aorta. Eur. J. Pharmacol. 499, 171–178.
Li, J., Li, W., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2007) Peroxynitrite induces apoptosis and
      decline in intracellular free Mg with concomitant elevation in [Ca2+]I in rat aortic
      smooth muscle cells. Drug Metab. Lett. (in press).
Li, W., Li, J., Liu, W., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2004) Alcohol-induced apoptosis
      of canine cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells: Role of extracellular and
      intracellular calcium ions. Neurosci. Lett. 354, 221–224.
Maier, J.A.M., Malpuech-Brugere, C., Zimowska, W., Rayssiguier, Y. and Mazur, A.
      (2004) Low magnesium promotes endothelial cell dysfunction: implications for
      atherosclerosis, inflammation and thrombosis. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1689, 13–21.
Markell, M.S., Altura, B.T., Barbour, R.L. and Altura, B.M. (1993a) Ionized and total
      magnesium levels in cyclosporine-treated renal transplant recipients. Clin. Sci. 85,
      325–328.
Markell, M.S., Altura, B.T., Sarn, Y., Delano, B.G., Ifudo, O., Friedman, E.A. and
      Altura, B.M. (1993b) Deficiency of serum ionized magnesium in patients receiving
      hemo-dialysis or peritoneal dialysis. ASAIO J. 39, M801–M804.
Morrill, G.A., Gupta, R.K., Kostellow, A.B., Zhang, A., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M.
      (1997) Mg2+ modulates membrane lipids in vascular smooth muscle: a link to
      atherogenesis. FEBS Lett. 408, 191–194.
Morrill, G.A., Gupta, R.K., Kostellow, A.B., Zhang, A., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M.
      (1998) Mg2+ modulates membrane sphingolipids and lipid second messenger levels
      in vascular smooth muscle cells. FEBS Lett. 440, 167–171.
Mountokakis, T.D. (1983) Diuretic-induced magnesium deficiency. Magnesium 2, 57–
      62.
Rayssiguier, Y., Gueux, E., Bussiere, L., Durlach, J. and Mazur, A. (1993) Dietary
      magnesium affects susceptibility of lipoproteins and tissues to peroxidation in rats.
      J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 12, 133–137.
Rock, E., Astier, C., Vignon, Y., Gueux, E., Matta, C. and Rayssiguier, Y. (1998) Dietary
      magnesium deficiency in rats enhances free radical production in skeletal muscle. J.
      Nutr. 125, 1205–1210.
Ryan, M.P., Ryan, M.F. and Counihan, T. (1980) The effect of diuretics on lymphocyte
      magnesium and potassium. Acta Med. Scand. Suppl. 647, 153–161.
Tedqui, A. and Mallat, Z. (2006) Cytokines in atherosclerosis: pathogenic and regulatory
      pathways. Physiol. Rev. 86, 515–582.
Weglicki, W.B., Phillips, T.M., Freedman, A.M., Cassidy, M.M. and Dickens, B.F.
      (1992) Magnesium-deficiency elevates circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines
      and endothelin. Mol. Cell. Biochem. 118, 105–111.
Weglicki, W.B., Kramer, J.H., Mak, I.T., Dickens, B.F. and Komarov, A.M. (2001) Pro-
      oxidized and pro-inflammatory neuropeptides in magnesium deficiency. In
                                                     Atherosclerosis and magnesium 83




    Advances in Magnesium Research: Nutrition and Health (ed. Y. Rayssiguier, A.
    Mazur and J. Durlach), pp. 285–289, John Libbey, London.
Wu, F., Altura, B.T., Gao, J., Barbour, R.L. and Altura, B.M. (1994) Ferrylmyoglobin
    formation induced by acute magnesium deficiency in perfused rat hearts causes
    cardiac failure. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1225, 158–164.
Yang, Z.W., Gebrewold, A., Nowakowski, M., Altura, B.T. and Altura, B.M. (2000)
    Mg2+-induced endothelial-dependent relaxation of blood vessels and blood pressure
    lowering: role of NO. Am. J. Physiol. Regul. Integr. Comp. Physiol. 278, R628–
    R639.
8


Health signiﬁcance of calcium
and magnesium: Examples
from human studies
G.F. Combs, Jr and F.H. Nielsen




8.1 ROLES OF CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM IN
    NUTRITION AND HEALTH
Calcium and magnesium play important roles in bone structure, muscle
contraction, nerve impulse transmission, blood clotting and cell signalling.
Some 99% of body calcium is in the bone, which is 40% calcium. That this pool
is regulated at apparently lower priority than cellular calcium pools results in
impairments in bone mineralization as the main features of calcium deficiency.
Accordingly, calcium-deficient children show rickets, the condition of under-
mineralized bone resulting in structural deformities of growing bones, while
bone undermineralization in adults is involved in osteoporosis with associated
                                       Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 85




increases in fracture risk. Magnesium deficiency affects neurological and
neuromuscular function, resulting in anorexia, muscular weakness, lethargy and
unsteady gait. These clinical signs are not common but have been reported in
cases with low magnesium intakes coupled with excessive magnesium losses
due to prolonged diarrhoea.
    It is clear that the calcium intakes of many people do not meet their calcium
needs. This is the case for most children and all adults in developing countries
and for most adults in industrialized ones. The widespread nature of calcium
undernutrition almost certainly contributes to the emergence of rickets in the
developing world and to prevalent osteoporosis (best characterized in developed
countries) in many countries. In recent years, rickets has been reported in at
least 21 countries (Pettifor et al. 1978; Okonofua et al. 1991; Oginni et al. 1996;
Banajeh et al. 1997; Muhe et al. 1997; Thacher et al. 1997, 1999, 2000; Kreiter
et al. 2000; Majid Molla et al. 2000; Fraser and Tserendolgor 2001; Harris et al.
2001; Karim et al. 2001). It is prevalent in south-eastern Bangladesh, where it
appears to affect some 4% of children. Fischer et al. (1999) found cases in this
area to show normal plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol levels, which suggests
that their rickets is of the calcium deficiency type.
    It is estimated that three quarters of United States residents also do not
consume Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) levels of magnesium, based
on dietary recommendations derived from a small number of metabolic balance
studies of non-deficient individuals. The lack of well controlled studies also has
made it difficult to establish an evidence-based recommended intake or
requirement for magnesium. The most recent recommendations of the Food and
Nutrition Board of the United States Institute of Medicine (IOM 1997) were
based on usual dietary intakes not associated with adverse effects and a poorly
controlled balance study (Lakshmanan et al. 1984). Accordingly, the Estimated
Average Requirements (EARs) and RDAs (IOM 1997) have been questioned.
The Scientific Committee for Food of the European Commission (SCF 1993)
had opted to set only an acceptable range (150–500 mg/day) of magnesium
intake for adults, and the FAO/WHO Expert Consultation (2002), finding no
evidence for magnesium deficiency in humans consuming less than United
States RDA levels, set the Recommended Nutrient Intake (RNI) for magnesium
arbitrarily (e.g. that for 19- to 65-year-old women at 220 mg/day). Hunt and
Johnson (2006) compiled magnesium balance data from some 20 controlled
feeding studies conducted at the Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research
Center; their analysis suggested that magnesium balance was achieved at
approximately the RNI level set by the FAO/WHO Expert Consultation (2002).
It is clear that very large numbers of people consume levels of magnesium and
calcium that are insufficient to support even the most conservative estimates of
their physiological needs.
86 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   The experiments described below were approved by the appropriate
institutional review boards: the calcium intervention trial in Bangladesh by the
Human Subjects Committees of Cornell University, Dhaka University and the
University of North Dakota1; and the controlled magnesium feeding studies by
the Human Subjects Committee of the University of North Dakota.1


8.2 CALCIUM INTERVENTION STUDY
In order to determine the role of calcium in endemic rickets in south-eastern
Bangladesh, Combs and Hassan (2005) conducted studies of the local food
system followed by a calcium intervention trial with high-risk susceptible
children living in a rickets-endemic area. These were done in Cox’s Bazaar
District, Bangladesh. Most families in affected communities consumed few, if
any, calcium-rich foods; consequently, their calcium intakes were very low
(Figure 8.1). In particular, the high-risk children consumed less than a quarter of
levels recommended in the United States (IOM 1997).

                              1200

                              1000
            Calcium intake,
            mg/person/day




                               800

                               600

                               400

                               200

                                 0
                                     <5 years       12-18 years   pregnant/lactating   men
                                                                       women


                                 Estimated intake      Recommended level (RDA)




Figure 8.1. Estimated calcium intakes in a rickets-endemic area, Cox’s Bazaar District,
Bangladesh.

   On the basis of that finding, Combs et al. (2005) conducted a 13-month-long,
double-blind, clinical trial with 1- to 5-year-old children randomized to several
treatments consisting of a milk powder–based dietary supplement given daily, 6
days per week. These included treatments providing 50, 250 or 500 mg of
calcium per day, with physical, radiographic and biochemical indicators of bone

1
    Contractor to the Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center.
                                      Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 87




health being the primary end-points. Combs et al. (2005) screened a total of
1749 1- to 5-year-old children, some 13% of whom, over the 7 months before
the start of the intervention, had developed physical signs of rickets. A total of
119 children remaining asymptomatic after that were randomized to the
treatments and followed for 13 months. After that period, none showed rachitic
leg signs or radiological evidence of active rickets, and all showed carpal
ossification normal for age after that intervention, suggesting that even the
lowest supplement of calcium (50 mg/day) was useful in supporting normal
bone development in this high-risk population.


8.3 MAGNESIUM FEEDING STUDIES
A series of controlled feeding studies was conducted to describe the quantitative
need for magnesium and determine whether simple nutritional magnesium
deficiency may affect cardiovascular and/or bone health (Hunt et al. 1997;
Nielsen 2004; Nielsen et al. 2007a,b). These studies involved female
postmenopausal volunteer subjects who resided in the metabolic unit of the
Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center. Medical, psychological and
nutritional evaluations showed that all subjects were in good health. Each
experiment was conducted for about 6 months, during which time subjects
consumed weighed amounts of all foods and beverages, provided in a 3-day
rotating menu composed of foods found often in a developed country–type diet
that were low in magnesium. Generally, the diets provided about 10% of their
energy as protein, 54–58% as carbohydrate and 35–36% as fat. Supplements
were used to ensure adequacy of nutrients present in low or in unknown
quantities in the diet. Energy intakes were adjusted in 840-kJ increments to
maintain body weight within 2% of admission weight. The diets were
formulated to provide 600–800 mg of calcium and about 150 mg of magnesium
per day. While other elements were included as variables in these studies, each
study followed a depletion–repletion design with respect to magnesium, using a
low-magnesium diet containing about 110 mg of magnesium per day to effect
magnesium deprivation and a magnesium gluconate supplement (200 mg of
magnesium per day) to effect magnesium repletion. Each study used a small
number of subjects (postmenopausal women) randomized to the low-
magnesium diet or supplemented diet for an initial period, followed by
assignment to the other diet during a subsequent period according to a Latin-
square design.
   Diet samples, total urine and faeces were collected daily and analysed for
magnesium, calcium and phosphorus by inductively coupled argon plasma
emission spectroscopy after dilution (urine) or nitric–perchloric acid digestion
88 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




(diets, faeces). Magnesium balance was calculated as the difference between
dietary intake and faecal plus urinary excretion.

8.3.1 Magnesium experiment 1
Eleven subjects were equilibrated to an intake of approximately 310 mg of
magnesium per day using supplemental magnesium gluconate. They were then
randomized into groups receiving low magnesium (109 mg/day) with or without
supplemental magnesium (200 mg/day) and with or without an aluminium
supplement (1000 mg/day) in 24-day treatment periods. Measured during the
final 12 days of each treatment period, magnesium balance was positive during
magnesium deprivation and increased (67 mg/day) during magnesium replenish-
ment (Table 8.1). The change in magnesium status was associated with an
increase in calcium balance from 21 to 145 mg/day during periods of mag-
nesium deprivation — an unexpected finding, as magnesium deprivation has
been shown to impair bone formation in experimental animals (Hunt et al.
1997). In fact, magnesium deficiency depressed serum parathyroid hormone and
1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, the biologically active form of vitamin D3, in
rats (Rude et al. 2005); reductions in these hormones are associated with
impaired calcium conservation by the kidney and/or intestine.
Table 8.1. Magnesium and calcium balance dataa from a modified Latin-square-designed
experiment with deficient and adequate dietary magnesium and boron as well as
aluminium supplementation as variables (Magnesium experiment 1)
                                                  Balance data (mg/day)
  Variable                             Basal diet        Magnesium-supplemented diet
  Magnesium balance
  Dietary magnesium                    109 ± 15                      340 ± 19
  Faecal magnesium                      32 ± 13                      150 ± 51
  Urinary magnesium                     70 ± 12                      123 ± 33
  Magnesium balance                        +7                          +67
  Calcium balance
  Dietary calcium                      580 ± 53                      616 ± 69
  Faecal calcium                       314 ± 127                    430 ± 148
  Urinary calcium                      121 ± 49                     165 ± 108
  Calcium balance                        +145                          +21
a
   Data from Hunt et al. (1997); analyses of samples obtained the last 12 days of each 24-
   day magnesium deprivation/supplementation treatment period.
                                      Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 89




8.3.2 Magnesium experiment 2
Thirteen subjects were equilibrated for 21 days to a diet that provided about 318
mg of magnesium per day prior to randomization to the low-magnesium (118
mg/day) diet with or without supplemental magnesium gluconate (200 mg of
magnesium per day) and with or without a boron supplement (3 mg/day) in 42-
day treatment periods. Magnesium balance during the last 12 days of each
period was positive during magnesium supplementation but negative during
magnesium restriction, an effect apparently moderated by reduced urinary
magnesium excretion (Table 8.2). Magnesium deprivation decreased urinary
calcium excretion, although calcium balance appeared to increase in periods of
low dietary magnesium (Table 8.3) (Nielsen 2004).
Table 8.2. Effect of magnesium depletion and repletion on magnesium and calcium
balancea (Magnesium experiment 2; from Nielsen 2004)

                              Balance data (mg/day)
                                             Magnesium
                        Low magnesium       supplemented                Magnesium
                         Low     High      Low      High      Pooled     effect P
  Variable              boron   boron     boron     boron      SD         value
  Magnesium balanceb
  Dietary magnesium           116      119       321      317
  Faecal magnesium             60       51       177      170        25 0.0001
  Urinary magnesium            74       74       141      137         8 0.0001
  Magnesium balance           18       6        +3      +10        21 0.003
  Calcium balanceb
  Dietary calcium             695      708       715      702
  Faecal calcium              524      518       532      520        70  0.84
  Urinary calcium             161      165       180      180        15 0.0003
  Calcium balance             +10      +25        +4       +3        63  0.45
a
   Based on analyses of samples obtained the last 24 days of each 42-day dietary
   treatment period.
b
   Data based on all 42 days of each treatment period; magnesium deprivation
   significantly increased calcium balance (33 vs 10 mg/day; P < 0.04).


8.3.3 Magnesium experiment 3
Further experiments were conducted to determine the response of postmeno-
pausal women to magnesium. Eleven women were equilibrated to a diet pro-
viding 307 mg of magnesium per day using supplemental magnesium (220
mg/day) before being randomized to the low-magnesium diet (107 mg/day) or
the diet supplemented with 220 mg magnesium per day for 72 days, after which
90 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




each group was assigned to the opposite treatment for a second 72-day period.
Balance determinations were made during the last 36 days of each treatment
period. Results showed that magnesium balance was negative (5 mg/day) when
the low-magnesium diet was fed and positive (+54 mg/day) when supplemental
magnesium was given; calcium balance was greater during the period of
magnesium deprivation (+33 mg/day) than it was during the period of mag-
nesium supplementation (1 mg/day). Magnesium deprivation also decreased
red blood cell membrane magnesium, a putative indicator of body magnesium
status (Table 8.4). One subject showed an increase in ventricular premature
discharges after 52 days of magnesium deprivation; she was given supplemental
magnesium, whereupon her heart rhythm returned to baseline within 14 days
(Nielsen et al. 2007a).
Table 8.3. Effect of magnesium deprivation and repletion on selected variables with or
without supplemental boron (Magnesium experiment 2; from Nielsen 2004)
                               Urine                           Serum
                         K,          P,      25-OH-D3,       1,25-OH-D3, Cholesterol,
  Dietary treatmenta   g/day       mg/day      nmol/l           pmol/l     mmol/l
  Low Mg / Low B       1.24         574          61.9            59.2       6.41
  Low Mg / High B      1.11         587         72.4             62.2       6.41
  High Mg / Low B      1.52         561          58.2            69.1       6.62
  High Mg / High B     1.32         547         56.7             61.4       6.59
  Pooled SD            0.29          34         14.2              8.2       0.21
                                         Analysis of variance P values
  Mg effect              0.002      0.01        0.01             0.06       0.02
  B effect                0.05      0.96        0.32             0.10       0.60
  Mg  B                  0.98      0.12        0.07             0.70       0.32
25-OH-D3, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol; 1,25-OH-D3, 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, the
biologically active form of vitamin D
a
   Low Mg = 118 mg/day; high Mg = 318 mg/day; low B = 0.25 mg/day; high B = 3.25
   mg/day.


8.3.4 Magnesium experiment 4
Thirteen postmenopausal women were fed a low-magnesium diet (101 mg/day)
for a targeted 93 days, after which they were to be given supplemental mag-
nesium (200 mg/day) for 42 days. However, heart rhythm changes detected in
several subjects prior to the completion of the planned magnesium depletion
period necessitated their being given supplemental magnesium (Nielsen et al.
2007b). This occurred at 42 days for one subject who also showed a rise in
blood pressure. Upon magnesium supplementation, her heart rhythm returned to
baseline and hypertension disappeared. Heart rhythm changes were detected for
two subjects at 52 days, for one at 64 days and for one at 78 days. In each case,
                                          Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 91




affected subjects were given supplemental magnesium, as were all unaffected
subjects at 78 days. In the case of each affected subject, heart rhythm changes,
particularly atrial flutter and fibrillation, which were observed in three subjects,
disappeared upon magnesium supplementation and did not reappear (Nielsen et
al. 2007b).
Table 8.4. Effect of magnesium depletion and repletion on magnesium and calcium
balance (Magnesium experiment 3; from Nielsen et al. 2007a)
                                           Dietary treatment
                                      Magnesium        Magnesium       Pooled
  Variable                             deprived       supplemented       SD       P value
  Magnesium balance dataa
  Dietary magnesium, mg/day               107               327
  Faecal magnesium, mg/day                 60               169           18      0.0001
  Urinary magnesium, mg/day                52               104           11      0.0001
  Magnesium balance, mg/day                5               +54           20      0.0001
  Calcium balance dataa
  Dietary calcium, mg/day                 762               767
  Faecal calcium, mg/day                  570               593           80        0.09
  Urinary calcium, mg/day                 160               175           13      0.0001
  Calcium balance, mg/day                 +33               1            75       0.009
  Other parameters
  Urinary potassium, g/day                1.58             1.64           63        0.04
  Urinary phosphorus, mg/day              787               769           49        0.03
  Serum 25-OH-D3, nmol/l                   84               84            4         0.96
  Red blood cell magnesium,a              2.51             2.67          0.02       0.05
  nmol/mg protein
25-OH-D3, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol
a
   Data based on samples collected the last 36 days of each 72-day dietary period.

   It is possible that some of these subjects may have entered the study in
marginal magnesium status, as might be expected based on the 2001–2002
findings of the United States National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
(NHANES) (Moshfegh et al. 2005). If so, then the negative balance shown
during the period of magnesium depletion (3 mg/day) would be expected to
exacerbate a mild magnesium deficiency. When the volunteers were supple-
mented with magnesium, magnesium balance exceeded 48 mg/day (Table 8.5).
In this study (Nielsen et al. 2007b), magnesium deprivation markedly increased
calcium balance (261 mg/day), a finding consistent with the results of the
previous experiments.
92 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Table 8.5. Effect of magnesium depletion and repletion on magnesium balance
(Magnesium experiment 4; from Nielsen et al. 2007b)
                                        Dietary treatment
                                    Magnesium       Magnesium       Pooled
  Variable                           deprived      supplemented      SD      P value
  Magnesium balance dataa
  Dietary magnesium, mg/day               108            319
  Faecal magnesium, mg/day                50             162          25     0.0001
  Urinary magnesium, mg/day               61             108           8     0.0001
  Magnesium balance, mg/day               3             +48          22     0.0001
  Calcium balance dataa
  Dietary calcium, mg/day                 690            657
  Faecal calcium, mg/day                  298            297         0.96      NS
  Urinary calcium, mg/day                 130            132         0.78      NS
  Calcium balance, mg/day                 261            228         0.04      0.05
  Other parameters
  Urinary potassium, g/day               1.13           1.25         0.08    0.002
  Serum cholesterol, mg/dl               6.10           6.67         0.28    0.0003
  Red blood cell magnesium,              3.00           3.25         0.17    0.005
  nmol/mg protein
  Red blood cell superoxide              2973           3387         438       0.03
  dismutase (U/mg haemoglobin)
NS, not significant
a
   Based on samples collected the last   36 days of magnesium depletion (78 days) and
   magnesium repletion (58 days).

   These studies suggest that marginal magnesium status, such as found in many
apparently healthy citizens in the United States, can increase calcium retention
and decrease potassium excretion, potentially affecting cardiac function.

8.3.5 Conclusions
These studies demonstrate the responses of different types of human subjects to
controlled supplementation with calcium and/or magnesium, both of which are
widely underconsumed relative to their physiological needs. For children at risk
of developing rickets, owing to their reliance on diets limited in calcium, modest
supplements of calcium appear to have significant health value. For apparently
healthy adults, metabolic balance studies suggest that intakes less than 100–150
mg of magnesium per day have the potential to adversely affect cardiac func-
tion.
   These human magnesium balance studies demonstrate the utility of the meta-
bolic balance approach for determining needs for dietary magnesium. Those
findings indicate that magnesium intakes in the range of 100–150 mg/day
                                           Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 93




induce mild to moderate deficits in that mineral, which are associated with
increased calcium retention. Should that response involve the accumulation of
calcium in soft tissues and increases in intracellular ionized calcium, then the
release of pro-inflammatory neuropeptides and enhancement of oxidative stress
would be expected (Kramer et al. 2003). Such marginal magnesium status may
be a factor in osteoporosis by the induction of bone resorption, which has been
demonstrated in the rat in response to increased circulating levels of the neuro-
peptides substance P and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (Rude et al. 2005).
Moderate magnesium deficiency is also known to increase the excretion of
potassium, a finding consistent with changes caused by increased intracellular
calcium and adversely affecting heart rhythm. Because many individuals con-
sume less than 150 mg of magnesium per day (Moshfegh et al. 2005), it is likely
that increasing the magnesium intakes of many individuals may benefit both
their bone health and their cardiac function.


8.4 REFERENCES
Banajeh, S.M., al-Sunbali, N.N. and al-Sanahani, S.H. (1997) Clinical characteristics and
     outcome of children aged under 5 years hospitalized with severe pneumonia in
     Yemen. Ann. Trop. Paediatr. 17, 321–326.
Combs, G.F., Jr and Hassan, N. (2005) The Chakaria Food System Study: Household-
     level, case–control study to identify risk factor for rickets in Bangladesh. Eur. J.
     Clin. Nutr. 59, 1291–1301.
Combs, G.F., Jr, Hassan, N., Hunt, C. and Watts, J. (2005) Apparent efficacy of food-
     based calcium supplementation in preventing rickets in Bangladesh. FASEB J. 19,
     A563.
FAO/WHO Expert Consultation (2002) Magnesium. In Human Vitamin and Mineral
     Requirements, pp. 223–233, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
     Nations, Rome, and World Health Organization, Geneva.
Fischer, P.R., Rahman, A., Cimma, J.P., Kyaw-Myint, T.O., Kabir, A.R.M.L., Talukder,
     K., Hassan, N., Manaster, B.J., Staab, D.B., Duxbury, J.M., Welch, R.M., Meisner,
     C.A., Haque, S. and Combs, G.F. (1999) Nutritional rickets without vitamin D
     deficiency in Bangladesh. J. Trop. Pediatr. 45, 291–293.
Fraser, D.R. and Tserendolgor, U. (2001) Rickets in northern Asia. In Proceedings of the
     International Symposium on Improving Health and Economic Development:
     Approaches to Preventing Diet-Related Rickets (ed. G.F. Combs, Jr), pp. 23–26,
     Cornell International Institute for Food, Agriculture and Development, Cornell
     University, Ithaca, NY.
Harris, N.S., Crawford, P.B., Yangzom, Y., Pinzo, L., Gyaltsen, P. and Hudes, M. (2001)
     Nutritional and health status of Tibetan children living at high altitudes. N. Engl. J.
     Med. 344, 341–347.
Hunt, C.D. and Johnson, L.K. (2006) Estimation of magnesium requirements in men and
     women by cross-sectional statistical analyses of metabolic magnesium balance data.
     FASEB J. 20, A182.
94 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Hunt, C.D., Herbel, J.L. and Nielsen, F.H. (1997) Metabolic responses of post-
     menopausal women to supplemental dietary boron and aluminum during usual and
     low magnesium intake: boron, calcium, and magnesium absorption and retention
     and blood mineral concentrations. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 65, 803–813.
IOM (1997) Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin
     D, and Fluoride. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation
     of Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309063507/
     html).
Karim, F., Chowdhury, A.M.R. and Gani, M.S. (2001) Rapid assessment of the
     endemicity of lower limb clinical rickets in Cox’s Bazaar District of Bangladesh. In
     Proceedings of the International Symposium on Improving Health and Economic
     Development: Approaches to Preventing Diet-Related Rickets (ed. G.F. Combs, Jr),
     pp. 44–54, Cornell International Institute for Food, Agriculture and Development,
     Cornell University, Ithaca, NY.
Kramer, J.H., Mak, I.T., Phillips, T.M. and Weglicki, W.B. (2003) Dietary magnesium
     intake influences circulating pro-inflammatory neuropeptide levels and loss of
     myocardial tolerance in postischemic stress. Exp. Biol. Med. 228, 665–673.
Kreiter, S.R., Schwartz, R.P., Kirkman, H.N., Jr, Charlton, P.A., Calikoglu, A.S. and
     Davenport, M.L. (2000) Nutritional rickets in African American breast-fed infants.
     J. Pediatr. 137, 153–157.
Lakshmanan, L.F., Rao, R.B., Kim, W.W. and Kelsay, J.L. (1984) Magnesium intakes,
     balances, and blood levels of adults consuming self-selected diets. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.
     40, 1380–1389.
Majid Molla, A., Badawi, M.H., al-Yaish, S., Sharma, P., el-Salam, R.S. and Molla,
     A.M. (2000) Risk factors for nutritional rickets among children in Kuwait. Pediatr.
     Int. 42, 280–284.
Moshfegh, A., Goldman, J. and Cleveland, L. (2005) What We Eat in America, NHANES
     2001–2002: Usual Nutrient Intakes from Food Compared to Dietary Reference
     Intakes. Agricultural Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture,
     Washington, DC, p. 24.
Muhe, L., Lulseged, S., Mason, K.E. and Simoes, E.A. (1997) Case–control study of the
     role of nutritional rickets in the risk of developing pneumonia in Ethiopian children.
     Lancet 349, 1801–1804.
Nielsen, F.H. (2004) The alteration of magnesium, calcium and phosphorus metabolism
     by dietary magnesium deprivation in postmenopausal women is not affected by
     dietary boron deprivation. Magnes. Res. 17, 197–210.
Nielsen, F.H., Milne, D.B., Gallagher, S., Johnson, L. and Hoverson, B. (2007a)
     Magnesium deprivation results in calcium retention in postmenopausal women.
     Magnes. Res. (in press).
Nielsen, F.H., Milne, D.B., Klevay, L.M., Gallagher, S. and Johnson, L. (2007b) Dietary
     magnesium deficiency induces heart rhythm changes, impairs glucose tolerance, and
     decreases serum cholesterol in post-menopausal women. J. Am. Coll. Nutr. (in
     press).
Oginni, L.M., Worsfold, M., Oyelami, O.A., Sharp, C.A., Powell, D.E. and Davie,
     M.W.J. (1996) Etiology of rickets in Nigerian children. J. Pediatr. 128, 692–694.
Okonofua, F., Gill, D.S., Alabi, Z.O., Thomas, M., Bell, J.L. and Dandona, P. (1991)
     Rickets in Nigerian children: a consequence of calcium malnutrition. Metabolism
     40, 209–213.
                                           Health signiﬁcance of calcium and magnesium 95




Pettifor, J.M., Ross, P., Wang, J., Moodley, G. and Couper-Smith, J. (1978) Rickets in
      children of rural origin in South Africa: Is low dietary calcium a factor? Pediatrics
      92, 320–324.
Rude, F.H., Gruber, H.E., Norton, H.J., Wei, L.Y., Frausto, A. and Kilburn, J. (2005)
      Dietary magnesium reduction to 25% of nutrient requirement disrupts bone and
      mineral metabolism in the rat. Bone 37, 211–219.
SCF (1993) Nutrient and Energy Intakes for the European Community (Opinion
      Expressed on 11 December 1992). Reports of the Scientific Committee for Food
      (Thirty-first series), pp. 1–248, Office for Official Publications of the European
      Communities, Luxembourg (http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/scf/out89.pdf).
Thacher, T.D., Ighogboja, S.I. and Fischer, P.R. (1997) Rickets without vitamin D
      deficiency in Nigerian children. Ambulatory Child Health 3, 56–64.
Thacher, T.D., Fischer, P.R., Pettifor, J.M., Lawson, J.O., Isichei, C.O., Reading, J.C.
      and Chan, G.M. (1999) A comparison of calcium, vitamin D, or both for nutritional
      rickets in Nigerian children. N. Engl. J. Med. 341, 563–568.
Thacher, T.D., Fischer, P.R., Pettifor, J.M., Lawson, J.O., Manaster, B.J. and Reading,
      J.C. (2000) Radiographic scoring method for the assessment of the severity of
      nutritional rickets. J. Trop. Pediatr. 46, 132–139.
9


Calcium and magnesium:
Role of drinking-water in
relation to bone metabolism
C.M. Weaver and J.W. Nieves




9.1 WATER AS A SOURCE OF CALCIUM AND
    MAGNESIUM
The most concentrated sources of calcium in the diets of most people are dairy
products. A high proportion of the calcium intake for much of the world’s
population is from milk. Therefore, to consider the role of high-calcium water in
providing calcium nutrition, it is prudent to compare it with milk for content of
calcium and other nutrients, stability and bioavailability. A litre of milk contains
1276 mg calcium, 118 mg magnesium, 1044 mg phosphorus, 35.5 g protein,
1715 mg potassium, 1.35 mg riboflavin and 380 IU vitamin D (in North
America). The concentration of calcium in milk is reasonably consistent. In
                                Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 97




contrast, the concentration of calcium in water is widely variable. The solubility
of the calcium, which influences whether the calcium is ingested or is apparent
as precipitate in the bottom of the container, depends on many factors,
especially pH and atmospheric carbon dioxide. The presence of anions such as
phosphates, nitrates, chlorides and sulfates determines the solid phase of
calcium across the pH range at the atmospheric pressure of carbon dioxide
present. In contrast, milk pH is controlled within a narrow range by buffering
proteins, and the calcium remains stable in solution through complexes with
casein micelles. Thus, while water may provide important contributions of
calcium and magnesium to the diet, it alone cannot be viewed as a substitute for
milk, because of the variability of waters and also because the availability of
calcium and magnesium may be more variable than that from milk.
   Because magnesium is present in many foods, particularly legumes,
vegetables, nuts, seeds, fruits, grains, fish and dairy products, severe magnesium
deficiency is rarely seen in healthy people. Magnesium in water is subject to
many of the same influences as discussed for calcium.



9.2 BIOAVAILABILITY OF CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
    IN WATER
The bioavailability of calcium includes how well calcium is absorbed, retained
and utilized in the body. The bioavailability of calcium from water is likely to
be influenced by the same factors that affect calcium bioavailability from food,
which has been reviewed (Weaver and Heaney 2006). The presence of anions in
certain waters can influence the bioavailability of calcium from either water or
other sources in the diet.
    Calcium absorption is influenced by the load in a meal and matrix effects on
the meal. Calcium absorption efficiency decreases with increasing load,
although total mass of calcium absorbed continues to increase with load. This
phenomenon is related to the multiple pathways for calcium absorption.
Transcellular calcium absorption is an active process mediated by vitamin D–
induced calcium binding proteins. This is a saturable process as calcium binding
sites become occupied, which reduces absorption efficiency with increasing
load. Paracellular calcium absorption is a passive, non-saturable process that
increases linearly with calcium load.
    Consumption of calcium with a meal generally improves calcium absorption
by about 5% (Recker 1985). The major inhibitors to calcium absorption from
food are oxalate and phytate. Phytate is only modestly inhibitory to calcium
98 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




absorption relative to other cations such as zinc, which is more tightly bound to
the negatively charged phosphate groups on phytic acid. Oxalate forms
insoluble salts with calcium, which reduces calcium absorption 10-fold in
spinach compared with calcium in milk and 2-fold in sweet potatoes and beans
(Weaver and Heaney 2006). Oddly, soybeans, which are rich in both oxalate and
phytate, have only a modest inhibitory effect on calcium absorption.


9.3 CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM ABSORPTION FROM
    WATER
The typical strategy of estimating calcium absorption from a source is to use a
radioactive or stable isotope to label the calcium. The label is measured in the
blood or urine, post-ingestion, to estimate absorption. The method successfully
estimates calcium absorption only to the extent the label exchanges with the
endogenous calcium in the source being studied. In foods, the best measure-
ments of calcium absorption have incorporated the labels endogenously by
giving the label to plants during growth or injecting it into a lactating cow prior
to milking. Calcium salts used as fortificants can be synthesized with calcium
isotopes. However, it is difficult to conceive how the calcium in the ground-
water could be intrinsically labelled. Thus, the studies use the extrinsic labelling
approach. This involves mixing a soluble form of a calcium isotope into the
source. With foods, the extrinsic labelling approach can be validated against an
intrinsic labelling approach. The extrinsic labelling approach was validated for
estimating calcium absorption from milk (Weaver et al. 1997), but vastly
overestimated the calcium absorption from spinach, presumably because the
extrinsic label does not exchange with calcium oxalate (Weaver and Heaney
1991).
   Calcium absorption from high-calcium waters has been studied using the
extrinsic labelling approach. Results from five studies are summarized in Table
9.1; in all these studies, calcium absorption from the water was as good as that
from milk. However, not enough information about the waters was available for
most of the studies to estimate how much of the calcium from the water or the
label was in solution or in a solid phase. If some of the calcium in water is in a
solid phase when the label is added, the label would take a very long time to
equilibrate or may never equilibrate. In that case, the label could be completely
in solution and would represent absorption only from the ionized calcium,
which likely would overestimate calcium absorption from the water.
                                  Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 99




Table 9.1. Calcium absorption from high-calcium water using the extrinsic labelling
approach

          Calcium
Study    load (mg) Absorption results                             Reference
1           100       43.3% from milk and 47.5% from              Heaney and Dowell
                      Sangemini (Italy) water, P < 0.05           (1994)
2           250       23.8% from high-sulfate water and 25%       Couzy et al. (1995)
                      from milk / NS
3           180       37% from mineral water and 38–42%           Van Dokkum et al.
                      from dairy / NS                             (1996)
4           200       34.1–37.0% CaCl2 water (high sulfate vs     Wynckel et al. (1997)
                      high bicarbonate) combinations had
                      equivalent absorption
5           127       22% from water and 23% from milk            Bacciottini et al.
                                                                  (2004)
NS, non-significant

   Waters are diverse, with varying amounts of anions present, depending on the
source and treatment process. Calcium forms complexes with chlorides, nitrates,
bicarbonates, sulfates and hydroxides, as affected by carbon dioxide and pH. As
an example, Figure 9.1 shows the percentage of total calcium that is in solution
as a function of pH in a low- and high-sulfate water. Panel A shows the
formation of calcite as pH increases, when water is at atmospheric (ambient)
carbon dioxide pressure. Above pH 8.5, over half of the calcium is removed
from solution. Most of this would be colloidally dispersed, but will eventually
drop out as “scale” deposits. Panel B shows calcite precipitation expected at
elevated carbon dioxide pressure (10 times ambient, which is not unusual in
groundwater). Above pH 8.0, increasing amounts of calcium are removed from
solution. Sulfate has a rather small impact on the proportion of free calcium in
solution, approximately 10% reduction in the example. Small concentrations of
phosphate in the water will result in the precipitation of hydroxyapatite, a
calcium–phosphorus solid phase. This occurs at pH 7. At the 1 mg phosphate
per litre present in the example, the maximum amount of calcium that can be
precipitated as hydroxyapatite is 9% of the total calcium. The pH of drinking-
water is often maintained above pH 7 to avoid corrosion of pipes. Thus,
formation of calcium solid phases is common. We do not know the bio-
availability of calcium from the carbonates, hydroxides, oxides or other
complexes that can form in water. Furthermore, the calcium complexes may not
be consumed if they have precipitated in the container. Böhmer et al. (2000)
reported the ion concentration of the mineral waters used in all of the studies
100 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




except the study by Bacciottini et al. (2004). However, neither the pH nor the
carbon dioxide pressure was given. Wynckel et al. (1997) did report the pH of
the three mineral waters their group tested, which was 7–7.2. It would be
informative to know the variation in pH and carbon dioxide pressure in mineral
waters.


                    Atmospheric CO2
              100

              80
         2+
          %Ca




              60

              40
                        SO4-S (mg/L)
              20               7
                               70

                0
                    5        6         7         8         9
                                       pH


                    10xAtmospheric CO2
              100

              80
         2+
          %Ca




              60

              40
                        SO4-S (mg/L)
              20               7
                               70

                0
                    5        6         7         8         9
                                       pH

Figure 9.1. Removal of calcium from solution as calcite with increasing pH, carbon
dioxide pressure and sulfate content of water. Composition of the drinking-water: Ca, 16
mg/l; Mg, 1.6 mg/l; SO4, either 7 or 70 mg/l; Cl, 35 mg/l; PO4, 1 mg/l; CO2, either 35.5
Pa (upper panel) or 355 Pa (lower panel).
                               Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 101




   There is less known about the absorption of magnesium from water. Using
the extrinsic labelling approach, magnesium appears to be well absorbed, and
the absorption is improved when the water is consumed during a meal (Sabatier
et al. 2002); absorption is also higher in younger individuals (Verhas et al.
2002).
   A matched case–control analysis reported that depending on the calcium
concentration, mineral-rich water might contribute up to one quarter of the total
calcium intake and 6–17% of the total daily magnesium intake (Galan et al.
2002). Therefore, mineral-rich water may provide an important supplementary
contribution to total calcium and magnesium intake.


9.4 CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM RETENTION FROM
    DRINKING-WATER
Anions in water can influence urinary calcium excretion. Sodium and sulfate
both increase urinary calcium losses. In a cross-over study in 37 young women,
whose basal diets contained 600 mg calcium supplemented with 480 mg
calcium either from milk or from a high-sulfate water in 3-week periods, urinary
calcium excretion was significantly greater (P = 0.001) when the calcium was
ingested from the water than from the milk (3.44 ± 1.21 vs 2.94 ± 1.36
mmol/day) (Brandolini et al. 2005). In the same study, several other minerals
were measured that were also present in the high-calcium water. In particular,
urinary magnesium excretion was higher (P = 0.0002) when the magnesium was
provided in water compared with milk (3.88 ± 1.75 vs 2.95 ± 0.96 mmol/day).
There were no differences in a biochemical marker of bone resorption or
parathyroid hormone (PTH), a hormone that increases bone resorption, between
the two periods. The authors hypothesized that the increased urinary mineral
excretion during the water phase was due to the acidogenic nature of the
sulfates. They speculated that if the observed calcium loss was sustained over 30
years, this could translate to 10–15% loss in bone mineral mass, equivalent to
one third of the bone loss that occurs after menopause.


9.5 EFFECT OF HIGH-MINERAL WATER ON BONE
    METABOLISM
High-calcium water suppresses PTH both acutely (Guillemant et al. 2000) and
chronically (Meunier et al. 2005) relative to low-calcium water. In the study by
Meunier et al. (2005), 180 postmenopausal women aged 70.1 ± 4.0 years were
randomized to one of four groups: 1) high-calcium water, 2) low-calcium water,
3) high-calcium water plus supplementation with 400 IU of vitamin D2 per day
102 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




or 4) a calcium (unspecified salt) plus vitamin D3 supplement for 6 months.
Biochemical markers of bone turnover significantly decreased in the group on
high-calcium mineral water relative to the group on low-calcium mineral water,
by 8.6% for serum osteocalcin, 11.5% for alkaline phosphatase and 16.3% for
serum-type collagen C-telopeptide; as well, there was a decrease in serum PTH
of 14.1%. The vitamin D2 supplement provided no further benefit. The changes
associated with the high-calcium water were similar to those observed with the
supplement of calcium plus vitamin D3. In another study by the same group
(Guillemant et al. 2002), suppression of serum PTH and a bone resorption
marker, serum CTX, was compared in three experimental periods: 1) ~600 mg
of calcium given as high-calcium mineral water in three divided doses, 2) a
single dose of tricalcium phosphate and 3) a low-calcium water in 15 young
men using a cross-over design. Initial suppression of these biochemical indices
of bone resorption was comparable, which was surprising, given the different
initial loads of calcium. However, after the second dose of the high-calcium
water, the biochemical indices remained suppressed throughout the test period,
whereas the indices returned to the control levels after ingestion of the low-
calcium water.


9.6 CALCIUM AND BONE MASS
Considerable epidemiological data have been accumulated seeking to evaluate
the relationship between calcium intake and bone density. Peak bone mass that
is attained during adolescence/young adulthood can be maximized by raising
calcium intake to the Adequate Intake (AI) levels recommended by the 1997
Food and Nutrition Board of the United States Institute of Medicine (IOM
1997). To achieve maximal peak bone mass, dietary calcium and its absorption
need to be at or above the threshold required for skeletal modelling and
consolidation and obligatory losses in urine, faeces and sweat. After growth,
calcium is needed to maintain serum calcium, because any decreases are quickly
compensated for by increases in PTH and increased bone remodelling, leading
to bone loss. Higher calcium intakes have been related to higher bone mass in
children, young adults and postmenopausal women in most (64 out of 86)
observational epidemiological studies and clinical trials of calcium supplemen-
tation (Heaney 2000). However, most individuals do not consume adequate
intakes of calcium.
    Clinical trials with calcium supplements in children and adolescents have
been short term (1–3 years) and have shown an overall positive effect of
calcium on bone mass accrual of between 1% and 6% per year in the total body
and between 1% and 10% at each skeletal region compared with placebo
(Nieves 2002; Matkovic et al. 2004). In children, results are often dependent on
                               Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 103




pubertal stage. For example, in one recent study, postmenarcheal adolescent
girls (<15.5 years of age) with baseline low calcium intakes (<800 mg/day) who
were given calcium supplementation (1000 mg/day) had enhanced bone mineral
acquisition compared with girls given placebo, especially in girls more than
2 years past the onset of menarche (Rozen et al. 2003). A meta-analysis of
calcium intake in slightly older premenopausal women concluded that calcium
supplementation led to an average increase in bone density at the spine and
forearm of 1.1% per year compared with women receiving placebo (Welten et
al. 1995). However, in most studies, the beneficial effect of added calcium on
bone mass disappears when supplementation is halted (Johnston et al. 1992; Lee
et al. 1996), although one trial showed a persistent beneficial effect persisting
after 3–4 years (Bonjour et al. 1997). These data suggest that adequate calcium
intake needs to be maintained throughout childhood, adolescence and young
adulthood to have a lasting impact on peak bone mass.
    In older individuals, calcium intake has been associated with retaining bone
mass. In postmenopausal women, reviews of over 20 studies have concluded
that calcium supplementation can decrease bone loss by approximately 1% per
year (Nordin 1997). In a meta-analysis of 13 trials, calcium induced significant
mean gains in bone mass (or slowed loss of bone mass) of 0.6% at the forearm,
3% at the spine and 2.6% at the femoral neck (Mackerras and Lumley 1997). A
more recent meta-analysis found that in 15 trials, calcium-induced changes in
bone mass were increases of 1.66% at the lumbar spine and 1.64% at the hip
(Shea et al. 2002). Therefore, calcium supplementation has been shown to be
effective in retarding bone loss in postmenopausal women. The beneficial effect
of calcium intake on bone mass in postmenopausal women may be modified by
several factors, including age, number of years since menopause, baseline
calcium intake before supplementation and possibly physical activity level. In
addition, the effect of calcium may be greater at the sites with more cortical
bone (Suzuki et al. 2003; Ho et al. 2004), in elderly and late postmenopausal
women and in women with low baseline calcium intakes. In large enough doses,
calcium can reduce the higher PTH levels and lower the rate of bone
remodelling (McKane et al. 1996). Calcium supplementation appears to
improve the efficacy of anti-resorptive therapy, such as hormone replacement
therapy, on bone mass (Nieves et al. 1998).
    A review of 16 observational studies assessing hip fracture and calcium
intake found that an increase in usual calcium intake of 1 g/day was associated
with a 24% reduction in the risk of hip fracture (Cummings and Nevitt 1997). A
recent prospective cohort study did not show an association between dietary
calcium and vitamin D intake and fracture in a cohort of Swedish women aged
50–85 years (Michaelsson et al. 2003). In a follow-up of the cohort from the
104 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Nurses’ Health Study, a prospective investigation into the risk factors for major
chronic diseases in over 100 000 women aged 34–59 in 1980 (Feskanish et al.
2003), an adequate vitamin D intake was associated with a lower risk of hip
fracture, although neither milk intake nor a high-calcium diet was associated
with hip fracture reduction. A meta-analysis of observational studies relating
calcium intake to fracture risk (Xu et al. 2004) also failed to show any
association between calcium intake and hip fracture, although there was a
suggestion that individuals with extremely low calcium intake may be at
increased fracture risk. However, data from randomized trials are much less
prone to bias than the previously discussed observational studies. Two random-
ized clinical trials, which evaluated calcium supplementation alone, found verte-
bral fractures to be reduced by 28% and symptomatic fractures to be reduced by
70% in the calcium-supplemented group (Reid et al. 1995; Recker et al. 1996).
Significant reductions in fracture (26–54% reduction in hip and non-spine
fracture rates) have also been seen in those randomized clinical trials where
calcium was given in conjunction with vitamin D (Nieves 2002), and it also
appears that a minimum daily dose of 800 IU of vitamin D would be required
for fracture efficacy (Bischoff-Ferrari et al. 2005).


9.7 MAGNESIUM AND BONE MASS
There have been several studies that have shown that higher intakes of
magnesium are related to higher bone mass (Wang et al. 1971; Yano et al. 1985;
Freudenheim et al. 1986; Angus et al. 1988; Houtkooper et al. 1995;
Michaelsson et al. 1995; New et al. 1997, 2000; Ryder et al. 2005). Several
small epidemiological studies have found that higher magnesium intakes are
associated with higher bone mineral density in elderly men and women (Rude
and Olerich 1996; Durlach et al. 1998; Tucker et al. 1999). There have been
only small controlled clinical trials of magnesium supplementation (Nielsen
1990; Stendig-Lindberg et al. 1993) that were primarily effective in increasing
bone mineral density in magnesium-depleted subjects. There is little evidence
that magnesium is needed to prevent osteoporosis in the general population.
Overall, observational and clinical trial data concerning magnesium and bone
density or fractures are inconclusive; in fact, one recent study from the
Women’s Health Initiative (a 15-year programme of women’s health established
by the United States National Institutes of Health in 1991) reported that higher
intakes of magnesium were associated with a higher risk of wrist fracture
(Jackson et al. 2003).
                                 Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 105




9.8 HIGH-MINERAL WATER AND BONE MINERAL
    DENSITY
Whether calcium and magnesium intakes could be improved with drinking-
water and whether this could have an impact on bone health are unknown. There
is some evidence that high-calcium water is beneficial to bone. Spine mineral
density was significantly (P = 0.03) higher in 175 women aged 30–70 years
living in Sangemini, a region of central Italy, who drank the local high-calcium
water (318 mg/l), compared with 80 women in the same region who drank low-
calcium water (<60 mg/l). The estimated difference in calcium intake from an
assessment of diet and water was 258 mg/day on average (Costi et al. 1999). In
an evaluation of calcium ingested from water and hip bone mineral density in
French women (n = 4434) aged 75 years or older, an increase in calcium of 100
mg/day from drinking-water was associated with a 0.5% increase in femoral
bone density (Aptel et al. 1999).


9.9 CONCLUSIONS
The bioavailability of calcium from water is likely subject to the same
influences as for calcium bioavailability from food. Therefore, divided doses
throughout the day promote calcium absorption efficiency, which would suggest
that the habit of sipping on water throughout the day is preferential to bolus
consumption of food sources of calcium. There is indication that calcium from
high-calcium water (and calcium from other sources) is beneficial to bone health
by suppressing bone resorption. Little is known about magnesium bioavail-
ability from the diet, including water. Current evidence for a role of magnesium
in bone health is quite weak. While high-mineral waters may provide supple-
mental calcium and magnesium to the diet, they are not able to serve as a main
source of these nutrients with the variation in content and solubility.


9.10 REFERENCES
Angus, R.M., Sambrook, P.N., Pocock, N.A. and Eisman, J.A. (1988) Dietary intake and
    bone mineral density. Bone Miner. 4(3), 265–277.
Aptel, I., Cance-Rouzaud, A. and Grandjean, H. (1999) Association between calcium
    ingested from drinking water and femoral bone density in elderly women: Evidence
    from the EPIDOS cohort. J. Bone Miner. Res. 14, 829–833.
Bacciottini, L., Tanini, A., Falchetti, A., Masi, L., Franceschelli, F., Pampaloni, B.,
    Giorgi, G. and Brandi, M.L. (2004) Calcium bioavailability from a calcium-rich
    mineral water, with some observations on method. J. Clin. Gastroenterol. 38, 761–
    766.
106 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Bischoff-Ferrari, H.A., Willett, W.C., Wong, J.B., Giovannucci, E., Dietrich, T. and
     Dawson-Hughes, B. (2005) Fracture prevention with vitamin D supplementation: a
     meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. JAMA, 293(18), 2257–2264.
Böhmer, H., Muller, H. and Resch, K.-L. (2000) Calcium supplementation with calcium-
     rich mineral waters: A systematic review and meta-analysis of its bioavailability.
     Osteoporos. Int. 11, 938–943.
Bonjour, J.P., Carrie, A.L., Ferrari, S., Clavien, H., Slosman, D., Theintz, G. and Rizzoli,
     R. (1997) Calcium-enriched foods and bone mass growth in prepubertal girls: a
     randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J. Clin. Invest. 99, 1287–1297.
Brandolini, M., Gueguen, L., Boirie, Y., Rousset, P., Bertiere, M.-C. and Beaufrere, B.
     (2005) Higher calcium urinary loss induced by a calcium sulphate-rich mineral
     water intake than by milk in young women. Br. J. Nutr. 93, 225–231.
Costi, D., Calcaterra, P.G., Iori, N., Vourna, S., Nappi, G. and Passeri, M. (1999)
     Importance of bioavailable calcium drinking water for the maintenance of bone
     mass in post-menopausal women. J. Endocrinol. Invest. 22(11), 852–856.
Couzy, F., Kastenmayer, P., Vigo, M., Cloush, J., Munoz-Box, R. and Barclay, D.V.
     (1995) Calcium bioavailability from a calcium- and sulfate-rich mineral water,
     compared with milk, in young adult women. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 62, 1239–1244.
Cummings, R.G. and Nevitt, M.C. (1997) Calcium for prevention of osteoporotic
     fractures in postmenopausal women. J. Bone Miner. Res. 12, 1321–1329.
Durlach, J., Bac, P., Durlach, V., Rayssiguier, Y., Bara, M. and Guiet-Bara, A. (1998)
     Magnesium status and ageing: an update. Magnes. Res. 11, 25–42.
Feskanish, D., Willett, W.C. and Colditz, G.A. (2003) Calcium, vitamin D, milk con-
     sumption, and hip fractures: a prospective study among postmenopausal women.
     Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 77, 504–511.
Freudenheim, L.J., Johnson, N.E. and Smith, E.L. (1986) Relationships between usual
     nutrient intake and bone-mineral content of women 35–65 years of age: longitudinal
     and cross-sectional analysis. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 44, 863–876.
Galan, P., Arnaud, M.J., Czernichow, S., Delabroise, A.M., Preziosi, P., Bertrais, S.,
     Franchisseur, C., Maurel, M., Favier, A. and Hercberg, S. (2002) Contribution of
     mineral waters to dietary calcium and magnesium intake in a French adult
     population. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. 102(11), 1658–1662.
Guillemant, J., Le, H.-T., Accarie, C., Tezenas du Montecel, S., Delabroise, A.-M.,
     Arnaud, M.J. and Guillemant, S. (2000) Mineral water as a source of dietary
     calcium: acute effects on parathyroid function and bone resorption in young men.
     Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 71, 999–1002.
Guillemant, J., Accarie, C., de la Gueronniere, V. and Guillemant, S. (2002) Calcium in
     mineral water can effectively suppress parathyroid function and bone resorption.
     Nutr. Res. 22, 901–910.
Heaney, R.P. (2000) Calcium, dairy products and osteoporosis. J. Am. Coll. Nutr.
     19(Suppl. 2), 83S–99S.
Heaney, R.P. and Dowell, M.S. (1994) Absorbability of the calcium in a high-calcium
     mineral water. Osteoporos. Int. 4, 323–324.
Ho, S.C., Chen, Y.M., Woo, J.L. and Lam, S.S. (2004) High habitual calcium intake
     attenuates bone loss in early postmenopausal Chinese women: an 18-month follow-
     up study. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 89, 2166–2170.
Houtkooper, L.B., Ritenbaugh, C., Aickin, M., Lohman, T.G., Going, S.B., Weber, J.L.,
     Greaves, K.A., Boyden, T.W., Pamenter, R.W. and Hall, M.C. (1995) Nutrients,
                                   Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 107




     body composition and exercise are related to change in bone mineral density in
     premenopausal women. J. Nutr. 125(5), 1229–1237.
IOM (1997) Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin
     D, and Fluoride. Prepared by the Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation
     of Dietary Reference Intakes, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine.
     National Academy Press, Washington, DC (http://www.nap.edu/books/0309063507/
     html).
Jackson, R.D., Bassford, T., Cauley, J., Chen, Z., LaCroix, A., Sparks, A. and
     Wactawske-Wende, J. (2003) The impact of magnesium intake on fractures: results
     from the Women’s Health Initiative Observational Study (WHI-OS). In Abstracts of
     the 2003 Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research
     (Presentation       No.      1089;      http://www.betterbones.com/alkaline/articles/
     asbmr_abstract.pdf).
Johnston, C.C., Jr, Miller, J.Z., Slemenda, C.W., Reister, T.K., Hui, S., Christian, J.C.
     and Peacock, M. (1992) Calcium supplementation and increases in bone mineral
     density in children. N. Engl. J. Med. 327, 82–87.
Lee, W.T., Leung, S.S., Leung, D.M. and Cheng, J.C. (1996) A follow-up study on the
     effects of calcium-supplement withdrawal and puberty on bone acquisition of
     children. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 64, 71–77.
Mackerras, D. and Lumley, T. (1997) First- and second-year effects in trials of calcium
     supplementation on the loss of bone density in postmenopausal women. Bone 21,
     527–533.
Matkovic, V., Badenhop-Stevens, N., Ha, E.-J., Crncevic-Orlic, Z. and Clairmont, A.
     (2004) Nutrition and bone health in children and adolescents. In Nutrition and Bone
     Health (ed. M.F. Holick and B. Dawson-Hughes), pp. 93–115, Humana Press,
     Totowa, NJ.
McKane, W.R., Khosla, S., Egan, K.S., Robins, S.P., Burritt, M.F. and Riggs, B.L.
     (1996) Role of calcium intake in modulating age-related increases in parathyroid
     function and bone resorption. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 81, 1699–1703.
Meunier, P.J., Jenvrin, C., Munoz, F., de la Gueronniere, V., Garnero, P. and Menz, M.
     (2005) Consumption of a high calcium mineral water lowers biochemical indices of
     bone remodeling in postmenopausal women with low calcium intake. Osteoporos.
     Int. 16(10), 1203–1209.
Michaelsson, K., Holmberg, L., Mallmin, H., Wolk, A., Bergstrom, R. and Ljunghall, S.
     (1995) Diet, bone mass, and osteocalcin: a cross-sectional study. Calcif. Tissue Int.
     57(2), 86–93.
Michaelsson, K., Melhus, H., Bellocco, R. and Wolk, A. (2003) Dietary calcium and
     vitamin D intake in relation to osteoporotic fracture risk. Bone 32, 694–703.
New, S.A., Bolton-Smith, C., Grubb, D.A. and Reid, D.M. (1997) Nutritional influences
     on bone mineral density: a cross-sectional study in premenopausal women. Am. J.
     Clin. Nutr. 65(6), 1831–1839.
New, S.A., Robins, S.P., Campbell, M.K., Martin, J.C., Garton, M.J., Bolton-Smith, C.,
     Grubb, D.A., Lee, S.J. and Reid, D.M. (2000) Dietary influences on bone mass and
     bone metabolism: further evidence of a positive link between fruit and vegetable
     consumption and bone health? Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 71, 142–151.
Nielsen, F.H. (1990) Studies on the relationship between boron and magnesium which
     possibly affects the formation and maintenance of bones. Magnes. Trace Elem. 9,
     61–69.
108 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Nieves, J.W. (2002) Nutrition and osteoporosis. In Osteoporosis: An Evidence Based
     Approach to the Prevention and Management (ed. S. Cummings, F. Cosman and S.
     Jamal), American College of Physicians, Philadelphia, PA.
Nieves, J.W., Komar, L., Cosman, F. and Lindsay, R. (1998) Calcium potentiates the
     effect of estrogen and calcitonin on bone mass: review and analysis. Am. J. Clin.
     Nutr. 67, 18–24.
Nordin, B.E.C. (1997) Calcium and osteoporosis. Nutrition 13, 664–686.
Recker, R.R. (1985) Calcium absorption and achlorhydria. N. Engl. J. Med. 313, 70–73.
Recker, R.R., Hinders, S., Davies, K.M., Heaney, R.P., Stegman, M.R., Lappe, J.M. and
     Kimmel, D.B. (1996) Correcting calcium nutritional deficiency prevents spine
     fractures in elderly women. J. Bone Miner. Res. 11, 1961–1966.
Reid, I.R., Ames, R.W., Evans, M.C., Gamble, G.D. and Sharpe, S.J. (1995) Long-term
     effects of calcium supplementation on bone loss and fractures in postmenopausal
     women: A randomized controlled trial. Am. J. Med. 98, 331–335.
Rozen, G.S., Rennert, G., Dodiuk-Gad, R.P., Rennert, H.S., Ish-Shalom, N., Diab, G.,
     Raz, B. and Ish-Shalom, S. (2003) Calcium supplementation provides an extended
     window of opportunity for bone mass accretion after menarche. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.
     78, 993–998.
Rude, R.K. and Olerich, M. (1996) Magnesium deficiency: possible role in osteoporosis
     associated with gluten-sensitive enteropathy. Osteoporos. Int. 6, 453–461.
Ryder, K.M., Shorr, R.I., Bush, A.J., Kritchevsky, S.B., Harris, T., Stone, K., Cauley, J.
     and Tylavsky, F.A. (2005) Magnesium intake from food and supplements is
     associated with bone mineral density in healthy older white subjects. J. Am. Geriatr.
     Soc. 53(11), 1875–1880.
Sabatier, M., Arnaud, M.J., Kastenmayer, P., Rytz, A. and Barclay, D.V. (2002) Meal
     effect on magnesium bioavailability from mineral water in healthy women. Am. J.
     Clin. Nutr. 75(1), 65–71.
Shea, B., Wells, G., Cranney, A., Zytaruk, N., Robinson, V., Griffith, L., Ortiz, Z.,
     Peterson, J., Adachi, J., Tugwell, P. and Guyatt, G. (2002) Osteoporosis
     Methodology Group and The Osteoporosis Research Advisory Group. Meta-
     analyses of therapies for postmenopausal osteoporosis. VII. Meta-analysis of
     calcium supplementation for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
     Endocrinol. Rev. 23, 552–559.
Stendig-Lindberg, G., Tepper, R. and Leichter, I. (1993) Trabecular bone density in a
     two year controlled trial of peroral magnesium in osteoporosis. Magnes. Res. 6,
     155–163.
Suzuki, Y., Davison, K.S. and Chilibeck, P.D. (2003) Total calcium intake is associated
     with cortical bone mineral density in a cohort of postmenopausal women not taking
     estrogen. J. Nutr. Health Aging 7, 296–299.
Tucker, K.L., Hannan, M.T., Chen, H., Cupples, L.A., Wilson, P.W. and Kiel, D.P.
     (1999) Potassium, magnesium, and fruit and vegetable intakes are associated with
     greater bone mineral density in elderly men and women. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 69, 727–
     736.
Van Dokkum, W., de la Gueronniere, V., Schaafsma, G.L., Bouley, C., Suten, J. and
     Latge, C. (1996) Bioavailability of calcium of fresh cheeses, enteral food and
     mineral water. A study with stable calcium isotopes in young adult women. Br. J.
     Nutr. 75, 893–903.
Verhas, M., de la Gueronniere, V., Grognet, J.M., Paternot, J., Hermanne, A., Van den
     Winkel, P., Gheldof, R., Martin, P., Fantino, M. and Rayssiguier, Y. (2002)
                                 Role of drinking-water in relation to bone metabolism 109




    Magnesium bioavailability from mineral water. A study in adult men. Eur. J. Clin.
    Nutr. 56(5), 442–447.
Wang, F.L., Wang, R., Khairallah, E.A. and Schwartz, R. (1971) Magnesium depletion
    during gestation and lactation in rats. J. Nutr. 101(9), 1201–1209.
Weaver, C.M. and Heaney, R.P. (1991) Isotopic exchange of ingested calcium between
    labeled sources. Evidence that ingested calcium does not form a common absorptive
    pool. Calcif. Tissue Int. 49, 244–247.
Weaver, C.M. and Heaney, R.P. (2006) Food sources, supplements and bioavailability. In
    Calcium in Human Health (ed. C.M. Weaver and R.P. Heaney), pp. 129–142,
    Humana Press, Totowa, NJ.
Weaver, C.M., Heaney, R.P., Nickel, K.P. and Packard, P.I. (1997) Calcium bioavail-
    ability from high oxalate vegetables: Chinese vegetables, sweet potatoes and
    rhubarb. J. Food Sci. 62(3), 524–525.
Welten, D.C., Kemper, H.C.G., Post, G.B. and Van Staveren, W.A. (1995) A meta-
    analysis of the effect of calcium intake on bone mass in young and middle aged
    females and males. J. Nutr. 125, 2802–2813.
Wynckel, A., Hanrotel, C., Wuillai, A. and Chanard, J. (1997) Intestinal calcium
    absorption from mineral water. Miner. Electrolyte Metab. 23, 88–92.
Xu, L., McElduff, P., D’Este, C. and Attia, J. (2004) Does dietary calcium have a
    protective effect on bone fractures in women? A meta-analysis of observational
    studies. Br. J. Nutr. 91, 625–634.
Yano, K., Heilbrun, L.K., Wasnich, R.D., Hankin, J.H. and Vogel, J.M. (1985) The
    relationship between diet and bone mineral content of multiple skeletal sites in
    elderly Japanese-American men and women living in Hawaii. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.
    42(5), 877–888.
10


Epidemiological studies
and the association of
cardiovascular disease
risks with water hardness
R. Calderon and P. Hunter




10.1 THE HARD WATER–CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE
     HYPOTHESIS
Since the mid-1950s, there has been a steady source of epidemiological studies
evaluating the relationship of water hardness to cardiovascular disease. The first
paper to call attention to the marked geographic variation in death rates from
heart disease appeared in 1956. Analysing death rates for the United States from
1949 to 1951, Enterline and Stewart (1956) noted that place of residence might
be an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
   The World Health Organization held an expert meeting in Rome, Italy, in
November 2003 to address a number of questions relating to the nutrient
                                                            Epidemiological studies 111




composition of drinking-water and the possibility that drinking-water could in
some circumstances contribute to total dietary nutrition (WHO 2005). Calderon
and Craun (2005) reviewed the epidemiological studies of water hardness and
cardiovascular disease published before 1980, and Monarca et al. (2005)
reviewed the studies of water hardness and cardiovascular and other diseases
published from 1980 to 2002. Because different kinds of epidemiological
studies have been conducted during the past 35 years, close attention should be
paid to the problem of interpreting their results.
   The first part of this chapter describes important aspects of epidemiological
studies to help readers better understand what each study design can contribute
to our understanding of the possible benefits that may be attributed to hard
water. The second part of the chapter reviews those epidemiological studies that
have examined the association of cardiovascular disease risks with water
hardness.


10.2 OVERVIEW OF EPIDEMIOLOGICAL METHODS,
     STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES
10.2.1 Types of epidemiological studies
Observational epidemiological studies are either descriptive or analytical (Table
10.1). Descriptive epidemiology is important for summarizing disease information
(e.g. cardiovascular disease mortality) to help assess demographic and geographical
patterns of disease and develop hypotheses about disease etiologies. Analytical
epidemiology is used to test specific hypotheses. Ecological (also called
geographical, correlational or aggregate) studies explore possible associations
between health statistics, demographic measures and risk factors or exposures (e.g.
environmental or water quality measures). The ecological study is relatively inex-
pensive and easy to conduct, but the associations that are observed must be
cautiously interpreted (Greenland and Robins 1994a,b; Piantadosi 1994; Poole
1994). It must be remembered that the health, exposure and demographic statistics
characterize population groups rather than the individuals within the groups. The
group may not be the appropriate unit of study, and serious errors can result when it
is assumed that inferences from an ecological analysis pertain to the individuals
within the group. Neither theoretical nor empirical analyses have offered consistent
guidelines for the interpretation of results from ecological studies. Although corre-
lation coefficients can be obtained from ecological studies, a reliable quantitative
estimate of risk cannot.
112 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Table 10.1. Types of observational epidemiological studies (adapted from Monson 1990)
 Descriptive studies                     Analytical studies
 Disease surveillance/surveys            Cross-sectional
 Ecological                              Longitudinal
                                         •   Cohort or follow-up
                                         •   Case–control

    Analytical epidemiological studies are able to provide information about pos-
sible causal associations and the magnitude of the risk (Monson 1990). In contrast
to ecological studies, individuals within a population group or geographic area are
studied. For each study participant, information is obtained about his or her disease,
his or her exposure to possible risk factors and other important individual
behaviours or characteristics. Analytical studies can be either longitudinal or cross-
sectional. In a longitudinal study, a time sequence can be inferred between expo-
sure and disease; that is, it can be determined whether the exposure precedes the
disease. In a cross-sectional study, the data on exposure and disease relate to the
same time period, and this may present a problem when studying diseases with a
long latency period. Longitudinal studies are of two distinct, opposite approaches.
The cohort study (also called a follow-up study) begins with an exposure or charac-
teristic of interest and seeks to determine disease consequences of the exposure or
characteristic. The case–control (also called case–referent or case–comparison)
study begins with a disease or health condition of interest and seeks information
about exposures and risk factors.
    In a case–control study, individuals enter the study solely on the basis of
disease status without knowledge of their exposure status. A single disease or
health outcome (e.g. cardiovascular mortality, blood lipid levels) is studied.
Persons with the disease or outcome are selected within a defined geographical
area or from selected hospital(s), clinic(s) or a specified cohort. A comparison
group of individuals in which the condition or disease is absent (the controls or
referents) is also selected, preferably randomly, from the same population from
which the cases arise. Existing or past attributes and exposures thought to be
relevant in the development of the disease are determined for all cases and
controls. Because previous exposures are studied, a case–control study is
sometimes called a retrospective study. The frequency of exposure is compared
for individuals with and without the disease to determine possible associations
with the disease being studied. This study design is usually more efficient than
the cohort study, requires fewer study participants for adequate statistical power
and is often considered as the first option when studying risk factors. Infor-
mation about relevant individual exposures or behaviour (e.g. smoking, use of
hard or soft water and, where water is consumed, calcium and magnesium
                                                           Epidemiological studies 113




exposures) is obtained by interview and/or measurement. Often, information
must be obtained by questioning a surviving spouse. It may be difficult to
accurately assess exposures that may have occurred many years ago and to
ensure that the quality and accuracy of information about exposures are similar
for cases and controls.
   Individuals are selected for the cohort solely on the basis of the presence or
absence of certain characteristics, a specific event or their exposure status (e.g.
water hardness; high, moderate or low levels of calcium or magnesium in water). A
fundamental requirement is that the investigator should not know the disease status
of any individual when the cohort is assembled. Morbidity or mortality incidence is
then determined for the diseases of interest, and rates are compared for the exposed
and unexposed groups in the cohort. An advantage of this study is that more than
one health-related outcome or disease can be studied. A cohort can be based on
currently defined exposures and followed forward in time or based on historical
exposures, if available. For diseases with a long latency period, it may be possible
to assemble a historical cohort based on known exposures at some previous point in
time. For example, if a cohort could be established based on known drinking-water
exposures (e.g. to water hardness) in 1970, over 30 years of exposure would have
already occurred, and the follow-up period could be relatively short.
   A special kind of cohort study, the community intervention study can be
conducted when a community changes water treatment or sources to improve its
water quality. Both individual-level and group-level disease and water exposure
information can be collected in this type of study. Community intervention
studies helped demonstrate the effectiveness of water fluoridation in preventing
dental caries. Advantages of this type of study include the following: a time-
series analysis can be conducted; water quality is changed at all places where
persons may consume water (e.g. home, school, work, restaurants), minimizing
exposure misclassification; and a large number of routinely collected com-
munity health surveillance data can be evaluated. A major difficulty and
limitation of cardiovascular disease studies is that the latency period to effect a
detectable change in disease risk may require many years of follow-up, and the
population demographics and behaviours may change significantly over time.
Since the studies must be conducted in areas considering changes, the areas may
not be optimal in terms of water quality or population characteristics.

10.2.2 Random and systematic error
The association observed in each study type should be evaluated to assess
possible random and systematic error (Table 10.2). The likelihood that a positive
association is due to random error can be assessed by calculating the level of
114 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




statistical significance (“p” value) or the confidence interval. In epidemiology, the
confidence interval is the preferred measure of random error because it provides a
range of possible values for the risk estimate. It should be remembered, however,
that random error or chance can never be completely ruled out as the explanation
for an observed result and that statistical significance does not imply causality,
biological significance or lack of systematic error.
Table 10.2. Interpreting epidemiological associations
 Lack of random error (precision)       Lack of systematic error (validity)
 Study size and statistical power       Selection bias
                                        Misclassification bias
                                        Observation bias
                                        Confounding bias

    Systematic error or bias affects the validity of an observed association.
Systematic error can occur in the design and conduct of the study, leading to a
false or spurious association or a measure of risk that departs systematically
from the true value. Systematic error should be avoided or controlled; in some
instances, its effect may be assessed.
    Error can be introduced by observation, selection, misclassification and
confounding biases. Selection bias occurs when criteria used to enrol persons into
the study are not comparable for exposed and unexposed individuals or cases and
controls. Observation bias occurs when disease or exposure information is
collected differently from the groups being studied (e.g. cases and controls).
Selective or differential recall of cases or controls about their exposure will also
result in a biased estimate of risk.
    An erroneous diagnosis of disease or erroneous classification of a study
participant’s exposure will result in misclassification bias. The probability of
misclassification can vary in either a differential or non-differential manner among
the groups being studied. Non-differential misclassification will almost always bias
a study towards not observing an association when one may actually be present or
underestimating the magnitude of the association. Differential misclassification
bias can result in associations that either under- or overestimate the magnitude of
risk. In environmental epidemiological studies where the magnitude of the
association is often small, accurate assessment of exposure is critical, as the impact
of misclassification can be severe. The imprecise nature of the water hardness
estimate presents a potential for exposure misclassification bias in cardio-
vascular studies.
    Confounding bias may convey the appearance of an association; that is, a
confounding characteristic rather than the suspected cause or exposure may be
responsible for all or much of the observed association. A confounder is a
                                                               Epidemiological studies 115




characteristic that can cause or prevent the disease and is associated with the
exposure being evaluated. Cigarette smoking is a potential confounder that should
be assessed in studies of drinking-water and cardiovascular disease risks. Con-
founding bias does not necessarily result from any error of the investigator. It is
potentially present in all epidemiological studies and must always be considered as
a possible explanation for any observed association. If a risk factor or characteristic
has no association with exposure or disease, that factor or characteristic cannot
confound the association between exposure and disease. To avoid confounding,
investigators may employ a technique known as matching. For example, controls
may be selected to have similar characteristics as cases (e.g. age, smoking status).
Not to be confused with a confounding bias, effect modification refers to a change
in the magnitude of the effect of a putative cause (Monson 1990). The possible
interactive effects of smoking and a drinking-water factor are an example of effect
modification that should be assessed for cardiovascular disease risks.

10.2.3 Strength of association
The magnitude of the risk ratio or relative risk can help investigators assess the
spurious nature of an observed association. Based on epidemiological experience
(Monson 1990), it is difficult to interpret weak associations, or a relative risk of less
than 1.5 (Table 10.3). One or more confounding characteristics can lead to a weak
association between exposure and disease, and it is usually not possible to identify
and adequately measure or control weak confounding bias. In contrast, a large
relative risk is unlikely to be completely explained by an unidentified or
uncontrolled confounding factor. The magnitude of a relative risk, however, has no
bearing on the possibility that an association is due to observation, selection or
misclassification bias. Any of these biases can lead to a total misrepresentation of
an observed association. If a relative risk of less than 1.5 is observed in an
environmental epidemiological study, a thorough assessment should be made to
identify possible uncontrolled confounding.
Table 10.3. Assessing the strength of an epidemiological association (adapted from
Monson 1990)
 Relative risk                                     Strength of association
 1.0                                               None
 >1.0 – <1.5                                       Weak
 1.5–3.0                                           Moderate
 3.1–10.0                                          Strong
 >10.0                                             Infinite
116 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




10.2.4 Causality of an association
The interpretation of epidemiological data should be made with caution and in the
context of all relevant scientific information about the disease and its etiology. No
single epidemiological study, even one with little systematic error, can provide a
definitive answer about the exposure–disease association. Results from several
studies of different design and different population groups allow a more definitive
conclusion, and it may be necessary to consider studies in both the general and
special populations. Judging causality in epidemiology is based on guidelines (Hill
1965; Rothman 1986; Beaglehole et al. 1993), which include:

    •    Temporal association: Exposure must precede the disease, and in most
         epidemiological studies this can be inferred. When exposure and
         disease are measured simultaneously, it is possible that exposure has
         been modified by the presence of disease.
    •    Strength of association: The larger the relative risk or odds ratio, the
         less likely the association is to be spurious or due to confounding bias.
         However, a causal association should not be ruled out simply because a
         weak association is observed.
    •    Consistency: Repeated observation of an association under different
         study conditions supports an inference of causality; however, its
         absence does not rule it out.
    •    Specificity: A putative cause or exposure leads to a specific effect. The
         presence of specificity argues for causality, but its absence does not
         rule it out.
    •    Biological plausibility: When the association is supported by evidence
         from clinical research or basic sciences (e.g. toxicology, microbiology)
         about biological behaviour or mechanisms, an inference of causality is
         strengthened.
    •    Dose–response relationship: A causal interpretation is more plausible
         when an epidemiological gradient is found (e.g. higher risk is
         associated with larger exposures).
    •    Reversibility: An observed association leads to some preventive action,
         and removal or reduction of the exposure leads to a reduction of
         disease or risk of disease.

   Epidemiologists have debated how scientific evidence should be evaluated in
an attempt to better understand causal inferences. Even when repetitions of an
association are observed, questions may remain as to whether these associations
really constitute an “empirical demonstration that serves as a valid platform for
(causal) inference” or whether “the process is still steeped in uncertainty”
                                                             Epidemiological studies 117




(Rothman 1986). Thus, when environmental policy-makers and regulators are
confronted with epidemiological associations that suggest the need for action,
they must be aware of the uncertainties about causality. Scientific evidence is
often conflicting, and the type of evidence or studies that are considered in the
evaluation must be given due weight based on the issues mentioned previously (i.e.
study design, study precision and study validity).

10.2.5 Web of causation
Many diseases have multiple exposures or risk factors that cause the disease or
increase the disease risk, and the disease process is often a complex one. This
complexity is evident in the example conceptual model that might be used to
describe the relationship between water exposures and other risk factors for
cardiovascular disease (Figure 10.1). This model is often referred to as the web of
causation (Rockett 1994). It places less emphasis on the role of the agent or water
contaminant in favour of other factors that may be important in the onset of disease.
Epidemiologists have found lower cardiovascular disease mortality in areas where
water hardness (e.g. levels of calcium and magnesium) is high, and some studies
have associated water constituents with decreased blood pressure. The use of a
dotted line for water exposures in Figure 10.1 suggests that additional evidence
may be warranted.

                                WATER
                                                   Cholesterol


             Stress
                                Diet
                                                 Physical Activity
Hormones

                               Obesity                           Genetic
                                                                 Factors

   Smoking
                             Hardening of the
                             Arteries               Hypertension




   Heart                                          Hypertensive
                           Stroke
   Disease                                        Disease



Figure 10.1. Web of causation applied to cardiovascular disease (adapted from Rockett
1994).
118 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




10.2.6 Conclusions
Results of ecological studies are useful to identify emerging problems, to develop
specific hypotheses for study by analytical studies and, in some instances, to
evaluate health conditions and control programmes. Results from analytical studies
can provide evidence of a causal association between exposure and disease and
estimates of the magnitude of risk, but the studies must be carefully designed and
conducted. Because small risks have usually been observed in environmental
epidemiological studies, it is extremely important to consider the effects of mis-
classification bias and confounding on the interpretation of the associations
reported for water hardness and cardiovascular disease.
    When considering epidemiological evidence for the hard water–cardiovascu-
lar disease hypothesis, it is important to critically evaluate each study to deter-
mine the quality and amount of information it can contribute to the evaluation of
an association’s causality and magnitude of risk. At present, sufficient
information should be available to assess the causality of the observed associa-
tion and estimate the benefits that may be attributed to hard water or a specific
constituent found in hard water.


10.3 THE ASSOCIATION OF CARDIOVASCULAR
     DISEASE RISKS WITH WATER HARDNESS
We have summarized information published in recent reviews of the epidemi-
ological studies of cardiovascular disease and drinking-water hardness and
calcium and magnesium levels (Catling et al. 2005; Monarca et al. 2006). The
results of these studies are briefly described below.

10.3.1 Epidemiological studies published from 1957 to 1978
More than 50 ecological (geographical correlation) studies were published from
1957 to 1978. Studies were conducted in the United States, the United Kingdom,
Ireland, Canada, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Italy, Romania, Czech
Republic, Germany, Japan, Australia and Hungary. Populations in 21 cities
around the world were also studied. Comstock (1979a,b) reviewed these studies
based on size of geographical areas (national or international; province or state;
county, borough or city).
                                                            Epidemiological studies 119




10.3.2 Epidemiological studies published after 1978: ecological
      studies
Twenty ecological studies (Masironi et al. 1979; Scassellati Sforzolini et al.
1979; Pocock et al. 1980; Zielhuis and Haring 1981; Leary et al. 1983; Lacey
and Shaper 1984; Leoni et al. 1985; Smith and Crombie 1987; Grillo et al.
1989; Flaten and Bolviken 1991; Gyllerup et al. 1991; Rylander et al. 1991;
Nerbrand et al. 1992, 2003; Yang et al. 1996; Maheswaran et al. 1999; Sauvant
and Pepin 2000; Marque et al. 2003; Miyake and Iki 2003; Kousa et al. 2004)
were reviewed (Table 10.4). Some studies took into account potential con-
founders such as socioeconomic status, income or climate (Pocock et al. 1980;
Gyllerup et al. 1991; Yang et al. 1996; Maheswaran et al. 1999; Nerbrand et al.
1992, 2003; Miyake and Iki 2003).
   Ten studies reported a statistically significant inverse (i.e. protective) associa-
tion between drinking-water hardness and cardiovascular disease mortality
(Masironi et al. 1979; Pocock et al. 1980; Leary et al. 1983; Lacey and Shaper
1984; Leoni et al. 1985; Rylander et al. 1991; Yang et al. 1996; Sauvant and
Pepin 2000; Marque et al. 2003; Kousa et al. 2004). When calcium and
magnesium were evaluated separately, similar associations with cardiovascular
disease mortality were frequently found for each. Four of these studies
estimated the effect of drinking-water hardness. A 7.5% reduction of
cardiovascular disease mortality in men for 100 mg/l increased water hardness
was reported in England and Wales (Lacey and Shaper 1984). In Finland (Kousa
et al. 2004), the risk of acute myocardial infarction decreased 0.56% for each 10
mg/l increase in water hardness. A 10% increase in the risk of ischaemic heart
disease mortality was reported in municipalities in Taiwan, China (Yang et al.
1996), with <75 mg/l water hardness compared with those with >150 mg/l
hardness. In France (Marque et al. 2003), a 10% reduction of the relative risk
for cardiovascular disease and ischaemic heart disease mortality and a 14%
reduction of the relative risk for stroke mortality were found for the highest
compared with the lowest concentrations.
   Six of the remaining 10 studies found either a very small inverse association
or no association (Scassellati Sforzolini et al. 1979; Zielhuis and Haring 1981;
Smith and Crombie 1987; Gyllerup et al. 1991; Maheswaran et al. 1999; Kousa
et al. 2004). In Norway (Flaten and Bolviken 1991), ischaemic heart disease and
stroke mortality rates increased with increased drinking-water magnesium, but
these findings are questionable, since virtually all municipalities in the study
had soft water.
Table 10.4. Ecological (geographic correlation) studies on the relationship between cardiovascular diseases or stroke and hardness and/or
calcium/magnesium concentration of drinking-water
                    Country, area and                         Drinking-water          CVD or stroke
Reference           population age                Period      parameters              mortality     Results
Masironi et al.     Europe, 17 towns, 45–64       1974        Total hardnessa         AMI incidence M & F: r = 0.46
(1979)              years                                     32–354 mg/l

Scassellati         Italy, Umbria Region, 12      1967–1976   Total hardness        Mortality for:
Sforzolini et al.   municipalities                                                  IHD                M & F: r = +0.28
(1979)                                                                              Stroke             M & F: r = 0.07
                                                              Calcium concentration Mortality for:
                                                                                    IHD                M & F: r = +0.37
                                                                                    Stroke             M & F: r = 0.05
                                                                                                                                            120 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                                                              Magnesium             Mortality for:
                                                              concentration         IHD                M & F: r = 0.26
                                                                                    Stroke             M & F: r = 0.28
Pocock et al.       Great Britain, 253            1969–1973   Total hardnessa       Mortality for      M & F: r = 0.67
(1980)              municipalities, 35–74 years               10–528 mg/l           CVD
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                        Drinking-water          CVD or stroke
Reference         population age               Period      parameters              mortality        Results
Zielhuis and      The Netherlands, 30          1977        Calcium concentration   Mortality for:
Haring (1981)     communities, 30 years                   16–117 mg/l             IHD              M: r = 0.01    F: r = 0.11
                                                                                   Stroke           M: r = 0.14    F: r = 0.12
                                                           Magnesium               Mortality for:
                                                           concentration           IHD              M: r = 0.19    F: r = 0.10
                                                           1–15 mg/l               Stroke           M: r = 0.02    F: r = 0.07
Leary et al.     South Africa, 12 districts,   1978–1982   Magnesium               Mortality for    White M: r = 0.68*
(1983)           all ages                                  concentration           IHD
                                                           1–45 mg/l
Lacey and        England and Wales, 14         1968–1972   Total hardnessa         Mortality for    M: 7.5% reduction of mortality
Shaper (1984)    areas, 45–74 years                        19–409 mg/l             CVD              for 100 mg/l increase of
                                                                                                    hardness*
Leoni et al.     Italy, Abruzzo Region, 11     1969–1978   Total hardnessa         Mortality for:
(1985)           water supplies in four                    105.6–443.5 mg/l        CVD              M & F: r = 0.55*
                 provinces, 45–64 years                                            IHD              M & F: r = 0.59*
                                                                                                                                     Epidemiological studies 121




                                                                                   Stroke           M & F: r = 0.24
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                         Drinking-water         CVD or stroke
Reference         population age                Period      parameters             mortality       Results
Smith and         Scotland, 56 districts, 35–   1979–1983   Total hardnessa        Mortality for   M: r = 0.17
Crombie (1987) 64 years                                     0–180 mg/l             IHD
Grillo et al.     Italy, Sicily Region, 12      1980–1982   Total hardness        Mortality for:
(1989)            municipalities                            NR                    CVD              M & F: r = 0.55
                                                                                  IHD              M & F: r = +0.50
                                                                                  Stroke           M & F: r = 0.60
Flaten and      Norway, 97 municipalities,      1974–1983   Calcium concentration Mortality for:
Bolviken (1991) all ages                                    0.44–21.7 mg/l        IHD              NR                 NR
                                                                                  Stroke           NR                 NR
                                                            Magnesium             Mortality for:
                                                                                                                                        122 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                                                            concentration         IHD              M: r = +0.33*** F: r = + 0.23*
                                                            0.08–2.64 mg/l        Stroke           M: r = +0.22** F: r = + 0.35**
Gyllerup et al.   Sweden, 259 municipalities 1975–1984      Total hardnessa       Mortality for    Inverse association, with lower
(1991)            (males only), 40–64 years                 54.3–92.5 mg/l        AMI              relevance after adjusting for cold
                                                                                                   climate
                                                            Magnesium              Mortality for   Inverse association, with lower
                                                            concentration          AMI             relevance after adjusting for cold
                                                            NR                                     climate
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                        Drinking-water        CVD or stroke
Reference         population age               Period      parameters            mortality        Results
Rylander et al.   Sweden, 27 municipalities,   1969–1978   Total hardnessa       Mortality for:
(1991)            45–64 years                              14.32–370.53 mg/l     IHD              M: r = 0.60*** F: r = 0.45**
                                                                                 Stroke           M: r = 0.48*   F: r = 0.37*
                                                           Calcium concentration Mortality for:
                                                           3.4–131 mg/l          IHD              M: r = 0.47**   F: r = 0.41*
                                                                                 Stroke           M: r = 0.52*    F: r = 0.32
                                                           Magnesium             Mortality for:
                                                           concentration         IHD              M: r = 0.62**   F: r = 0.45**
                                                           0.57–15.0 mg/l        Stroke           M: r = 0.16     F: r = 0.49
                                                                         b
Nerbrand et al.   Sweden, 76 municipalities,   1969–1983   Total hardness        Mortality for:
(1992)            45–74 years                              1–216 mg/l            IHD              M***             F*
                                                                                 Stroke           M***             F***
                                                           Calcium concentration Mortality for:
                                                           NR                    IHD              M**              F***
                                                                                                                                    Epidemiological studies 123




                                                                                 Stroke           M                F***
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                       Drinking-water        CVD or stroke
Reference         population age            Period        parameters            mortality        Results
                                                          Magnesium             Mortality for:
                                                          concentration         IHD              M                  F
                                                          NR                    Stroke           M                  F
Nerbrand et al.                                           Total hardnessb       Prevalence of:
(1992) (contd)                                            36.3–315.0 mg/l       IHD              M: not significant association
                                                                                                 after adjusting for major risk
                                                                                                 factors
                                                          Calcium concentration Prevalence of:
                                                          NR                    IHD              M: not significant association
                                                                                                 after adjusting for major risk
                                                                                                 factors
                                                                                                                                    124 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Yang et al.       Taiwan, 227 municipalities, 1981–1990   Total hardnessa       Mortality for:   RR (95% CI) adjusted for age and
(1996)            all ages                                                      IHD              urbanization:
                                                          <75 mg/l                               1.096 (1.084–1.108)*
                                                          75–150 mg/l                            1.045 (1.032–1.058)*
                                                          >150 mg/l                              Reference
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                       Drinking-water          CVD or stroke
Reference         population age            Period        parameters              mortality       Results
Maheswaran et England, 305 areas, >45       1990–1992     Calcium concentration   Mortality for   RR (95% CI) for 4-fold increase
al. (1999)        years                                   5–215 mg/l              AMI             in calcium and magnesium
                                                          Magnesium                               concentration in drinking-water,
                                                          concentration                           adjusted for age and SES:
                                                          2–111 mg/l                              Ca: 0.99 (0.94–1.05)
                                                                                                  Mg: 1.01 (0.96–1.06)
Sauvant and     France, Puy de Dôme           1988–1992   Total hardness        Mortality for:
Pepin (2000)    Department, 52 districts, all             NR                    IHD               M: r = 0.33* F: r = 0.18
                ages                                                            Stroke            M: r = 0.32* F: r = 0.34**
                                                                                CVD               M: r = 0.34** F: r = 0.37**
Marque et al.   France south-west, 69       1990–1996     Calcium concentration Mortality for:    M & F: RR (95% CI) for highest
(2003)          areas, >65 years                          94–146 mg/l                             vs lowest tertile adjusted for age:
                                                                                CVD               0.90 (0.84–0.96)**
                                                                                IHD               0.90 (0.84–0.97)**
                                                                                Stroke            0.86 (0.77–0.96)*
                                                          Magnesium             Mortality for:    M & F: RR (95% CI) for highest
                                                                                                                                        Epidemiological studies 125




                                                          concentration                           vs lowest tertile adjusted for age:
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                       Drinking-water    CVD or stroke
Reference         population age               Period     parameters        mortality          Results
Marque et al.                                             11–34 mg/l        CVD                0.93 (0.86–1.01)
(2003) (contd)                                                              IHD                0.96 (0.87–1.05)
                                                                            Stroke             0.92 (0.80–1.06)
Miyake and Iki    Japan, 44 municipalities, all 1995      Total hardnessa   Mortality for      RR (95% CI) adjusted for age,
(2003)            ages                                                      stroke             sex, SES, health care status:
                                                          <46.5 mg/l                           Reference
                                                          46.5–51.9 mg/l                       0.97 (0.91–1.03)
                                                          >51.9 mg/l                           0.93 (0.84–1.02)
Nerbrand et al.   Sweden, 2 municipalities in 1989–1998   West              Mortality for:c    Mortality rates:
(2003)            the west and east, 40–59                Ca: 8.8 mg/l      IHD                M: 21/1000       F: 5/1000
                                                                                                                                  126 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                  years                                   Mg: 0.74 mg/l     CVD                M: 31/1000       F: 11/1000
                                                          East              Mortality for: c
                                                          Ca: 66 mg/l       IHD                M: 10/1000 F:   M: 20/1000 F:
                                                          Mg: 4.1 mg/l      CVD                2/1000          6/1000
                                                                                               RR (West/East) adjusted for age:
                                                                                               IHD = M: 2.03**** F: 2.56****
                                                                                               CVD = M: 1.56**** F: 1.71****
Table 10.4 (continued)
                  Country, area and                            Drinking-water          CVD or stroke
Reference         population age                Period         parameters              mortality           Results
Kousa et al.      Finland, whole country        1983, 1988     Total hardnessa (mg/l): Incidence of        Age standardized incidence per
(2004)            (males only), 35–74 years     and 1993                               AMI per year        100 000
                                                               <30.6                                       562.1*
                                                               30.6–93.08                                  469.5*
                                                               >93.08                                      437.6*
                                                                                                           Overall effect: 1% reduction of
                                                                                                           mortality for an increase of 20
                                                                                                           mg/l of total hardness
AMI, acute myocardial infarction; Ca, calcium; CI, confidence interval; CVD, cardiovascular diseases; F, females; IHD, ischaemic heart
diseases; M, males; Mg, magnesium; NR, not reported; r, correlation coefficient; RR, relative risk; SES, socioeconomic status
* P < 0.05; ** P < 0.01; *** P < 0.001; **** P < 0.000 01; otherwise, P > 0.05; P < 0.10 for Masironi et al. (1979)
a
   Total hardness in mg/l of calcium carbonate (CaCO3).
b
   Total hardness expressed as mg/l of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) estimated by authors.
c
   Study of 207 inhabitants found positive association for calcium and systolic blood pressure; inverse association for calcium in drinking-
                                                                                                                                               Epidemiological studies 127




   water and low-density lipoprotein and total cholesterol; no association for magnesium and major cardiovascular disease risk factors.
128 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




10.3.3 Epidemiological studies published after 1978: case–
       control studies
   Associations between cardiovascular disease mortality and calcium or
magnesium in drinking-water were investigated in Finland, Taiwan, China, and
Sweden (Table 10.5) (Luoma et al. 1983; Rubenowitz et al. 1996, 1999, 2000;
Yang 1998; Yang and Chiu 1999; Rosenlund et al. 2005). Five of the seven
studies (Luoma et al. 1983; Rubenowitz et al. 1996, 2000; Yang 1998; Yang
and Chiu 1999) found a statistically significant inverse association between
magnesium levels in drinking-water and mortality risks for acute myocardial
infarction, stroke or hypertension; one study found a significant inverse associ-
ation between acute myocardial infarction and both calcium and magnesium
levels (Rubenowitz et al. 1999). Investigators considered major cardiovascular
disease risk factors in two studies (Rubenowitz et al. 2000; Rosenlund et al.
2005); these were the only studies that found no significant association with
either mineral.

10.3.4 Epidemiological studies published after 1978: cohort
       studies
Neither of the two cohort studies (Punsar and Karvonen 1979; Comstock et al.
1980) considered major cardiovascular disease risk factors (Table 10.6). Punsar
and Karvonen (1979) conducted a 15-year follow-up of 1711 men resident in
two rural areas of Finland; all used private well water. Mortality due to coronary
heart disease was almost twice (14.7% vs 8.7%) as high in the area with lower
drinking-water magnesium. Among 1126 men who submitted a household water
sample for analysis, those who died of coronary heart disease had significantly
lower mean levels of drinking-water magnesium compared with those alive at
the end of the study.
   In Washington County, Maryland, USA, Comstock et al. (1980) found no
consistent association between water hardness and cardiovascular disease
mortality. Water samples from 1569 households were analysed for total hard-
ness. An analysis that accounted for socioeconomic characteristics and cigarette
smokers showed no significant trend of cardiovascular disease mortality with
water hardness. A reduced risk of mortality for arteriosclerotic heart disease was
found in men but not women.
Table 10.5. Case–control studies on the relationship between cardiovascular diseases and hardness and/or calcium/magnesium concentrations
of drinking-water
                                                                      Drinking-water
                Country, area,                                        parameters (years of
Reference       year              Population              Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Luoma et al.    Finland; south-   58 males with AMI,      37–64       Ca concentration       OR unadjusted:        OR unadjusted:
(1983)          eastern region;   alive or dead (cases)               (1974–1975)            Hospital controls     Population controls
                1974–1975         58 males (hospital                  <16 mg/l               0.73 (0.22–1.99)      0.56 (0.25–1.28)
                                  controls)                           16–18 mg/l             0.77 (0.30–1.91)      1.07 (0.48–2.42)
                                  50 males (population                19–20 mg/l             0.91 (0.35–2.36)      1.64 (0.73–3.85)
                                  controls)
                                                                      >20 mg/l               Reference             Reference
                                                                      Mg concentration       OR unadjusted:        OR unadjusted:
                                                                      (1974–1975)            Hospital controls     Population controls
                                                                      <1.2 mg/l              2.00 (0.69–6.52)      4.67 (1.30–25.32)*
                                                                      1.2–1.5 mg/l           1.11 (0.41–3.10)      2.29 (0.88–6.58)
                                                                      1.6–3.0 mg/l           1.00 (0.36–3.08)      1.63 (0.62–4.52)
                                                                                                                                            Epidemiological studies 129




                                                                      >3.0 mg/l              Reference             Reference
Table 10.5 (continued)
                                                                 Drinking-water
              Country, area,                                     parameters (years of
Reference     year              Population           Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Rubenowitz et Southern          854 males dead for   50–69       Ca concentration       OR age-adjusted:
al. (1996)    Sweden, 17        AMI (cases)                      (1982–1989)
              municipalities;   989 males dead for               <34 mg/l               Reference
              1982–1989         cancer (controls)                34–45 mg/l             0.88 (0.65–1.19)
                                                                 46–81 mg/l             0.84 (0.64–1.10)
                                                                 82 mg/l               1.06 (0.82–1.38)
                                                                 Mg concentration       OR age-adjusted:
                                                                 (1982–1989)
                                                                 <3.6 mg/l              Reference
                                                                                                              130 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                                                                 3.6–6.8 mg/l           0.88 (0.66–1.16)
                                                                 6.9–9.7 mg/l           0.70 (0.53–0.93)*
                                                                 9.8 mg/l              0.65 (0.50–0.84)*
Table 10.5 (continued)
                                                                Drinking-water
               Country, area,                                   parameters (years of
Reference      year             Population          Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Yang (1998)    Taiwan, China,   17 133 males and    50–69       Ca concentration       OR adjusted for age and sex:
               252              females dead from               (1990)
               municipalities   stroke (cases)
                                                                <24.4 mg/l             Reference
               with single      17 133 males and
               water source;                                    24.4–42.3 mg/l         1.5 (0.99–1.11)
                                females dead from
               1989–1993        other causes,                   42.4–81.0 mg/l         0.95 (0.88–1.01)
                                excluding CVD                   Mg concentration       OR adjusted for age and sex:
                                (controls)                      (1990)
                                                                <7.3 mg/l              Reference
                                                                7.4–13.4 mg/l          0.75 (0.65–0.85)*
                                                                13.5–41.3 mg/l         0.60 (0.52–0.70)*
Rubenowitz et Southern          378 females dead    50–69       Ca concentration       OR adjusted for age and Mg:
al. (1999)    Sweden, 16        from AMI (cases)                (1982–1983)
              municipalities;   1368 females dead               31 mg/l               Reference
              1982–1983         from cancer
                                                                32–45 mg/l             0.61 (0.39–0.94)*
                                (controls)
                                                                46–69 mg/l             0.71 (0.49–1.02)
                                                                                                                      Epidemiological studies 131




                                                                70 mg/l               0.66 (0.47–0.94)*
Table 10.5 (continued)
                                                                    Drinking-water
                Country, area,                                      parameters (years of
Reference       year             Population             Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Rubenowitz et                                                       Mg concentration       OR adjusted for age and Ca:
al. (1999)                                                          (1982–1983)
(contd)                                                             3.4 mg/l              Reference
                                                                    3.5–6.7 mg/l           1.08 (0.78–1.49)
                                                                    6.8–9.8 mg/l           0.93 (0.64–1.34)
                                                                    9.9 mg/l              0.70 (0.50–0.99)*
Yang and        Taiwan, China,   2336 males and         50–69       Ca concentration       OR adjusted for age, sex, urbanization and
Chiu (1999)     252              females dead from                  (1990)                 Mg:
                municipalities   hypertension (cases)               4.0–11.3 mg/l          Reference
                                                                                                                                        132 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                with single      2336 males and                                            1.23 (0.94–1.62)
                water source;                                       11.4–30.0 mg/l
                                 females dead from                                         1.32 (0.98–1.78)
                1990–1994        other causes,                      30.1–37.7 mg/l
                                 excluding CVD                      37.8–53.4 mg/l         1.12 (0.83–1.51)
                                                                    53.5–81.0 mg/l         1.26 (0.92–2.02)
Table 10.5 (continued)
                                                                Drinking-water
               Country, area,                                   parameters (years of
Reference      year             Population          Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Yang and                        (controls)                      Mg concentration       OR adjusted for age, sex, urbanization and
Chiu (1999)                                                     (1990)                 Ca:
(contd)                                                         1.5–3.8 mg/l           Reference
                                                                3.9–8.2 mg/l           0.73 (0.57–0.93)***
                                                                8.3–11.1 mg/l          0.66 (0.50–0.87)***
                                                                11.2–16.3 mg/l         0.67 (0.50–0.89)***
                                                                16.4–41.3 mg/l         0.63 (0.47–0.84)***
Rubenowitz et Southern          263 males and       50–74       Ca concentration       OR adjusted for age and Mg (highest vs
al. (2000)    Sweden, 18        females dead from               (1996)                 lowest quartiles)
              municipalities;   AMI (cases)                     0–235 mg/l             M & F: 0.89 (0.59–1.33)
              1994–1996         258 males and                   Mg concentration       OR adjusted for age and Ca (highest vs lowest
                                females dead from                                      quartiles)
                                other causes                    (1996)
                                                                0–44 mg/l              M & F: 0.64 (0.42–0.97)*
                                                                                                                                       Epidemiological studies 133




                                (controls)
Table 10.5 (continued)
                                                            Drinking-water
               Country, area,                               parameters (years of
Reference      year        Population           Age (years) analysis)              Odds ratio (95% CI)
Rubenowitz et              823 males and        50–74       Ca concentration       OR adjusted for age and Mg (highest vs
al. (2000)                 females surviving                (1996)                 lowest quartiles)
(contd)                    after an AMI (cases)                                    M & F: 0.97 (0.78–1.21)
                                                            0–235 mg/l
                           853 males and
                                                            Mg concentration       OR adjusted for age and Ca (highest vs lowest
                           females without AMI                                     quartiles)
                           (controls)                       (1996)
                                                            0–44 mg/l              M & F: 1.16 (0.93–1.45)
Rosenlund et Sweden; 1992– 497 males and        45–70       Ca intake from tap     OR adjusted for age, gender, smoking,
al. (2005)    1994         females with AMI                 water:                 hypertension, DM, SES, physical activity,
                           (cases)                                                 BMI, job stress (95% CI):
                                                                                                                                   134 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                           677 males and                    <42.4 mg/day           1.00
                           females without AMI              >42.3 mg/day           1.07 (0.62–1.85)
                           (controls)
                                                            Mg intake from tap
                                                            water:
                                                            <6.9 mg/day            1.00
                                                            >6.9 mg/day            1.07 (0.63–1.82)
Table 10.5 (continued)

AMI, acute myocardial infarction; BMI, body mass index; Ca, calcium; CI, confidence interval; CVD, cardiovascular diseases; DM, diabetes
mellitus; F, females; M, males; Mg, magnesium; OR, odds ratio; SES, socioeconomic status
                                                                                                                                           Epidemiological studies 135




* P < 0.05; *** P < 0.001; all others not statistically significant
Table 10.6. Cohort studies of the relationship between cardiovascular diseases and drinking-water hardness and calcium and magnesium
levels
Authors,                                      Age (years)                           Drinking-water
year of       Country and                     at                         Cause of   parameters (years
publication   area            Population      recruitment Period         death      of analysis)        Outcome measure
Punsar and    Finland, two    504 in the      49–59       1959–1974      CHD,       Mg concentrationa   West Finland:
Karvonen      rural regions   west, 622 in                (15 years of   others     (1970)
(1979)        (West           the east area               follow-up)                12.7 mg/l           Died of CHD (n = 49/504;
              Finland and     with                                                                      9.7%)
              East            drinking-
              Finland)        water Mg                                              14.2 mg/l           Died of other causes (n =
                              data (M)                                                                  89/504; 17.7%)
                                                                                    13.6 mg/l           Survivors (n = 366/504 =
                                                                                                        72.6%)
                                                                                                        East Finland:
                                                                                                                                       136 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




                                                                                    3.3 mg/l            Died of CHD (n = 95/622;
                                                                                                        15.3%)
                                                                                    3.2 mg/l            Died of other causes (n =
                                                                                                        100/622; 16.1%)
Table 10.6 (continued)
Authors,                                   Age (years)                                Drinking-water
year of       Country and                  at                            Cause of     parameters (years
publication area            Population     recruitment Period            death        of analysis)             Outcome measure
Punsar and                                                                            3.6 mg/l                 Survivors (n = 427/622 =
Karvonen                                                                                                       68.6%)
(1979)                                                                                                         RR for east vs west:
(contd)                                                                                                        CHD death = 15.3%/9.7%;
                                                                                                               1.6*
 Comstock       Washington 30, 534             >25          1963–1975        AHD        Water hardness: 0                         RR:
 et al. (1980) County,         (M & F)                      (12 years of                vs 200 mg/l of         M: 7+ yearsb       0.69
                Maryland,                                   follow-up)                  CaCO3                  M: <7 yearsb       0.86
                USA                                                                     (1971)                 F: 7+ yearsb       1.06
                                                                                                               F: <7 yearsb       1.73
AHD = arteriosclerotic heart disease; Ca, calcium; CHD, coronary heart disease; F = females; M = males; Mg, magnesium; RR = relative risk
* P < 0.01 (computed by the authors); otherwise, P > 0.05
a
    Mean concentrations of magnesium in the drinking-water of men who died in the study period or were still alive in 1974.
b
                                                                                                                                            Epidemiological studies 137




    Duration of residence prior to the 1963 census (beginning of the study).
138 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




10.3.5 A meta-analysis of epidemiological studies
In a systematic review of epidemiological studies, Catling et al. (2005) under-
took a meta-analysis of case–control studies. They identified only one case–
control study linking water hardness and deaths from arteriosclerotic cardio-
vascular disease, which found no significant association. In contrast, there were
six case–control studies linking water magnesium and/or calcium with such
deaths. Only one study reported a protective effect of drinking-water calcium on
female mortality from acute myocardial infarction (Rubenowitz et al. 1996). In
contrast, four studies showed a significant protective effect of drinking-water
magnesium against mortality from acute myocardial infarction (Rubenowitz et
al. 1996, 2000), hypertensive disease (Yang and Chiu 1999) and stroke (Yang
1998) for males and females. More recently, another study found no protective
effect from water hardness, magnesium or calcium (Rosenlund et al. 2005).
However, this last study seems to have been conducted in an area with generally
low magnesium in the water, and it is doubtful that there would have been
sufficient people living in high-magnesium drinking-water areas to see an effect,
even if one existed.
    The authors of this systematic review distinguished those case–control study
papers where the outcome was morbidity from those where the outcome was
mortality. It can be seen from Figure 10.2 that the single study of drinking-water
calcium and morbidity does not indicate an association; indeed, this was not
significant in the original study. The four studies that tested the relationship
between drinking-water calcium and mortality from cardiovascular disease also
do not support an association (Figure 10.3). From Figure 10.4, there were two
case–control studies of drinking-water magnesium and cardiovascular morbid-
ity. Taken together, these studies do not support an effect, and both were non-
significant. From Figure 10.5, five case–control studies investigated water mag-
nesium and cardiovascular mortality. Not all of these studies were statistically
significant in themselves, and for some there are issues around inadequate
control for confounding, but all five showed the same inverse trend, especially
at magnesium levels of greater than about 5 mg/l.
    The authors of this review concluded that the identified case–control studies
do not support an association between water hardness or calcium and cardio-
vascular disease morbidity or mortality. In contrast, they concluded that water
magnesium appears to be inversely associated with cardiovascular mortality but
not morbidity (Catling et al. 2005).
    In the light of this observation, the lack of a significant result for the three
cohort studies would not be surprising, given that all three investigated the
association with water hardness only.
                                                                   Epidemiological studies 139




                1.4

                1.2

                1.0
  Odds ratio




                0.8
                                                                   Rosenlund et al. 2005
                0.6

                0.4

                0.2

                 0
                      0     10          20        30        40
                          Calcium concentration (mg/l)

Figure 10.2. Odds ratios of risk of cardiovascular disease in relation to drinking-water
calcium (data from Rosenlund et al. 2005).


                1.4

                1.2

                1.0                                                    Yang & Chiu 1999
  Odds ratios




                0.8                                                    Yang 1998

                0.6                                                    Rubenowitz et al.
                                                                       1996
                0.4                                                    Rubenowitz et al.
                                                                       1999
                0.2

                 0
                      0   20       40        60        80    100
                           Calcium concentration (mg/l)

Figure 10.3. Odds ratios of risk of cardiovascular mortality in relation to drinking-water
calcium (data from Rubenowitz et al. 1996, 1999; Yang 1998; Yang and Chiu 1999).
140 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




               1.6

               1.4
               1.2
  Odds ratio




               1.0                                                   Rosenlund et al. 2005
               0.8
                                                                     Rubenowitz et al.
               0.6                                                   2000

               0.4

               0.2

                0
                     0          5           10             15
                         Magnesium concentration (mg/l)

Figure 10.4. Odds ratios of risk of cardiovascular disease in relation to drinking-water
magnesium (data from Rubenowitz et al. 2000; Rosenlund et al. 2005).


               1.4

               1.2
                                                                        Rubenowitz et al.
                                                                        2000
               1.0
                                                                        Yang & Chiu 1999
  Odds ratio




               0.8
                                                                        Yang 1998
               0.6
                                                                        Rubenowitz et al.
                                                                        1996
               0.4
                                                                        Rubenowitz et al.
                                                                        1999
               0.2

                0
                     0      5       10      15      20          25
                          Magnesium concentration (mg/l)

Figure 10.5. Odds ratios of risk of cardiovascular mortality in relation to drinking-water
magnesium (data from Rubenowitz et al. 1996, 1999, 2000; Yang 1998; Yang and Chiu
1999).
                                                                Epidemiological studies 141




10.3.6 Conclusions
Many ecological studies report an inverse (i.e. protective) association between
cardiovascular disease mortality and water hardness, calcium or magnesium
levels; however, results are not consistent. Various analytical studies report a
reduction in cardiovascular disease mortality risk with increasing magnesium
levels in drinking-water, but there is little evidence for an association with water
hardness or calcium levels.
   In conclusion, the epidemiological evidence for the water hardness–
cardiovascular disease hypothesis is still not proven. However, at present, the
balance of epidemiological evidence supports the link between magnesium and
cardiovascular mortality. Such an association is consistent with evidence of the
cardiovascular effects of magnesium deprivation and of inadequate magnesium
in the diets of people from developing countries, as discussed elsewhere in this
book.
   Information from toxicological, dietary and epidemiological studies supports
the hypothesis that a low intake of magnesium may increase the risk of dying
from, and possibly developing, cardiovascular disease or stroke. Thus, not
removing magnesium from drinking-water, or in certain situations increasing
the magnesium intake from water, may be beneficial, especially for populations
with an insufficient dietary intake of the mineral.
   This raises a significant policy issue. How strong does the epidemiological and
other evidence need to be before society acts to reduce a potential public health
threat rather than await further evidence that such a threat is real? Such a decision is
a political rather than a purely public health issue. There is a growing consensus
among epidemiologists that the epidemiological evidence, along with clinical and
nutritional evidence, is already strong enough to suggest that new guidance should
be issued.


10.4      REFERENCES
Beaglehole, R., Bonita, R. and Kjellstrom, T. (1993) Basic Epidemiology. World Health
     Organization, Geneva, pp. 71–81.
Calderon, R.L. and Craun, G.F. (2005) Water hardness and cardiovascular disease: A
     review of the epidemiological studies, 1957–78. In Nutrients in Drinking Water,
     World Health Organization, Geneva, pp. 116–126 (http://www.who.int/
     water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Catling, L., Abubakar, I., Lake, I., Swift, L. and Hunter, P. (2005) Review of Evidence for
     Relationship between Incidence of Cardiovascular Disease and Water Hardness.
     Final report for contract DWI/70/2/176, University of East Anglia and Drinking
     Water     Inspectorate,     United      Kingdom      (http://www.dwi.gov.uk/research/
     Water%20hardness%20final%20report1.pdf).
142 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Comstock, G. (1979a) Water hardness and cardiovascular diseases. Am. J. Epidemiol.
      110(4), 375–400.
Comstock, G. (1979b) The association of water hardness and cardiovascular diseases: An
      epidemiological review and critique. In Geochemistry of Water in Relation to
      Cardiovascular Disease, National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC, pp. 48–
      68.
Comstock, G.W., Cauthen, G.M. and Helsing, K.J. (1980) Water hardness at home and
      deaths from arteriosclerotic heart disease in Washington County, Maryland. Am. J.
      Epidemiol. 112, 209–216.
Enterline, P. and Stewart, W. (1956) Geographic patterns in deaths from coronary heart
      disease. Public Health Rep. 71, 849–855.
Flaten, T.P. and Bolviken, B. (1991) Geographical associations between drinking water
      chemistry and the mortality and morbidity of cancer and some other diseases in
      Norway. Sci. Total Environ. 102, 75–100.
Greenland, S. and Robins, J. (1994a) Invited commentary: ecologic studies — biases,
      misconceptions, and counter examples. Am. J. Epidemiol. 139, 747–760.
Greenland, S. and Robins, J. (1994b) Accepting the limits of ecologic studies. Am. J.
      Epidemiol. 139, 769–771.
Grillo, O.C., Scoglio, M.E. and Di Pietro, A. (1989) Durezza dell’acqua potabile e
      mortalità per malattie cardiovascolari. Riv. Ital. Ig. 49, 174–183 (in Italian).
Gyllerup, S., Lanke, J., Lindholm, L.H. and Schersten, B. (1991) Water hardness does
      not contribute substantially to the high coronary mortality in cold regions of
      Sweden. J. Intern. Med. 230, 487–492.
Hill, A. (1965) Environment and disease: association or causation? Proc. R. Soc. Med.
      58, 295–300.
Kousa, A., Moltchanova, E., Viik-Kajander, M., Rytkonen, M., Tuomilehto, J.,
      Tarvainen, T. and Karvonen, M. (2004) Geochemistry of ground water and the
      incidence of acute myocardial infarction in Finland. J. Epidemiol. Community
      Health 58(2), 136–139.
Lacey, R.F. and Shaper, A.G. (1984) Changes in water hardness and cardiovascular death
      rates. Int. J. Epidemiol. 13, 18–24.
Leary, W.P., Reyes, A.J., Lockett, C.J., Arbuckle, D.D. and Van der Byl, K. (1983)
      Magnesium and deaths ascribed to ischaemic heart disease in South Africa. A
      preliminary report. S. Afr. Med. J. 64, 775–776.
Leoni, V., Fabiani, L. and Ticchiarelli, L. (1985) Water hardness and cardiovascular
      mortality rate in Abruzzo, Italy. Arch. Environ. Health 40, 274–278.
Luoma, H., Aromaa, A., Helminem, S., Murtomaa, H., Kiviluoto, L., Punsar, S. and
      Knekt, P. (1983) Risk of myocardial infarction in Finnish men in relation to
      fluoride, magnesium and calcium concentration in drinking water. Acta Med. Scand.
      213, 171–176.
Maheswaran, R., Morris, S., Falconer, S., Grossinho, A., Perry, I., Wakefield, J. and
      Elliott, P. (1999) Magnesium in drinking water supplies and mortality from acute
      myocardial infarction in north west England. Heart 82, 455–460.
Marque, S., Jacqmin-Gadda, H., Dartigues, J.F. and Commenges, D. (2003) Cardio-
      vascular mortality and calcium and magnesium in drinking water: An ecological
      study in elderly people. Eur. J. Epidemiol. 18, 305–309.
Masironi, R., Pisa, Z. and Clayton, D. (1979) Myocardial infarction and water hardness
      in the WHO myocardial infarction registry network. Bull. World Health Organ. 57,
      291–299.
                                                               Epidemiological studies 143




Miyake, Y. and Iki, M. (2003) Ecological study of water and cerebrovascular mortality in
     Japan. Arch. Environ. Health 58, 163–166.
Monarca, S., Donato, F. and Zerbini, M. (2005) Drinking water hardness and cardio-
     vascular diseases: A review of the epidemiological studies 1979–2004. In Nutrients
     in Drinking Water, World Health Organization, Geneva, pp. 127–147
     (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Monarca, S., Donato, F., Zerbini, I., Calderon, R.L. and Craun, G.F. (2006) Review of
     epidemiological studies on drinking water hardness and cardiovascular diseases.
     Eur. J. Cardiovasc. Prev. Rehabil. 13(4), 495–506.
Monson, R. (1990) Occupational Epidemiology, 2nd edn. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL,
     pp. 1–291.
Nerbrand, C., Svardsudd, K., Ek, J. and Tibblin, G. (1992) Cardiovascular mortality and
     morbidity in seven counties in Sweden in relation to water hardness and geological
     settings. Eur. Heart J. 13, 721–727.
Nerbrand, C., Agreus, L., Lenner, R.A., Nyberg, P. and Svardsudd, K. (2003) The
     influence of calcium and magnesium in drinking water and diet on cardiovascular
     risk factors in individuals living in hard and soft water areas with differences in
     cardiovascular mortality. BMC Public Health 3, 21–29.
Piantadosi, S. (1994) Invited commentary: ecologic biases. Am. J. Epidemiol. 139, 71–
     64.
Pocock, S.J., Shaper, A.G., Cook, D.G., Packham, R.F., Lacey, R.F., Powell, P. and
     Russell, P.F. (1980) British Regional Heart Study: geographic variation in cardio-
     vascular mortality, and the role of water quality. Br. Med. J. 280(6226), 1243–1249.
Poole, C. (1994) Editorial: ecologic analysis as outlook and method. Am. J. Public
     Health 84, 715–716.
Punsar, S. and Karvonen, M.J. (1979) Drinking water quality and sudden death:
     observations from West and East Finland. Cardiology 64(1), 24–34.
Rockett, I. (1994) Population and health: An introduction to epidemiology. Popul. Bull.
     49(3), 11.
Rosenlund, M., Berglind, N., Hallqvist, J., Bellander, T. and Bluhm, G. (2005) Daily
     intake of magnesium and calcium from drinking water in relation to myocardial
     infarction. Epidemiology 16(4), 570–576.
Rothman, K. (1986) Modern Epidemiology. Little, Brown and Company, Boston, MA,
     pp. 7–21.
Rubenowitz, E., Axelsson, G. and Rylander, R. (1996) Magnesium in drinking water and
     death from acute myocardial infarction. Am. J. Epidemiol. 143(5), 456–462.
Rubenowitz, E., Axelsson, G. and Rylander, R. (1999) Magnesium and calcium in
     drinking water and death from acute myocardial infarction in women. Epidemiology
     10(1), 31–36.
Rubenowitz, E., Molin, I., Axelsson, G. and Rylander, R. (2000) Magnesium in drinking
     water in relation to morbidity and mortality from acute myocardial infarction.
     Epidemiology 11(4), 416–421.
Rylander, R., Bonevik, H. and Rubenowitz, E. (1991) Magnesium and calcium in drink-
     ing water and cardiovascular mortality. Scand. J. Work Environ. Health 17, 91–94.
Sauvant, M.P. and Pepin, D. (2000) Geographic variation of the mortality from cardio-
     vascular disease and drinking water in a French small area (Puy de Dome). Environ.
     Res. 84, 219–227.
144 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Scassellati Sforzolini, G., Damiani, P., Romoli, R., Pasquini, R. and Conti, R. (1979)
     Correlazione epidemiologica tra qualità delle acque potabili e mortalità per malattie
     del sistema circolatorio. Ig. Mod. 4, 3–35 (in Italian).
Smith, W.C. and Crombie, I.K. (1987) Coronary heart disease and water hardness in
     Scotland. Is there a relationship? J. Epidemiol. Community Health 41, 227–228.
WHO (2005) Nutrients in Drinking Water. World Health Organization, Geneva, 186 pp.
     (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Yang, C.Y. (1998) Calcium and magnesium in drinking water and risk of death from
     cerebrovascular disease. Stroke 29(2), 411–414.
Yang, C.Y. and Chiu, H.F. (1999) Calcium and magnesium in drinking water and the risk
     of death from hypertension. Am. J. Hypertens. 12, 894–899.
Yang, C.Y., Chiu, J.F., Chiu, H.F., Wang, T.N., Lee, C.H. and Ko, Y.C. (1996) Relation-
     ship between water hardness and coronary mortality in Taiwan. J. Toxicol. Environ.
     Health 49, 1–9.
Zielhuis, R.L. and Haring, B.J. (1981) Water hardness and mortality in the Netherlands.
     Sci. Total Environ. 18, 35–45.
11


Alternative hypotheses
and knowledge gaps
J.K. Fawell




11.1 INTRODUCTION
A number of issues surround the evidence concerning the potential impact of
“hard water” on public health. These involve alternative interpretations of the
data and consideration of whether the consumption of drinking-water containing
high or low total dissolved solids (TDS) is a related or separate question
(Vajpeyee 2006). There are also other important practical issues relating to the
supply of desalinated water, which is an increasingly important source of
drinking-water. In the future, the same issues will arise with consideration of
expanded indirect or possibly even direct reuse of wastewater that has been
treated by reverse osmosis. Finally, there are also practical problems related to
the use of water softeners, which can play an important role in reducing lime
scale and energy costs.
146 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




11.2 ALTERNATIVE INTERPRETATIONS AND
     MECHANISMS RELATING TO THE HEALTH
     EFFECTS OF HIGH-MINERAL DRINKING-WATER
While there are numerous ecological and a few analytical epidemiological
studies of the negative (beneficial) association between calcium and/or mag-
nesium in drinking-water and acute myocardial infarction or acute cerebro-
vascular events, they all have limitations, whether they find an association or not
(Calderon and Craun 2005; Catling et al. 2005; Monarca et al. 2005; Calderon
et al. 2006; Hunter 2006). One of the difficulties is that there are usually only
limited data on other water components and related factors that could be con-
founders. There are plausible biochemical mechanisms for calcium and mag-
nesium playing important roles in these and other diseases, and the probability
exists that drinking-water can be an important stable supplementary source of
these minerals in the event of a population being marginal in calcium and
magnesium intake. However, the hypotheses relate to the population level, and
relating the findings specifically to higher-risk individuals still remains an
important knowledge gap, along with the contribution of calcium and mag-
nesium from drinking-water to total daily dietary intake.
    In addition, there are other minerals present in high-TDS water, which is
often hard water. While calcium and/or magnesium generally dominate hard
waters, the levels and ratios can vary significantly. Many other ions will also be
present depending on the source water and the treatment that it has received.
These include a wide range of essential/beneficial elements as well as some that
may have adverse effects at sufficient levels and others that we know relatively
little about. Some examples are vanadium, barium and strontium.
    Studies also need to consider alternative sources of water, their mineral
content and how these might impact on the total intake of tap water. The rise in
the consumption of bottled water in many countries is cited as a possible
confounder, but some countries have a long tradition of drinking bottled water.
Dietary patterns can also be important; for example, although the consumption
of bottled water is high in Italy, so is the consumption of foods that take up a
significant amount of tap water in cooking, in this case pasta and rice. Not only
is this important, but it should not be assumed that bottled water replaces tap
water. In the United Kingdom, there is evidence from surveys commissioned by
the drinking water regulator (Drinking Water Inspectorate) that bottled water is
not replacing tap water to the extent that it is replacing sugary drinks (United
Kingdom Drinking Water Inspectorate 1996).
    It is plausible that drinking-water can be an important contributory source of
the minerals calcium and magnesium if the population is nutritionally marginal.
                                         Alternative hypotheses and knowledge gaps 147




However, it is also possible that if the beneficial effect associated with drinking-
water minerals is indeed confirmed, it could be due to other essential elements
present at low but important concentrations in the drinking-water, rather than to
calcium and magnesium. Studies carried out on water minerals for the United
Kingdom regional heart study from 1977 to 1980 looked at 26 elements and 36
parameters in total. These data were obtained from tap water samples taken
from 1000 homes in over 25 towns with widely differing water hardness. Con-
centrations of many background minerals, not surprisingly, correlated with
calcium and magnesium concentrations (Powell et al. 1987). However, the
strongest correlation was between vanadium and magnesium. Is the key to the
apparent beneficial effects of drinking-water hardness actually another trace
element or group of elements that is correlated with hardness and is acting as a
confounder in the epidemiological studies?
   Many inorganic elements also interact synergistically or antagonistically, and
the presence of one may enhance or reduce the absorption or physiological
activity of another. This can also apply to other substances in food; while
oxalate is known to sequester calcium, it is not clear whether high calcium in
water would reduce the calcium sequestering ability of oxalate during the
cooking process. Could this be an important contributory factor to the beneficial
effects associated with water hardness?


11.3 ALTERNATIVE INTERPRETATIONS AND
     MECHANISMS RELATING TO THE HEALTH
     EFFECTS OF LOW-MINERAL DRINKING-WATER
The most common proposal for an alternative mechanism for the adverse
cardiovascular effects associated with low drinking-water hardness is that soft or
low-TDS water is more aggressive to pipes and can lead to high tap water
concentrations of toxic metals, particularly lead, which is suspected of raising
blood pressure (Vajpeyee 2006). There is, therefore, the basis for a plausible
debate. As indicated above, minerals interact in a number of cases to either
enhance or reduce the absorption of other minerals or elements. Magnesium
and, particularly, calcium are important in this respect, and one possibility is
that low calcium/magnesium levels enhance the gastrointestinal absorption of
toxic metals, such as lead, from all sources.
   While this is apparently plausible, there have been major steps taken to
reduce lead exposure from all sources, not just drinking-water. The fact that a
beneficial effect of calcium and/or magnesium is still being reported from a
country such as Finland (Kousa et al. 2004), which has taken significant steps to
148 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




reduce exposure to lead and other toxic metals, would tend to militate against
the toxic metal theory. However, since the majority of acute myocardial infarc-
tion cases are in older individuals, it is probable that they were exposed to the
higher lead levels prevalent in the 1940s and 1950s. The argument could be
made that this resulted in damage at an early age that was not fully manifest
until later. However, the data on lead and blood pressure would not seem to
support this view. In addition, there have been studies examining changes in
water hardness; where a protective effect of hardness on acute myocardial
infarction is observed, the impact of a change in water hardness seems to be
quite rapid, implying that the mechanism is current rather than historical damage
(Lacey and Shaper 1984).
   In addition, the study of water contaminants and constituents associated with
the British Heart Study and mentioned above (Powell et al. 1987) demonstrated
the large impact of first-draw water, compared with fully flushed samples, on
levels of metals from plumbing. These included lead along with copper, zinc
and nickel. The correlations between metal concentration and the softness of the
water were clear in first-draw samples but not obvious for fully flushed samples.
Since most water that will be consumed will obviously not be first draw, then
the differences in the contribution of metals in soft and hard water will be
significantly reduced.
   While naturally soft water can be significantly more aggressive, the same
concern has been levelled at artificially softened water in which calcium and
magnesium ions are replaced by sodium ions. However, this concern appears to
be without proper foundation (Harrison 2006). There are significant differences
in the characteristics of naturally soft waters and artificially softened waters.
While naturally soft water contains lower TDS, usually has a low pH and often
has an excess of carbon dioxide over alkalinity, this is not true of artificially
softened water. As a consequence, although there is an absence of calcium and
magnesium ions due to their replacement by sodium ions (which could have its
own consequences for some persons), the water is not necessarily aggressive
and would not give rise to increased levels of corrosion products from plumbing
materials. In particular, the level of bicarbonate in artificially softened water is
high, and the buffering capacity of the water is also high.
   There are other possible explanations that are less well supported by evidence
but which have also not been particularly well studied. The first is that soft
waters sometimes have higher levels of humic and fulvic acids from the types of
catchments that are often associated with soft water. These organic acids are
precursors for the formation of a wide range of by-products from the disin-
fection of drinking-water with chlorine. It is also conceivable that the key
contaminants in soft waters could be disinfection by-products. Although the
possible effect of chlorination by-products on heart disease, and acute
                                        Alternative hypotheses and knowledge gaps 149




myocardial infarction in particular, has not been well studied, the limited studies
available do not support this contention. In particular, no plausible mechanism
has been identified, and, like the situation with toxic metals, there have been
substantial efforts made to significantly reduce the concentrations of chlorina-
tion by-products in drinking-water.
   It has been reported from studies in eastern Europe that drinking-water with a
very low mineral content has a negative impact on the gastrointestinal tract
(Kozisek 2005), although no mechanism has been clearly elucidated. Such an
effect could, in theory, change the gastrointestinal absorption of minerals, and/or
toxic metals, from other sources, particularly food. However, there remain a
number of uncertainties relating to the potential for ingestion of low-mineral
water to have an impact on the gastrointestinal tract. While there is a need to
obtain additional data on the actual effect, it remains uncertain whether this
would be an effect on the gastrointestinal tract itself or on the short-term
physiology of the gastrointestinal tract. There are some other important consid-
erations. The studies seem largely to have been carried out under conditions of
exercise and water stress, and this may lead to unusual conditions. For example,
assuming adequate dietary intake of ions and minerals, under such conditions
would rehydration with low-mineral water lead to loss of minerals from the
gastrointestinal mucosa, or would the key be replacement of minerals lost
through sweating and diuresis? Currently there appear to be few studies that
would provide answers or even partial answers, except in relation to sports
medicine, which also provides relatively extreme conditions.


11.4 WHAT IS NEEDED?
The potential for minerals in drinking-water to provide even a small protective
effect with regard to acute myocardial infarction or acute cerebrovascular events
is an important one in view of the number of worldwide deaths from these
causes. However, in order to make the best use of this knowledge and to either
make appropriate interventions or provide information to the public, it is
necessary to determine whether this effect is real and to be much more certain of
the mechanism by which the effect operates. It is, therefore, important that we
have a combination of studies, with a multidisciplinary approach, that include
both clinical and epidemiological investigations.
   Clearly, as there are a substantial number of ecologic epidemiological studies
already available, this is not the way forward. There is, therefore, a need for
more suitable analytical epidemiological studies that have wider objectives.
These studies need to consider the nutritional status of the populations studied in
detail, since this has largely been ignored to date. The studies also need to
150 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




consider the age and risk profiles of the study group, because these have an
impact not only on the incidence of the clinical events under scrutiny, but also
on the mineral nutrition of the individuals within the study population.
   There are also a number of water factors that need to be considered in any
such studies. It is essential that a wider range of elements in water and drinking-
water parameters, such as bicarbonate and organic matter, be taken into
consideration. The concentrations of toxic metals or other metals from plumbing
will vary according to individual buildings; in many countries, however, data
are available that would enable reasonable estimates of exposure to plumbing-
derived metals to be made in conjunction with data on water consumption
habits, such as use of first-draw water for drinking. Alternative sources of fluid
intake are also important, including intake from foods, along with the
mechanism of fluid intake, such as drinking tap water in the form of tea, as
boiling will change the mineral composition to some extent.
   An opportunity exists to study populations who have been using desalinated
water for long periods as a drinking-water source. This opportunity is also likely
to be expanded in the immediate future.
   There are many potential confounders, not least because the disease states
leading to the clinical events are of a multifactorial nature, so the potential for
confounding needs to be considered very seriously.


11.5 PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
There are a number of very important practical and ethical considerations
regarding the information available. Much depends on the weight of the evi-
dence available for a positive effect and the weight of the evidence for the
mechanism by which this effect occurs. Any information and advice concerning
calcium and/or magnesium in drinking-water also need to be placed in the
context of overall dietary intake and sufficiency of mineral intake. However,
any proposal to change current practice will need to gain widespread support
among practitioners and must take into account local sensitivities, political
realities and consumer perception.
   The most important drinking-water-related question involves adding back
minerals removed in desalination or in fresh water treated by reverse osmosis or
ion exchange softening of hard water. It is possible to stabilize desalinated and
reverse osmosis–treated water with regard to corrosion without necessarily
adding significant quantities of calcium and magnesium ions, but the question
arises as to whether calcium and magnesium should be added as part of the
process to potentially produce additional benefits. Although the optimum levels
of these ions remain to be generally agreed, it would seem that there is a strong
argument for taking this approach. One common stabilization approach has been
                                        Alternative hypotheses and knowledge gaps 151




to add lime; another is to add back about 1% of treated source seawater/brackish
water to the desalinated water. This contributes magnesium and other salts. The
primary issue for specific mineral addition is whether there would be additional
costs and whether such costs were significant. The problem of what final con-
centration to aim for has been addressed by Israel in relation to large desalina-
tion projects to provide secure water supplies in a water-stressed region (Adin et
al. 2006). In this case, the decision has been taken to add calcium ions as part of
the process of stabilization. The amount added is 25 mg/l as Ca2+, providing an
additional 50 mg/day of calcium for a 2-litre intake of drinking-water, either as
drinks or in water absorbed into food during cooking. This decision was taken
after consideration of a number of requirements in meeting the desired quality of
water. These include calcium carbonate precipitation potential higher than 3
mg/l, alkalinity higher than 80 mg/l (as calcium carbonate), calcium higher than
80 mg/l (as calcium carbonate; 32 mg/l as Ca2+) and lower than 120 mg/l (as
calcium carbonate; 48 mg/l as Ca2+), pH lower than 8.5 and turbidity lower than
0.5 NTU. These standards will provide water that is closer to the quality of the
limited supplies that the desalination programme will replace.


11.6 SUMMARY
An overview of the current situation is as follows:

    •    A large number, but not all, of epidemiological studies have identified
         apparent negative (beneficial) associations between hardness or cal-
         cium and/or magnesium concentrations and the incidence of ischaemic
         heart disease, but the ecological epidemiological study associations
         tend to be fairly weak. The strongest negative (beneficial) association
         appears to be with magnesium and cardiovascular disease mortality, as
         was borne out by several analytical studies (Yang 1998; Rubenowitz et
         al. 2000).
    •    There are deficiencies in all of the studies, and there needed to be an
         objective evaluation. This has been carried out by Catling et al. (2005).
    •    The benefits of minerals in drinking-water need multidisciplinary con-
         sideration that includes a broader nutritional component.
    •    It appears that because of the variation and the multifactorial nature of
         the health end-points, simple definitive answers are unlikely.
    •    There are a number of significant practical issues that need to be taken
         into account in implementing any findings from this research, and these
         are the impetus for developing better data.
152 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




     •    There is a need to consider whether there should be addition of calcium
          and magnesium ions to desalinated water or water treated by reverse
          osmosis to be used as a drinking-water source as part of the necessary
          process of stabilization. Adverse effects are unlikely, and positive ben-
          efits are possible. There would seem to be adequate evidence to suggest
          that this should be considered on a project-by-project basis, taking into
          account both practicalities and cost; however, it would be helpful to
          provide better advice on the optimum levels to be added.


11.6 REFERENCES
Adin, A., Reifen, R., Lahav, O. and Brenner, A. (2006) Israeli standards for calcium in
     desalinated water: considerations and recommendations. Presented at International
     Symposium on Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–
     26 April 2006, Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington,
     DC.
Calderon, R.L. and Craun, G.F. (2005) Water hardness and cardiovascular disease: A
     review of the epidemiological studies, 1957–78. In Nutrients in Drinking Water,
     World Health Organization, Geneva, pp. 116–126 (http://www.who.int/
     water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Calderon, R., Craun, G., Monarca, S. and Donato, F. (2006) Overview of epidemiologic
     methods, strengths and weaknesses. Presented at International Symposium on
     Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006,
     Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Catling, L., Abubakar, I., Lake, I., Swift, L. and Hunter, P. (2005) Review of Evidence for
     Relationship between Incidence of Cardiovascular Disease and Water Hardness.
     Final report for contract DWI/70/2/176, University of East Anglia and Drinking
     Water       Inspectorate,    United     Kingdom      (http://www.dwi.gov.uk/research/
     Water%20hardness%20final%20report1.pdf).
Harrison, J.F. (2006) Corrosion and soft versus softened water. Presented at International
     Symposium on Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–
     26 April 2006, Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington,
     DC.
Hunter, P. (2006) Findings from the UK systematic review on water hardness and
     cardiovascular mortality and other effects. Presented at International Symposium on
     Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006,
     Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Kousa, A., Moltchanova, E., Viik-Kajander, M., Rytkonen, M., Tuomilehto, J.,
     Tarvainen, T. and Karvonen, M. (2004) Geochemistry of ground water and the
     incidence of acute myocardial infarction in Finland. J. Epidemiol. Community
     Health, 58(2), 136–139.
Kozisek, F. (2005) Health risks from drinking demineralised water. In Nutrients in
     Drinking Water, pp. 148–163, World Health Organization, Geneva (http://
     www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Lacey, R.F. and Shaper, A.G. (1984) Changes in water hardness and cardiovascular death
     rates. Int. J. Epidemiol. 13(1), 18–24.
                                          Alternative hypotheses and knowledge gaps 153




Monarca, S., Donato, F. and Zerbini, M. (2005) Drinking water hardness and cardio-
     vascular diseases: A review of the epidemiological studies 1979–2004. In Nutrients
     in Drinking Water, World Health Organization, Geneva, pp. 127–147
     (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Powell, P., Bailey, R.J. and Jolly, P.K. (1987) Trace Elements in British Tap-water
     Supplies. Report No. PRD 706-M/1, WRc Environment, WRc, Swindon.
Rubenowitz, E., Molin, I., Axelsson, G. and Rylander, R. (2000) Magnesium in drinking
     water in relation to morbidity and mortality from acute myocardial infarction.
     Epidemiology 11, 416–421.
United Kingdom Drinking Water Inspectorate (1996) Tap Water Consumption in
     England and Wales. Findings from the 1995 National Survey. Report No. 10771,
     Foundation for Water Research, Marlow.
Vajpeyee, S.K. (2006) Alternative interpretations of health effects of drinking hard or
     soft water. Presented at International Symposium on Health Aspects of Calcium and
     Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006, Baltimore, MD. International Life
     Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Yang, C.Y. (1998) Calcium and magnesium in drinking water and death from
     cerebrovascular disease. Stroke 29, 411–414.
12


Water production, technical
issues and economics
Perialwar (Regu) Regunathan




12.1 CENTRAL SOFTENING
The issue of having calcium and magnesium in finished drinking-water can be
of importance not only for those water suppliers that utilize desalination proc-
esses, but also for the broader water industry internationally. The Global Water
Research Coalition, as representative of many water-related research institutes
worldwide, has prepared a review on the reasons and criteria for softening and
conditioning (Mons et al. 2007). It recommends that in addition to nutrition,
other health-related and other pertinent aspects should be considered. Both very
soft and very hard water can interact with piping materials, which may
negatively impact the water quality and the integrity of the piping system. It is
therefore important that those other considerations, including the optimal com-
position of piped drinking-water to prevent corrosion and scaling, are taken into
account.
                                    Water production, technical issues and economics 155




   In several countries, softening is sometimes applied centrally (e.g. Nether-
lands, Germany, Belgium, France, United States). Point-of-entry (POE)
softening at the individual residence is the most frequently applied method of
softening. Central softening of drinking-water offers public health and environ-
mental benefits. Moreover, consumer comfort is increased, and there are also
several financial benefits for the consumer.
   Reasons for central softening include:

   •    reduced exposure to trace metals due to reduced corrosion of plumbing
        in the distribution system and household plumbing;
   •    reduced costs because of reduced consumption of detergents and energy
        as well as lessened need to use private softeners;
   •    fewer discharges to the environment (e.g. less detergents, less leaching
        of copper, less salt usage by private softeners, lower use of chemical
        inhibitors); and
   •    better consumer comfort due to better looking clothes, glassware, etc.

   It is essential to arrive at an optimal composition of the drinking-water to be
distributed, and the central aspects of this optimal composition of the public
drinking-water should include:

   •    calcium–carbonic acid equilibrium;
   •    a non-corrosive pH; and
   •    sufficient alkalinity.

    First of all, the water will need to be in calcium–carbonic acid equilibrium.
This means that the Saturation Index (SI) should be close to 0. The preferred
range for SI values is 0.2 < SI < +0.3. In this region of SI, the corrosion of
cement pipe will be minimal, while at the same time the scaling effects will be
low as well. Figure 12.1 presents the bandwidth of the preferred SI range.
    Secondly, to keep the metal-dissolving properties of the water sufficiently
low, the pH needs to be maintained in an optimal range. Upper and lower pH
limits are indicated in Figure 12.1. In hard water, it will not be possible to have
a sufficiently high pH, because the water will then become supersaturated with
respect to calcium carbonate and cause scaling. Allowing for a sufficient pH
increase, together with the need to have water in calcium–carbonic acid equilib-
rium, necessitates the softening of water. On the other hand, it should be recog-
nized that the efficacy of chlorine disinfection decreases as pH increases, and it
is especially weak beyond about pH 7–8.
156 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Figure 12.1. Bandwidth of the optimal composition of drinking-water (TIC, total
inorganic carbon) (from Mons et al. 2006).



12.1.1 Water treatment practices in the Netherlands
Central softening has been applied in the Netherlands since the late 1970s.
Almost all drinking-water in the Netherlands is conditioned to prevent corrosion
and excessive calcium carbonate scaling. In approximately 50% of the produc-
tion capacity of the country, softening is required to achieve the required water
quality. All of the 101 million cubic metres of water supplied annually by
Waternet, the municipal water supply company of Amsterdam, is softened, as
well as large percentages of the water supplies in the other regions of the
country. Naturally soft waters are often treated to add some calcium carbonate
alkalinity by having these waters flow through “marble filters”.
   Softening is mainly done in pellet softeners. It is initiated by the addition of a
base, calcium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide. Calcium carbonate will crystal-
lize at the surface of sand grains present in a fluidized bed. The sand grains will
grow until they are approximately 1 mm in size. These grains are extracted from
the fluidized bed periodically, and new sand grains are added. Several design
variations of the reactors exist, but all are based on the same approach with the
same end goals.
                                       Water production, technical issues and economics 157




    Nanofiltration, a membrane filtration technique, is also applied in several
utilities to produce low-hardness permeate, which is then aerated and mixed
with untreated raw water. The pH is corrected for optimal water composition.
    Table 12.1 gives an overview of the values of hardness-related water quality
parameters attained in these efforts to produce an optimum composition of
water. The pellet softening process reduces the calcium carbonate content in the
water, leaves the magnesium concentration unchanged and increases the sodium
concentration (where sodium hydroxide is used as base). Furthermore, the scal-
ing potential of the water is reduced significantly.
Table 12.1. Water quality parameters of several raw and treated drinking-water supplies
in the Netherlands (from Hofman et al. 2006)
                                Waternet               Vitens            Brabant Water
                                (Leiduin)           (Rodenmors)             (Nuland)
                             Pellet softener,                            Pellet softener,
                                  NaOH              Nanofiltration          Ca(OH)2
  Parameter      Unit        Raw      Treated     Raw       Treated      Raw      Treated
  Ca             mg/l        76.8       43.1      100          53         94         56
  Mg             mg/l        9.7         9.5       6.3         3.5        5.9        6.1
  Total         mmol/l       2.3        1.49       2.8         1.5        2.5        1.6
  hardness
  Na             mg/l         46.6     76.4        34          21          99        77
  Cl             mg/l         87.2     93.5         9          11         153       108
  HCO3          mg/l        197.0    157.2       341         200         308       199
  SO42          mg/l         52.5     52.1        10           5          21        13
  pH                          7.89     8.35        7.0         7.9        7.3       7.8
  TACC90a       mmol/l                 0.32       0.95         0.5                  0.97
  SI                          0.37     0.48       0.2       +0.26        0.04      0.16
  Cu             mg/l         2.21     1.21        4.6         1.3        3.59      1.55
  solubility
  Pb             g/l         166      102        298         168         249       179
  solubility
a
   TACC90 is theoretical calcium carbonate scaling potential at 90 °C.

   One of the main reasons for the introduction of central softening was the
potential environmental and health effects of copper and lead releases.
Significant reductions in copper and lead solubility were experienced by the
processes of softening and nanofiltration, as can be seen in the values for the
three regions shown in Table 12.1. Copper concentrations are below the stan-
dard in the Netherlands of 2 mg/l at the tap. For lead, 90% of the observations
were below the standard of 10 g/l. However, conditioning alone has not been
158 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




sufficient to comply with the lead standard, as 10% of samples showed higher
than the standard level of 10 g/l. Therefore, use of lead pipe materials in the
distribution system has been banned by the authorities. The occasional high lead
values found (up to 200 g/l) are probably due to the presence of old lead pipes
in house installations that are outside of the control of the water supply
company.
    Central softening at large scale is relatively inexpensive. On average, the
costs are approximately  0.02 per cubic metre. When central softening is
applied on a smaller scale, the cost can, however, increase to approximately
 0.25 per cubic metre. An average family (annual use 100 m3) will therefore
pay approximately  2 to  25 extra for their drinking-water due to the
introduction of softening. The overall cost savings, resulting from lower mainte-
nance on warm water equipment, less detergent use, reduced staining of sanitary
fittings and less energy demand, are estimated at about  20 to  300 per year.
Thus, softening has been shown to be economical even in small utilities.
    In the Netherlands, as in some other countries, the amount of naturally very
soft groundwater is a significant portion of the total available drinking-water. In
many cases, marble filtration is applied or milk of lime is added to reach the
optimum water composition and only for conditioning of the drinking-water to
reduce copper and lead solubility. Marble filtration adds only calcium in
drinking-water, not magnesium.
    Marble filtration at large scale is relatively inexpensive: it is estimated at
 0.04 per cubic metre. At smaller scale, the cost increases to approximately 
0.10 per cubic metre. Table 12.2 shows the effect of marble filtration on the
water quality for two cases. From this table, it can be concluded that naturally
very soft water has about the same level of calcium (after marble filtration) as
water softened by central softening. The final water quality depends on the
saturation level of the raw water.
    This section shows that 20 years of experience with central softening and
conditioning of drinking-water in the Netherlands have provided health and
environmental benefits at affordable costs. Also, consumers benefit from having
softened water at their tap because it reduces their overall costs and improves
their comfort.


12.2 BOTTLED WATER AND BEVERAGES
The Codex Alimentarius Commission provides an international consensus on
the quality and composition of bottled/packaged waters of all types. There are
differences between the United States and Europe on some labelling criteria that
apply to packaged water. In the United States, the terms used on the labels of
packaged waters to describe their characteristics, origin and treatment methods
                                       Water production, technical issues and economics 159




are artesian water, groundwater, spring water, mineral water, drinking-water
and purified water, which includes distilled water and deionized water. More
detailed descriptions of these types of bottled water are given in Table 3.1 in
section 3.3.
Table 12.2. Examples of the effect of marble filtration on water composition in the
Netherlands (from Hofman et al. 2006)
                                        Vitens (Eerbeek)      Brabant Water (Vessem)
                                        Marble filtration        Marble filtration
 Parameter                     Unit      Raw      Treated         Raw           Treated
 Ca                            mg/l       21         35            22             60
 Mg                            mg/l       1.8        1.8           5.8            5.8
 Total hardness               mmol/l      0.6        0.9          0.79           1.74
 SO42                         mg/l       11         11            65             65
 HCO3                         mg/l       35         95            40            140
 pH                                       6.6        7.9           6.1            7.7
 SI                                      2.3       0.3          2.7           0.1
 Cu solubility (calculated)    mg/l       1.7        0.4           3.5            2.2
 Pb solubility (calculated)    g/l      324        141           395            169

   In the European Union, there are three main types of bottled waters: natural
mineral water, spring water and prepared water (see also section 3.3). Tradition-
ally, and backed up by centuries of historical background, Europe has developed
the market chiefly based upon natural mineral water. Natural mineral water
means microbiologically wholesome water, originating in an underground water
table or deposit. Natural mineral water can be distinguished from ordinary
drinking-water by its nature, by certain effects and by its original state.
   Natural mineral waters often contain calcium and magnesium as well as other
elements and ions. The composition of a natural mineral water is a characteristic
that cannot be modified; hence, there are no two identical mineral waters.
Moreover, no treatment can be applied to natural mineral water besides the
removal of unstable elements such as iron and manganese, which can further
precipitate in the bottle once the product is in the market.
   Spring waters are waters intended for human consumption in their natural
state and bottled at the source, and they must comply with certain regulatory
provisions for human consumption.
   Prepared waters are waters subjected to specific treatments to make them
compliant with European Union drinking-water regulations, or just to modify
their original composition, mostly for acceptability aspects.
160 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Table 12.3 shows the mineral content in thermal and mineral waters from
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Slovak
Republic and Switzerland. It is important to point out that the highest mineral
contents correspond to thermal (spa) or medicinal waters, which are not always
bottled.
Table 12.3. Mineral content in thermal and mineral waters from various European
countries (from Molas 2006)

                                              Mineral content (mg/l)
                             Maximum                Minimum            Mean
 Ca2+                          28 826                  1.8              549
       2+
 Mg                            5 430                  0.02              177
 Na+                          122 500                  0.8             5 684
 K+                            5 493                   0.2              106
 HCO3–                         9 319                    5               975
   –
 Cl                           198 000                 0.14             9 211
 SO42–                         52 890                  0.9             1 180

   Unlike the mineral waters shown above, concentrations of calcium and
magnesium in European bottled waters usually lie within the following ranges:
Ca2+, 1.5–600 mg/l; Mg2+, 0.5–90 mg/l.
   If and when supplementation is considered appropriate, the key consid-
erations in supplementing minerals in bottled water are:

      •     potential health benefits;
      •     taste;
      •     product stability;
      •     quality of the salts;
      •     industrial procedures; and
      •     cost.
   Consumer taste preferences play a leading role in determining choice of a
mineral water. When the composition is changed, sensory perception also
changes, which may lead to an immediate reaction of acceptance or rejection by
the consumer.
   When considering the addition of salts to a water intended for bottling, the
concentrations that can be added without exceeding the solubility of the salts in
the water at 20 ºC must be calculated so as to prevent precipitation in the bottle.
Solubility can be improved if water is carbonated, as lower pH usually enhances
solubility. Chlorides and sulfates of both calcium and magnesium can be used to
                                   Water production, technical issues and economics 161




supplement bottled water with minerals; their carbonate salts have low solubility
in water at 20 ºC.
    The procedure for adding minerals to water is quite simple. A mother
solution can be prepared in water in a clean reservoir under constant stirring
using the same water that will be in the product. The mother solution can also be
pasteurized. A pump can be used to inject a portion of the mother solution either
directly on-line or to a feed tank maintained under agitation to avoid
precipitation of salts. Water with minerals added is then bottled using
conventional bottling machines.
    To add 20 mg of calcium and 20 mg of magnesium to a specific water, the
cost would rise by US$ 0.002 22 per litre of product (US$ 2.2 per 1000 litres) if
prepared from calcium sulfate and magnesium chloride or by US$ 0.001 98 per
litre of product (US$ 1.98 per 1000 litres) if prepared from calcium chloride and
magnesium sulfate. These costs do not include the costs of electricity and
mixers/pasteurizers.


12.3 IMPACTS ON THE HOME WATER TREATMENT
    INDUSTRY
The point-of-use (POU) or point-of-entry (POE) industry in the United States,
Europe and other regions of the world produces and markets POE softeners and
POU reverse osmosis and distiller units to consumers. These products reduce or
totally remove calcium and magnesium present in the incoming waters. While
the bottled water industry is not traditionally viewed as a part of POU/POE
industry, it is part of the home water provision industry and is often similarly
affected by the same rules or regulations.
   The recommendations of a World Health Organization expert meeting (WHO
2005) were reviewed by the United States and European home water industry
with general concerns and questions due to the potential effects of these recom-
mendations on this industry and its current operations in the marketplace. Each
of the industry groups responded separately to the expert group’s recom-
mendations with its own questions and concerns.
   One important point raised by the POU/POE industry was the difference
between naturally soft or low total dissolved solids (TDS) waters and softened
waters. Many of the epidemiological studies have compared health outcomes of
consuming naturally soft versus hard waters. However, no known study has
compared consumption of hard waters versus softened waters. There are signifi-
cant composition differences between naturally soft waters and softened waters.
162 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Another point pertained to possible benefits of the concurrent removal of
some regulated contaminants by POU/POE treatment methods. Those contam-
inants are present only in trace levels in drinking-waters supplied by the utilities,
as the utilities need to reduce them below Maximum Contaminant Levels or
Maximum Allowable Limits stipulated by the different countries. However, the
levels of these contaminants are usually not at zero, partly because such an
extent of reduction in all the treated waters is usually too expensive. Use of
certified devices in reducing these contaminants from only the water that is
ingested (i.e. drinking-water at the household tap) can possibly further reduce
risks in some cases (principally for “non-threshold chemicals”).
    A POU reverse osmosis membrane system removes almost all the calcium
and magnesium in source waters. If properly maintained, a POU reverse osmo-
sis membrane system with an activated carbon filter can also yield drinking-
water virtually free of many organic and inorganic chemicals of potential
concern. In addition to removing calcium, magnesium and also fluoride, the
membrane barrier can reduce many inorganic and particulate contaminants to
near detection limits, such as arsenic, perchlorate, lead, copper, radium-226/228,
selenium, chromium, turbidity, barium, cadmium, protozoan cysts, TDS,
nitrate/nitrite, sodium and sulfate.
   Similarly, a POU distiller can remove virtually all inorganic chemicals,
including calcium and magnesium, along with volatile and non-volatile organ-
ics. Volatile organics can be reduced by these devices with a good venting
system or by a carbon filter at the outlet of the product water.
   A POE softener is generally considered as an aesthetic device removing
hardness ions, but it can also remove other divalent cations from drinking-
waters. While some softeners are also certified for their ability to remove
barium and radium-226/228, they can also remove copper, cadmium, iron, man-
ganese and other trace-level divalent cations.
   The balancing of the potential beneficial aspects of these devices against the
potential harm of reducing the calcium and/or magnesium and fluoride levels to
below the recommended thresholds in drinking-waters is worthy of consid-
eration.
   Acceptance of the “hard water–cardiovascular disease benefits” hypothesis
by health experts can lead to several different actions by segments of the water
industry as a whole. Some will need to take strong actions, while others may
have a set of options:

   •    Utilities with demineralized waters might be guided to add recom-
        mended levels of calcium and magnesium.
   •    Cities with naturally “soft” water supplies may face a dilemma in the
        form of a conflict between the possible need to add the recommended
                                   Water production, technical issues and economics 163




        levels of calcium and/or magnesium and the economy of such action,
        even if they are not required to do so by their country’s laws. The
        benefit–cost balance of such additions must take into consideration that
        only a small fraction of the water supply that is used as drinking-water
        requires this treatment, but all 100% will end up being treated. Many of
        the cities may not undertake such a treatment simply for economic
        reasons. However, consumers may not be satisfied and may choose
        other means, such as fortified bottled water.
   •    The POU/POE industry would need to re-evaluate how to realign some
        of its products and activities.
   •    The bottled water industry would have the opportunity to augment its
        product lines with mineralized waters, as some are already doing.

   Softener manufacturers and installers may choose to adopt a variety of
approaches, even though none of them is desirable in their point of view,
although some are already practised:

   •    a separate hard water line to the kitchen sink;
   •    a small bypass to achieve target hardness levels in the cold water;
   •    a new POU mineralization unit under the kitchen sink with a separate
        tap; and
   •    hot water softening only in lower-hardness areas.

   The POU industry might also develop products capable of adding target
amounts of calcium and/or magnesium to drinking-waters of all kinds. These
products can be used in naturally “soft” waters to add minerals just to the
drinking-water used in households. The same devices can also be used as add-on
devices after the POU reverse osmosis/distiller systems or as a unit under the
sink to add minerals to softened water. These products may, however, present a
challenge due to the intermittent nature of their use and the tendency of these
chemical compounds to solidify and not yield consistent concentrations of
minerals in the effluent waters.
   The cost of such a product will also be dependent to some degree on the cost
of the minerals used in the devices, the quantity of the mineral addition and the
mechanism used to introduce minerals into the waters. The unit cost of the
minerals is low and has been estimated at US$ 0.002 per gram of calcium and
US$ 0.004 per gram of magnesium. Assuming addition of 30 mg of calcium and
10 mg of magnesium, then the cost per litre of water consumed will be only
US$ 0.0001.
164 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   In spite of the technical feasibility, many in the home water treatment
industry are anxiously monitoring the possible outcome of the discussions,
because they still have several concerns, including the following:

   •    although not health experts, some are not convinced of the scientific
        validity of the conclusions;
   •    the issue of differences between “soft” and softened water;
   •    the public’s potential negative perceptions about all types of drinking-
        waters with lower hardness levels;
   •    stigma on the industry associated with removing elements beneficial to
        the consumers;
   •    potential uninformed regulatory response in different countries and
        regions; and
   •    concern about potential uneven treatment of or impact on some
        segments of the water industry compared with others.

   Their concerns should be kept in mind in the public health guidance
deliberations to make sure that the most beneficial and scientifically supportable
conclusions are made.


12.4 SUMMARY
Properly softened waters can have public health, economic, environmental and
customer comfort benefits. Controlled central water softening as practised in the
Netherlands and some other locations appears to reduce lead and copper
corrosion, increase the pH and reduce the potential for scaling in cold and hot
water plumbing components. Their practice leaves a certain amount of calcium
in treated waters, but has no impact on magnesium concentrations. Additionally,
marble filtration can be used to increase pH, alkalinity and calcium
concentrations in naturally soft waters (but without an increase of magnesium
concentrations).
    Addition of calcium and magnesium to bottled water is a process that can be
easily undertaken with only minor effects on costs. Taste preferences will
determine consumer choices of products probably more than other factors,
although a segment would be expected to opt for mineral fortified waters.
    Addition of calcium and magnesium after the POU/POE installations or to
naturally soft waters in a home presents some technical difficulties that would
need to be resolved. Some manufacturers have already developed some products
to add calcium and magnesium to water. The differences between naturally
“soft” waters and softened waters have been pointed out. So, while health
                                     Water production, technical issues and economics 165




studies comparing soft and hard waters may be valid, they may not apply to
softened waters because of their different compositions (i.e. higher sodium and
TDS and probably lower corrosivity). There is a need to balance the potential
beneficial aspects of those POU and POE devices that concurrently remove
trace contaminants against the potential negative effects of reducing the calcium
and/or magnesium and fluoride levels to below the recommended levels in
drinking-waters.


12.5 REFERENCES
Hofman, J., Kramer, O., van der Hoek, J.P., Nederlof, M. and Groenendijk, M. (2006)
    Twenty years of experience with central softening in Netherlands: Water quality,
    environmental benefits, and costs. Presented at International Symposium on Health
    Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006,
    Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Molas, J. (2006) Feasibility and costs of mineral supplementation of bottled water and
    beverages. Presented at International Symposium on Health Aspects of Calcium and
    Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006, Baltimore, MD. International Life
    Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Mons, M.N., van Dijk, J.C., Gatel, D., Hesse, S., Hofman, J.A.M.H. and Nguyen, M.-L.
    (2006) Drinking water hardness — Reasons and criteria for softening and the
    optimal composition of drinking water. Presented at International Symposium on
    Health Aspects of Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking Water, 24–26 April 2006,
    Baltimore, MD. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, DC.
Mons, M.N., van Dijk, J.C., Gatel, D., Hesse, S., Hofman, J. and Nguyen, M.-L. (2007)
    Drinking Water Hardness: Review of Reasons and Criteria for Softening and
    Conditioning of Drinking Water. Global Water Research Coalition (in preparation).
WHO (2005) Nutrients in Drinking Water. World Health Organization, Geneva, 186
    pp. (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).
Glossary




    Adequate Intake (AI) is an estimate of the average nutrient intake by a group
or groups of healthy people within a designated age, life stage and/or sex group.
It is derived from the observed intakes of apparently healthy individuals in the
subgroup of interest. AI values are established when there are insufficient data
to derive an Estimated Average Requirement (EAR).

   Analytical epidemiological studies are designed to examine specific
hypothesized causal relationships. Individuals in the study population may be
classified according to absence or presence (or future development) of specific
disease and according to risk factors that may influence disease occurrence.
Types of analytical study are cohort and case–control.

   Association is the dependence between two or more events, characteristics or
variables (e.g. exposure and disease). Variables are associated if one is more (or
less) common in the presence of another variable or when they occur more
                                                                       Glossary 167




frequently together than expected by chance. Association and relationship are
often used interchangeably. Association does not necessarily imply cause–effect
between the events or variables.

   Bioavailability refers to the proportion of an ingested nutrient (from foods or
nutritional supplements) that is absorbed and utilized through normal metabolic
pathways in specific organs or tissues.

   Case–control studies are retrospective, analytical, observational epidemio-
logical studies of persons with the disease of interest (cases) and a suitable
comparison or reference group of persons without the disease (controls). The
relationship of a risk factor to the disease is examined by comparing the cases
and the controls in terms of how frequently the factor is present.

   Causality is relating causes to their effects. Evidence from biology, bio-
chemistry, and toxicology is necessary in addition to a body of epidemiological
research. Causes can be necessary (the cause must always precede the effect)
and/or sufficient (the cause inevitably initiates or produces the effect). Consid-
erable debate often accompanies the determination of causal inferences from
epidemiological associations.

   Cohort studies are analytical, observational epidemiological studies of large
numbers of people over a long period of time, comparing rates of illness in
groups that differ by risk factors. These studies can be retrospective, prospective
or bidirectional.

   Community intervention studies are experimental epidemiological studies in
which the intervention is allocated in an entire community. The intervention can
be natural (e.g. weather events), sociopolitical (e.g. changes in water treatment)
or medical (e.g. immunization, behaviour modification).

   Confidence interval is a computed interval, with a specified probability, that
contains the estimated value of a parameter (e.g. relative risk or odds ratio). The
boundaries of a confidence interval are the confidence limits. The specified level
of confidence is usually 95%, but the investigator can select another level. A 95%
confidence interval around an estimated parameter should contain the population
parameter value in 95 out of 100 replicated studies.

   Ecological epidemiological studies are descriptive epidemiological studies
based upon populations or groups of people, rather than individuals.
168 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Estimated Average Requirement (EAR) is the nutrient intake value that is
estimated to meet the requirement defined by a specified indicator of adequacy
in 50% of the individuals in a life stage or sex group.

   Extrinsic labelling is a procedure in which a tracer is mixed with the test
substance. In measurements of calcium bioavailability, for example, the calcium
label or tracer is simply mixed with the final food product. Extrinsic labelling
does not always yield reliable results due to the difference between the chemical
forms of the calcium tracer and the calcium in food products, in this example,
which can affect bioavailability.

   Functional in this context refers to the fact that the body’s reserve of calcium
held in the bone is not simply a reservoir or storage area for excess body
calcium but actually performs an important role in health protection.

   Intrinsic labelling is a procedure in which simple labelled compounds are
provided to a plant, for example, or simple organic molecules are added to
animal feed, and natural processes such as photosynthesis and metabolism are
allowed to proceed, producing a full range of products in a manner that is no
different from normal food production.

   Metabolic syndrome is characterized by a group of metabolic risk factors,
including excessive fat tissue in the abdomen, insulin resistance or glucose
intolerance, raised blood pressure and elevated C-reactive protein in the blood.
People with metabolic syndrome are at increased risk of coronary heart disease,
stroke, peripheral vascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

   Multifactorial origin means simply that many factors are involved in causing
the disease of interest.

   Null hypothesis is the statistical hypothesis that one variable has no association
with another or that two or more population distributions do not differ.

   Probability or “p” value is, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is
true, a statement of the probability of obtaining as association or difference as
extreme as or more extreme than the one observed in the study. Investigators set
their own significance levels, but in most instances a study result whose prob-
ability value is less than 5% (1 in 20 chance or p < 0.05) is deemed statistically
significant or unlikely to have occurred by chance.
                                                                          Glossary 169




   Prospective studies are studies in which data collection and the events of
interest occur after individuals are enrolled.

    Randomized controlled trials (or Randomized prospective studies) are
prospective, experimental epidemiological or clinical studies using primary data
(i.e. the original study data). Individuals are randomly allocated to two or more
treatment groups, and the outcomes of the groups are compared after sufficient
follow-up time. Differences in outcome may be attributed to the treatment,
rather than to the characteristics of individuals forming the treatment groups.

   Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) is the average daily dietary intake
level that is sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98%)
individuals in a life stage and sex group. It is generally derived from the
Estimated Average Requirement (EAR) using a 10% coefficient of variation as
a default in the absence of nutrient-specific data on variability in the target
population.

   Retrospective studies are studies in which all events of interest have already
occurred and data are generated from historical records (secondary data) and
from recall.

   Risk factor is an exposure, characteristic or aspect of personal behaviour that is
associated with an increased probability of a health-related condition(s) or
disease(s), not necessarily a causal explanation. Age, behaviour, occupation and
smoking are risk factors for many diseases and must be considered along with the
exposure being studied.

   Signalling is a function of certain molecules in cells, including calcium ions,
cyclic nucleotides and various protein kinases and phosphatases. Intracellular
events are often triggered by external or extracellular signals, by means of the
binding of an extracellular signalling molecule to a receptor that faces outward
from the membrane. The extracellular signal is then converted to an intracellular
signal, which triggers the intracellular event.

    Statistical power is the probability that a study will demonstrate a statistically
significant result at a specified value when a true difference or association exists
(i.e. the null hypothesis is rejected when it is false). A study’s power is determined
by several factors, including frequency of the condition being studied, the
magnitude of effect and sample size.
170 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




   Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL) is the maximum level of a total chronic
daily intake of a nutrient that is unlikely to pose risks of adverse effects to the
most sensitive members of a healthy population.

   Water hardness is a measure of the concentration of divalent cations that
contributes to scale formation and soap curd. In most water supplies, calcium
and magnesium are the predominant contributors to hardness. Water considered
to be moderately hard contains about 60–120 mg/litre as calcium carbonate.
Index




A                                Alkaline phosphatase, serum 102
Absorption                       Aluminium 88
   Ca see Calcium absorption     Americas 40–41
   Mg from water 53–54, 101      AMI see Myocardial infarction, acute
Acidic water 16                  Analytical epidemiological
Adequate intakes (AI) 18, 166            studies 111, 112, 166
   approaches to setting 23–28      future needs 13–14, 149–150
   compared to reported 20–21    Animal studies, Mg deﬁciency
Adolescents                              63–65, 69
   Ca supplements 102–103        Arterial vasospasm 78–79
   setting recommended intakes   Artesian water 43, 44, 159
               23–24, 25         Asia
Africa 21, 40                       bottled water 42, 43
Alcoholism 6                        Ca and Mg intakes 21
172 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Association 166–167                           Bone metabolism, high-Ca water
   causality 116–117                                  intake and 52–53, 101–102
   interpretation 114                         Boron (B) 89, 90
   random and systematic error                Bottled waters 8, 41–46, 158–161
               113–115                           consumption 41–42, 146
   strength 115, 116                             mineral content 45–46, 54
   types of studies for assessing                quality 42–45, 55
               111–113                        British Heart Study 148
Atherogenesis 77–78
Atherosclerosis 5, 77–83                      C
Atherosclerosis Risk in                       C-reactive protein 5
        Communities study 70                  Calcite 99, 100
Australia 24, 39–40                           Calcium (Ca) 2–4
                                                 addition to water 150–151, 156,
B                                                            159, 161, 162–163
Bangladesh 85, 86–87                             balance, Mg feeding studies
Barium 146                                                   88, 89, 90, 91, 92
Beverages 48–50                                  bioavailability 13, 51–53, 97–101
   see also Bottled waters                       cardiovascular disease and
Bias 114–115                                                 138, 139
Bicarbonate 52, 99, 148                          health signiﬁcance 84–95
Bioavailability 51–54                            retention from drinking-water 101
   Ca in water 51–53, 97–101                     sweat-related loss 50–51
   deﬁnition 167                              Calcium absorption 97–101
   Mg in water 53–54, 97–101                     factors affecting 97–98
   recommended intakes/                          from water 51–53, 98–100
               allowances and 22              Calcium content
   research needs 13                             bottled waters 45–46
Biological plausibility,                         drinking-water in different
        of an association 116                                regions 38–41
Blood pressure                                Calcium intake
   high see Hypertension                         bone mass and 102–104
   Mg intake and 69–70                           excess 4
Bone mass                                        inadequate see Calcium
   Ca intake and 102–104                                     undernutrition
   high-mineral water and 105                    mineral water as source 51–53
   Mg intake and 104                             recommended see Recommended
   sweat-related Ca loss and 50                              dietary Ca intakes/
   urinary Ca and Mg                                         allowances
               excretion and 101                 reported data 19–22
                                                 sources 1–2, 96–97
                                                                    Index 173




Calcium supplements 3                  Children
   children in rickets-endemic            Ca supplements 86–87, 102–103
                area 86–87                Ca undernutrition 84, 85
   effects on bone mass 102–103, 104      Mg deﬁciency 39
Calcium undernutrition                    setting recommended intakes
   health effects 2–4, 84–85                          23–24, 25–26, 28
   intervention study 86–87               tolerable upper levels 30–31
   vulnerable subgroups 4, 14          Chlorination by-products 148–149
Calcium–carbonic acid                  Cholesterol, serum 90, 92
        equilibrium 155                Codex Alimentarius Commission
Canada                                         42–43, 55, 158
   mineral content of water 40–41      Cohort studies 7, 112, 113, 167
   reported dietary intakes 20–21      Collagen C-telopeptide, serum 102
   setting recommended intakes         Community intervention studies
                23–24, 27–28                   113, 167
   upper levels 29–31                  Conditioning, drinking-water
Cardiac arrhythmias 5, 90–91                   8, 9, 156–158
Cardiac glycosides 79                  Conﬁdence intervals 114, 167
Cardiovascular disease–water           Confounding bias 114–115
        hardness relationship          Consistency, of an association 116
        7, 39, 110–111, 118–141        Consumer information 11
   case–control studies (since 1978)   Contaminants 162
                128, 129–135           Copper 148, 157–158
   cohort studies (since 1978)         Coronary arterial vasospasm 78–79
                128, 136–137           Coronary heart disease (CHD) see
   ecological studies (since 1978)             Ischaemic heart disease
                119–127                Corrosion 7, 9, 155
   epidemiological studies 1957–1978   Cross-sectional studies 112
                118
   meta-analysis 138–140               D
   research needs 13–14, 15            Dairy products 1, 3, 96–97
   web of causation 117                Deionized water 159
Caribbean, setting recommended         Demineralization, point-of-use/point-
        intakes 24, 25, 27                     of-entry 10–11, 161–164
Case–control studies 7, 112–113, 167   Demineralized water 16, 150–151
Causality 116–117, 167                   adding minerals back 162–163
Causation, web of 117                  Dental caries prevention 12
                                       Dental ﬂuorosis 11–12
                                       Desalinated water 40, 150–151
                                       Desalination 7–8
174 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Descriptive epidemiology 111, 112             Epidemiological studies 111–118
Diabetes mellitus, type 2 3, 5, 15               cardiovascular disease–water
Dietary intakes see Calcium intake;                           hardness 7, 118–141
         Magnesium intake                        causality of association 116–117
Dietary reference intakes (DRIs)                 deriving recommended intakes
         18–19                                                26, 28
   approaches to setting 23–28                   future needs 13–14, 149–150
   reported intakes and 20, 21                   hypertension and Mg intake
Digitalis 79                                                  69–70
1,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol                    random and systematic error
         (1,25-OH-D3) 4, 88, 90                               113–115
Disinfection by-products 148–149                 strength of association 115
Distillation devices, point-of-use               types 111–113
         10–11, 162                              web of causation and 117
Distilled water 46, 159                       Error, random and systematic
Diuretics 71, 79                                       113–115
Dizocilpine 64                                Estimated average requirements
Dose–response relationship 116                         (EAR) 18, 168
Drinking-water 7–11, 159                         approaches to setting 27–28
   adding minerals to 150–151, 158,              reported dietary intakes and
               159, 160–161, 162–163                          20, 21, 22
   Ca and Mg bioavailability 51–54,           Europe
               97–101                            bottled waters 42, 43, 45–46,
   Ca and Mg retention 101                                    159–160
   conditioning 8, 9, 156–158                    Ca and Mg intakes 21
   contribution to human nutrition 54            cardiovascular disease–water
   mineral content see Mineral                                hardness studies
               composition of water                           120–124, 125–127, 128,
   optimal composition 155, 156                               129–137
   as source of Ca and Mg 2, 96–97               mineral content of water 41
   treatment see Water treatment                 setting recommended intakes
                                                              24, 25
E                                                upper levels 30
Eastern Mediterranean 40                         see also Scientiﬁc Committee on
Eclampsia 71                                                  Food of the European
Ecological epidemiological studies                            Commission
        7, 111, 167                           Exercise 47, 52
Effect modiﬁcation 115                        Extrapolation models 25–26, 28
Endothelial cells 78                          Extrinsic labelling approach
Environmental Protection Agency 44                     98, 99, 101, 168
                                                                    Index 175




F                                      Health effects 2–6
Factorial models 24–25, 27–28             alternative hypotheses 146–149
Feeding studies, Mg 87–92                 human experimental studies
Ferrylmyoglobin 79                                    84–95
Fluoridation, artiﬁcial 12                practical considerations 150–151
Fluoride 2, 11–12, 162                    research needs 13–14, 149–150
Fluorosis 11–12                           see also Cardiovascular disease–
Food                                                  water hardness
   Ca absorption from 97–98                           relationship
   sources of Ca 1, 96–97              High-mineral water 46, 160
   sources of Mg 1–2, 54, 96–97           bone mineral density and 105
   water content 48–50                    Ca absorption 51–53, 98–100
Food and Drug Administration 43           Ca and Mg retention 101
Fractures, osteoporotic 103–104           cardiovascular disease and
Fulvic acid 148                                       see Cardiovascular
Functional, deﬁned 168                                disease–water hardness
                                                      relationship
G                                         compared to milk 96–97
Gastrointestinal tract                    effect on bone metabolism
   effects of Mg excess 6                             52–53, 101–102
   low-mineral water intake and 149       mechanisms of health effects
Global Water Research Coalition 154                   146–147
Glutathione 64                            Mg absorption 53, 101
Glycosylated haemoglobin (A1c) 15      Hip fractures 103–104
Grand Forks Human Nutrition            Histamine 64
        Research Center 85, 87–92      Home water treatment industry
Groundwater 39, 40, 41, 46, 159                161–164
Guidelines for Drinking-water          Honolulu Heart Study 69–70
        Quality (WHO) 42               Humic acid 148
                                       Hydroxyapatite 99
H                                      25-Hydroxycholecalciferol
Haemoglobin, glycosylated (A1c) 15             (25-OH-D3) 90, 91
Hard water–cardiovascular disease      Hypercalcaemia 4
       hypothesis see Cardiovascular   Hypermagnesaemia 6
       disease–water hardness          Hypertension
       relationship                       Ca intake and 3
                                          case–control studies 128, 132–133
                                          meta-analysis of studies 138
                                          Mg and 5, 68–76
                                          soft water and 69, 147
176 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Hypomagnesaemia                               Longitudinal studies 112
  animal studies 63–65                        Low-mineral water 46
  clinical aspects 63                           bone metabolism and 101–102
  diagnostic difﬁculty 59–61                    cardiovascular disease and
  hypertension and 69, 70                                   see Cardiovascular
  see also Magnesium deﬁciency                              disease–water hardness
                                                            relationship
I                                               knowledge gaps 16
IHD see Ischaemic heart disease                 mechanisms of health effects
India 39, 42, 45                                            147–149
Infants                                         see also Soft water
   formula fed 4
   setting recommended intakes                M
                23, 25, 27, 28                Magnesium (Mg) 4–6
   tolerable upper levels 30, 31                absorption from water 53–54, 101
Inﬂammation, in Mg deﬁciency                    addition to drinking-water
         63–64, 77–78                                       150–151, 161, 162–163
Information provision, consumers 11             bioavailability 13, 53–54, 97–101
Institute of Medicine (IOM)                     cardiovascular disease and
         18, 19, 85                                         138, 140
Insulin resistance 3                            depletion status 6
Intervention studies                            feeding studies 87–93
   children at risk of rickets 87–88            health signiﬁcance 84–95
   deriving recommended intakes                 retention from drinking-water 101
                26, 28                          serum concentration 60
Intrinsic labelling approach 98, 168            sweat-related loss 50–51
Ischaemic (coronary) heart disease            Magnesium content
         (IHD; CHD) 5, 78–79                    bottled waters 45–46
   cohort studies 128, 136–137                  drinking-water in different
   ecological studies 119, 120–127                          regions 38–41
                                              Magnesium deﬁciency 4–6, 62–67,
K                                                    85, 87–92
Kidney stones 3, 29                             animal studies 63–65, 69
Knowledge gaps 12–16                            atherosclerosis and 77–80
                                                clinical aspects 63, 85
L                                               deﬁnition 59–60
Lactation                                       diagnosis 59–61
   setting recommended intakes                  feeding studies in humans 87–93
               25, 28                           hypertension and 5, 69–71
   tolerable upper levels 31                    marginal 14–15, 85, 91–92, 93
Lead 147–148, 157–158                           Mg content of drinking-water
Lipids, bioactive 78                                        and 39
                                                vulnerable subgroups 14
                                                                    Index 177




Magnesium intake                       Minerals
  blood pressure and 69–70               adding back 150–151, 158, 159,
  bone mass and 104                                   160–161, 162–163
  feeding studies 87–93                  removal see Demineralization;
  mineral water as source 53–54                       Softening
  recommended see Recommended            sweat-related losses 50–51
              dietary Mg intakes/        see also speciﬁc minerals
              allowances               Misclassiﬁcation bias 114
  reported data 19–22                  MK-801 64
  research needs 12, 14–15             Multifactorial origin 168
  sources 1–2, 54, 96–97               Myocardial infarction, acute (AMI)
Magnesium supplements/therapy                 7, 148
  human experimental studies             case–control studies 128, 129–132,
              87–92                                   133–134
  in hypertension 71–72                  ecological studies 119, 120, 122,
Magpie trial 71                                       125, 127
Malabsorption, intestinal 6              meta-analysis of studies 138
Marble ﬁltration 10, 156, 158, 159
Matching 115                           N
Metabolic balance studies 23–24, 27    N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
Metabolic syndrome 168                         receptor/channel
Metabolic water 48                             complex 64–65
Metals, toxic 147–148, 150             Nanoﬁltration 157
Mexico 24, 27                          National Health and Nutrition
Microbiological quality, bottled               Examination Surveys
        waters 44–45                           (NHANES) 48, 60, 70, 91
Milk 51, 96–97                         Natural mineral water 43, 44, 46, 159
Milk alkali syndrome 4, 29, 31            see also Mineral water
Mineral composition of water 37–58,    Nephrolithiasis (kidney stones) 3, 29
        146, 147                       Netherlands 41, 70
  commercial bottled waters 45–46         water treatment 156–158, 159
  contribution to human nutrition 54   Nickel 148
  in different regions 38–41           Nitric oxide (NO) 64
  see also High-mineral water; Low-    Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-KB)
              mineral water                    77–78
Mineral water 159                      Null hypothesis 168
  high Ca and Mg see High-mineral      Nurses’ Health Study 104
              water
  natural 43, 44, 46, 159
  as source of Ca 51–53
  as source of Mg 53–54
178 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




O                                             Power, statistical 169
Observation bias 114                          Pre-eclampsia 5, 71, 72
Organic acids 148                             Pregnancy
Organoleptic considerations 7                    outcome, Mg intake and 38–39
Osmotic diarrhoea 6, 29–30, 31                   setting recommended intakes
Osteocalcin, serum 102                                       24, 25, 27–28
Osteoporosis 2–3, 84–85                          tolerable upper levels 31
   deriving recommended Ca intakes            Premature delivery 38–39
              and 26                          Prepared water 43, 159
   marginal Mg status and 15, 93              Probability (p) value 114, 168
Oxalate/oxalic acid 3, 97–98, 147             Prospective studies 169
Oxidative stress 64, 78                       Prostaglandin E2 63–64
                                              PTH see Parathyroid hormone
P                                             Puriﬁed water 43, 44, 159
Packaged water 8, 41–46, 158–161
   mineral contents 45–46                     R
   quality 42–45                              Rainwater, collected 10
   see also Bottled waters                    Random error 113–115
Papua New Guinea 39                           Randomized controlled trials 169
Parathyroid hormone (PTH)                     Reactive oxygen species (ROS)
   Ca supplements and 103                             78, 79
   high-Ca water intake and 52–53,            Recommended dietary allowances
                101, 102                              (RDA) 18, 169
   in Mg deﬁciency 88                            approaches to setting 23–28
Pellet softening process 156, 157             Recommended dietary Ca intakes/
pH, water 99, 100, 155, 156                           allowances 17–36
Phosphate 99                                     approaches to setting 23–26
Physical exertion 47, 52                         bioavailability and 22
Phytate 97–98                                    reference standards 18–19
Piped drinking-water 7, 154–158                  reported intakes and 19–22
Point-of-entry (POE) water                       upper levels 29, 30
         softening 10–11, 155, 161–164        Recommended dietary Mg intakes/
Point-of-use (POU) water                              allowances 17–36
         treatment 10–11, 161–164                approaches to setting 27–28
Postmenopausal women                             bioavailability and 22
   Ca supplements 103–104                        reference standards 18–19
   high-Ca water intake 101–102                  reported intakes and 19–22
   Mg feeding studies 87–92                      research needs 12, 14
Potassium, urinary excretion                     upper levels 29–31
         91, 92, 93                           Reference intakes 18–19
                                                                    Index 179




Relative risk 115                      Sparkling water 43, 44
Renin–angiotensin system 70            Speciﬁcity, of an association 116
Research recommendations 12–16         Sphingolipids 78
Retrospective studies 112, 169         Sphingomyelinase (SMase) 78
Reuse water 8                          Spring water 43, 44, 46, 159
Reverse osmosis, point of use          Stabilization
        10–11, 162                        desalinated/demineralized
Reverse osmosis-treated water                          water 8–9, 150–151
        145, 150–151                      reuse water 9
Reversibility, of an association 116   Statistical power 169
Rickets 84, 85, 86–87                  Statistical signiﬁcance 114
Risk factors 169                       Stroke 3, 141
Risk ratio 115                            case–control studies 128, 131
                                          ecological studies 119, 120–127
S                                         meta-analysis of studies 138
Saturation Index (SI) 155, 156         Strontium 146
Scaling 7, 155                         Substance P (SP) 63, 64
Scientiﬁc Committee on Food of         Sulfate 52, 99, 100, 101
        the European Commission        Superoxide dismutase 92
        (SCF) 25, 27, 30, 85           Sweating 47, 50–51
Seawater, adding back 7–8, 151         Systematic error 113–115
Selection bias 114
Signalling 169                         T
Skeletal ﬂuorosis 11                   Taiwan, China 38–39
Sodium ions 10, 148                       bottled water 45
Soft water                                cardiovascular disease–hard water
   adding minerals to 158, 159,                      studies 119, 124, 128,
               162–163                               131, 132–133
   artiﬁcially 148, 161–164            Tap water
   health effects 69, 147–149             consumption trends 42, 43–44, 146
   naturally 9, 148, 158                  mineral contents 40, 46, 54
   see also Low-mineral water          Taste 8, 160
Softening                              Temporal causality 116
   central 154–158                     Thermal waters 160
   point of entry 10–11, 155, 162      Tolerable upper intake levels (UL)
South-east Asia                                19, 28–31, 170
   mineral content of water 21,           calcium 29, 30
               38–40                      deﬁning 28–29
   recommended daily                      magnesium 29–31
               allowances 24, 27
180 Calcium and Magnesium in Drinking-water




Total dissolved solids (TDS) 145              W
   bottled waters 43, 44, 45                  Wastewater, reuse 8
   wastewater 9                               Water
Trials of Hypertension Prevention 71            dietary sources 48–50
                                                metabolic 48
U                                               as source of Ca and Mg 2, 96–97
United Kingdom 21, 30, 41, 146–147              see also Drinking-water
United States                                 Water hardness 170
   bottled waters 42, 43–46, 158–159            cardiovascular disease and
   Ca intake 20–21                                          see Cardiovascular
   cardiovascular disease–water                             disease–water hardness
               hardness studies                             relationship
               110, 128, 137                    in different regions 39–40, 41
   hypertension and Mg intake 70              Water intake 47–48
   Mg intake 20–21, 53–54, 62, 85             Water loss 47
   mineral content of water 40                Water requirements
   pre-eclampsia 71                             factors affecting 47
   serum Mg concentrations 60                   reference values 47–48
   setting recommended intakes                Water treatment
               23–24, 27–28                     in Netherlands 156–158, 159
   upper levels 28, 29, 30                      point of use/point of entry 10–11,
   water intake studies 48                                  161–164
Upper levels see Tolerable upper                reuse water 9
        intake levels                         Web of causation 117
Urinary Ca and Mg excretion 101               Western Paciﬁc region 38–40
                                              Women’s Health Initiative 104
V
Vanadium 146, 147                             Z
Vascular smooth muscle (VSM)                  Zinc 148
       77–79
Vascular spasm 78–79
Vertebral fractures 104
Very low birth weight infants 38–39
Vitamin D
   bone mass and 103–104
   supplements 101–102, 104
Vulnerable subgroups 4, 14
Can calcium and magnesium (‘hardness’) in drinking water contribute to
preventing disease?
This book documents the outputs of an unprecedented group of experts
assembled by the World Health Organization to address this question.
It includes their comprehensive consensus view on what is known and
what is not about the role and possible health beneﬁt of calcium and
magnesium in drinking-water.
Also included is a series of chapters each authored by internationally
renowned experts reviewing the state of the art in different aspects,
including:
  s GLOBAL DIETARY CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM INTAKES
  s THE CONTRIBUTION OF DRINKING WATER TO CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
    intake
  s HEALTH SIGNIlCANCE OF CALCIUM AND MAGNESIUM
  s ROLE OF DRINKING WATER IN RELATION TO BONE METABOLISM
  s EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES AND THE ASSOCIATION OF CARDIOVASCULAR
    disease risks with water hardness and magnesium in particular
  s WATER PRODUCTION TECHNICAL ISSUES AND ECONOMICS
In both developed and developing countries, typical diets are often deﬁ-
cient in calcium and magnesium, essential minerals which are necessary
for the development of strong bones and teeth, and for cardiovascu-
lar function. At the same time, there is evidence that consuming ‘hard’
drinking-water may be associated with reduced risks for some diseases.
This is important because of the wide natural variation in water hard-
ness and the increasing ‘processing’ of drinking-water, whether in
centralized facilities or in the home, as well as the increasing popularity
of bottled waters – which vary widely in mineral content.
Climate change and other ongoing changes will increase the use of ‘high
tech’ treatments – for example desalination and reclamation of polluted
waters – and mean that the issue will be of increasing future impor-
tance.


                                                        ISBN 978 92 4 156355 0
