       ARS 49-224 Aquifer identification, classification and
     reclassification (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


ยง 49-224. Aquifer identification, classification and
reclassification

A. Not later than June 30, 1987 the director shall, by rule, identify and
define the boundaries of all aquifers in this state utilizing, to the maximum
extent possible, data available from the department of water resources.

B. All aquifers in this state identified and defined under subsection A of this
section and any other aquifers subsequently discovered, identified and
defined shall be classified for drinking water protected use unless the
classification is changed in the manner provided in subsection C of this
section.

C. The director, after consulting with the appropriate groundwater users
advisory council established pursuant to title 45, chapter 2, article 2 if the
aquifer is in an active management area, and a public hearing held pursuant
to section 49-208, may change the classification of an aquifer or part of an
aquifer for a protected use other than drinking water on making all of the
following findings:

1. The identified aquifer or part of an aquifer is or will be so hydrologically
isolated from other aquifers or other parts of the same aquifer that there is
no reasonable probability that poorer quality water from the identified
aquifer or part of an aquifer will cause or contribute to a violation of aquifer
water quality standards in other aquifers or parts of the same aquifer.

2. Water from the identified aquifer or part of an aquifer is not being used as
drinking water.

3. The short-term and long-term benefits to the public that would result
from the degradation of the quality of the water in the identified aquifer or
part of an aquifer below standards established pursuant to section 49-223,
subsections A and B would significantly outweigh the short-term and long-
term costs to the public of such degradation. Benefits and costs to be
considered include economic, social and environmental.

D. Owners or operators of facilities whose discharges are solely responsible
for creating an aquifer may petition the director for a classification of the
aquifer for a non-drinking water use. The director may, by rule, classify that
aquifer for a non-drinking water use upon making the findings prescribed in
subsection C, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section.

E. The director shall provide for public participation in proceedings under
this section pursuant to section 49-208 and shall hold at least one public
       ARS 49-224 Aquifer identification, classification and
     reclassification (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


hearing at a location as near as practicable to the aquifer proposed for
reclassification.
