ARS 49-221 Water quality standards in general (Arizona Revised
                  Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-221. Water quality standards in general

A. The director shall adopt, by rule, water quality standards for all navigable
waters and for all waters in all aquifers to preserve and protect the quality of
those waters for all present and reasonably foreseeable future uses.

B. The director may adopt, by rule, water quality standards for waters of the
state other than those described in subsection A of this section, including
standards for the use of water pumped from an aquifer that does not meet
the standards adopted pursuant to section 49-223, subsections A and B and
that is put to a beneficial use other than drinking water. These standards
may include standards for the use of water pumped as part of a remedial
action. In adopting such standards, the director shall consider the economic,
social and environmental costs and benefits that would result from the
adoption of a water quality standard at a particular level or for a particular
water category.

C. In setting standards pursuant to subsection A or B of this section, the
director shall consider, but not be limited to, the following:

1. The protection of the public health and the environment.

2. The uses that have been made, are being made or with reasonable
probability may be made of these waters.

3. The provisions and requirements of the clean water act and safe drinking
water act and the regulations adopted pursuant to those acts.

4. The degree to which standards for one category of waters could cause
violations of standards for other, hydrologically connected, water categories.

5. Guidelines, action levels or numerical criteria adopted or recommended
by the United States environmental protection agency or any other federal
agency.

6. Any unique physical, biological or chemical properties of the waters.

D. Water quality standards shall be expressed in terms of the uses to be
protected and, if adequate information exists to do so, numerical limitations
or parameters, in addition to any narrative standards that the director
deems appropriate.

E. The director may adopt by rule water quality standards for the direct
reuse of reclaimed water. In establishing these standards , the director shall
consider the following:
ARS 49-221 Water quality standards in general (Arizona Revised
                  Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. The protection of public health and the environment.

2. The uses that are being made or may be made of the reclaimed water.

3. The degree to which standards for the direct reuse of reclaimed water may
cause violations of water quality standards for other hydrologically
connected water categories.

F. If the director proposes to adopt water quality standards for agricultural
water, the director shall consult, cooperate, collaborate and, if necessary,
enter into interagency agreements and memoranda of understanding with
the Arizona department of agriculture relating to its administration,
pursuant to title 3, chapter 3, article 4.1, of this state's authority relating to
agricultural water under the United States food and drug administration
produce safety rule (21 Code of Federal Regulations part 112, subpart E) and
any other federal produce safety regulation, order or guideline or other
requirement adopted pursuant to the FDA food safety modernization act (
P.L. 111-353; 21 United States Code sections 2201 through 2252 ). For the
purposes of this subsection:

1. "Agricultural water":

(a) Means water that is used in a covered activity on produce where water is
intended to, or is likely to, contact produce or food contact surfaces.

(b) Includes all of the following:

(i) Water used in growing activities, including irrigation water, water used
for preparing crop sprays and water used for growing sprouts.

(ii) Water used in harvesting, packing and holding activities, including water
used for washing or cooling harvested produce and water used for
preventing dehydration of produce.

2. "Covered activity" means growing, harvesting, packing or holding
produce. Covered activity includes processing produce to the extent that the
activity is within the meaning of farm as defined in section 3-525.

3. "Harvesting" has the same meaning prescribed in section 3-525.

4. "Holding" has the same meaning prescribed in section 3-525.

5. "Packing" has the same meaning prescribed in section 3-525.

6. "Produce" has the same meaning prescribed in section 3-525.

(Amended by L. 2018, ch. 48,s. 46, eff. 8/3/2018.)
     ARS 49-222 Water quality standards for navigable waters
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-222. Water quality standards for navigable waters

A. Standards for the quality of navigable waters shall assure water quality, if
attainable, which provides for protecting the public health and welfare, and
shall enhance the quality of water taking into consideration its use and value
for public water supplies, the propagation of fish and wildlife and
recreational, agricultural, industrial and other purposes including
navigation.

B. Not later than January 1, 1990, the director shall adopt standards for the
quality of all navigable waters which establish numeric limitations on the
concentrations of each of the toxic pollutants listed by the administrator
pursuant to section 307 of the clean water act ( 33 United States Code
section 1317).

C. In setting numeric standards for the quality of navigable waters, the
director may consider the effect of local water quality characteristics on the
toxicity of specific pollutants and the varying sensitivities of local affected
aquatic populations to such pollutants, and the extent to which the natural
flow of the stream is intermittent or ephemeral, as a result of which the
instream flow consists mostly of treated wastewater effluent, except that
such standards shall not, in any event, be inconsistent with the clean water
act. In applying such standards the director may establish appropriate
mixing zones.
  ARS 49-223 Aquifer water quality standards (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-223. Aquifer water quality standards

A. Primary drinking water maximum contaminant levels established by the
administrator before August 13, 1986 are adopted as drinking water aquifer
water quality standards. The director may only adopt additional aquifer
water quality standards by rule. Within one year after the administrator
establishes additional primary drinking water maximum contaminant levels,
the director shall open a rule making docket pursuant to section 41-1021 for
adoption of those maximum contaminant levels as drinking water aquifer
water quality standards. If substantial opposition is demonstrated in the rule
making docket regarding a particular constituent, the director may adopt for
that constituent the maximum contaminant level as a drinking water aquifer
water quality standard upon making a finding that this level is appropriate
for adoption in Arizona as an aquifer water quality standard. In making this
finding, the director shall consider whether the assumptions about
technologies, costs, sampling and analytical methodologies and public
health risk reduction used by the administrator in developing and
implementing the maximum contaminant level are appropriate for
establishing a drinking water aquifer water quality standard. For purposes of
this subsection "substantial opposition" means information submitted to the
director that explains with reasonable specificity why the maximum
contaminant level is not appropriate as an aquifer water quality standard.

B. The director may adopt by rule numeric drinking water aquifer water
quality standards for pollutants for which the administrator has not
established primary drinking water maximum contaminant levels or for
which a maximum contaminant level has been established but the director
has determined it to be inappropriate as an aquifer water quality standard
pursuant to subsection A of this section. These standards shall be based on
the protection of human health. In establishing numeric drinking water
aquifer water quality standards, the director shall rely on technical protocols
appropriate for the development of aquifer water quality standards and shall
base the standards on credible medical and toxicological evidence that has
been subjected to peer review.

C. Any person may petition the director to adopt a numeric drinking water
aquifer quality standard for any pollutant for which no drinking water
aquifer quality standard exists. The director shall grant the petition and
institute rule making proceedings adopting a numeric standard as provided
under subsection B of this section within one hundred eighty days if the
petition shows that the pollutant is a toxic pollutant, that the pollutant has
been, or may in the future be, detected in any of the state's drinking water
aquifers, and that there exists technical information on which a numeric
standard might reasonably be based. Within one year of the commencement
of the rule making proceeding, the director shall either adopt a numeric
  ARS 49-223 Aquifer water quality standards (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


standard or make and publish a finding that, pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the development of a numeric standard is not possible. The
decision to not adopt a numeric standard shall, for purposes of judicial
review, be treated in the same manner as a rule adopted pursuant to title 41,
chapter 6.

D. For purposes of assessing compliance with each aquifer water quality
standard adopted pursuant to this section, the director shall for purposes of
articles 3 and 4 of this chapter, and may for purposes of other provisions of
this title, identify sampling and analytical protocols appropriate for
detecting and measuring the pollutant in the aquifers in the state.

E. Within one year from the reclassification of an aquifer to a non-drinking
water status, pursuant to section 49-224, the director shall adopt water
quality standards for that aquifer. For any pollutants which were not the
basis for the reclassification, the applicable standard shall be identical with
the standard for those pollutants adopted pursuant to subsections A and B
of this section. For any pollutants which were the basis for reclassification,
the standard shall be sufficient to achieve the purpose for which the aquifer
was reclassified but shall minimize unnecessary degradation of the aquifer
by taking into consideration the potential long-term uses of the aquifer and
the short-term and long-term benefits of the activities resulting in
discharges into the aquifer.

F. The director shall adopt water quality standards for an aquifer for which a
petition has been submitted pursuant to section 49-224, subsection D
sufficient to achieve the non-drinking water use for which that aquifer was
classified, taking into consideration the potential long-term uses of that
aquifer and the short-term and long-term benefits of the discharging
activities creating that aquifer.

G. In any action pursuant to this title, aquifer water quality protection
provisions, including monitoring requirements, may be imposed only for
pollutants for which aquifer water quality standards have been established
that are likely to be present in a discharge. Indicator parameters and quality
assurance parameters appropriate for such pollutants also may be specified.
       ARS 49-224 Aquifer identification, classification and
     reclassification (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-224. Aquifer identification, classification and
reclassification

A. Not later than June 30, 1987 the director shall, by rule, identify and
define the boundaries of all aquifers in this state utilizing, to the maximum
extent possible, data available from the department of water resources.

B. All aquifers in this state identified and defined under subsection A of this
section and any other aquifers subsequently discovered, identified and
defined shall be classified for drinking water protected use unless the
classification is changed in the manner provided in subsection C of this
section.

C. The director, after consulting with the appropriate groundwater users
advisory council established pursuant to title 45, chapter 2, article 2 if the
aquifer is in an active management area, and a public hearing held pursuant
to section 49-208, may change the classification of an aquifer or part of an
aquifer for a protected use other than drinking water on making all of the
following findings:

1. The identified aquifer or part of an aquifer is or will be so hydrologically
isolated from other aquifers or other parts of the same aquifer that there is
no reasonable probability that poorer quality water from the identified
aquifer or part of an aquifer will cause or contribute to a violation of aquifer
water quality standards in other aquifers or parts of the same aquifer.

2. Water from the identified aquifer or part of an aquifer is not being used as
drinking water.

3. The short-term and long-term benefits to the public that would result
from the degradation of the quality of the water in the identified aquifer or
part of an aquifer below standards established pursuant to section 49-223,
subsections A and B would significantly outweigh the short-term and long-
term costs to the public of such degradation. Benefits and costs to be
considered include economic, social and environmental.

D. Owners or operators of facilities whose discharges are solely responsible
for creating an aquifer may petition the director for a classification of the
aquifer for a non-drinking water use. The director may, by rule, classify that
aquifer for a non-drinking water use upon making the findings prescribed in
subsection C, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section.

E. The director shall provide for public participation in proceedings under
this section pursuant to section 49-208 and shall hold at least one public
       ARS 49-224 Aquifer identification, classification and
     reclassification (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


hearing at a location as near as practicable to the aquifer proposed for
reclassification.
 ARS 49-225 Water quality monitoring (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))


§ 49-225. Water quality monitoring

A. The director of environmental quality , with the advice and cooperation of
the Arizona department of agriculture and the director of water resources
when appropriate , shall conduct ongoing monitoring of the waters of the
state including the state's navigable waters and aquifers to detect the
presence of new and existing pollutants, determine compliance with
applicable water quality standards, determine the effectiveness of best
management practices, agricultural best management practices and best
available demonstrated control technologies, evaluate the effects of
pollutants on public health or the environment and determine water quality
trends.

B. The director shall maintain a statewide database of groundwater and soils
sampled for pollutants. All agencies shall submit to the director, in a timely
manner, the results of any groundwater or soils sampling for pollutants and
the results of any groundwater or soils sampling that detect any pollutants.

C. The director shall establish minimum requirements and schedules for
groundwater and soils sampling that will ensure precise and accurate
results. The requirements shall be distributed to all agencies that conduct
sampling. All sampling conducted shall meet the minimum requirements
established pursuant to this subsection.

(Amended by L. 2018, ch. 192,s. 3, eff. 8/3/2018.)
