ARS 49-231 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-231. Definitions

In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:

1. "Impaired water" means a navigable water for which credible scientific
data exists that satisfies the requirements of section 49-232 and that
demonstrates that the water should be identified pursuant to 33 United
States Code section 1313(d) and the regulations implementing that statute.

2. "Surface water quality standard" means a standard adopted for a
navigable water pursuant to sections 49-221 and 49-222 and section 303(c)
of the clean water act ( 33 United States Code section 1313(c) ).

3. "TMDL implementation plan" means a written strategy to implement a
total maximum daily load that is developed for an impaired water. TMDL
implementation plans may rely on any combination of the following
components that the department determines will result in achieving and
maintaining compliance with applicable surface water quality standards in
the most cost-effective and equitable manner:

(a) Permit limitations.

(b) Best management practices.

(c) Education and outreach efforts.

(d) Technical assistance.

(e) Cooperative agreements, voluntary measures and incentive-based
programs.

(f) Load reductions resulting from other legally required programs or
activities.

(g) Land management programs.

(h) Pollution prevention planning, waste minimization or pollutant trading
agreements.

(i) Other measures deemed appropriate by the department.

4. "Total maximum daily load" means an estimation of the total amount of a
pollutant from all sources that may be added to a water while still allowing
the water to achieve and maintain applicable surface water quality
standards. Each total maximum daily load shall include allocations for
sources that contribute the pollutant to the water, as required by section
303(d) of the clean water act ( 33 United States Code section 1313(d)) and
ARS 49-231 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



regulations implementing that statute to achieve applicable surface water
quality standards.
  ARS 49-232 Lists of impaired waters; data requirements; rules
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-232. Lists of impaired waters; data requirements; rules

A. At least once every five years, the department shall prepare a list of
impaired waters for the purpose of complying with section 303(d) of the
clean water act ( 33 United States Code section 1313(d)). The department
shall provide public notice and allow for comment on a draft list of impaired
waters prior to its submission to the United States environmental protection
agency. The department shall prepare written responses to comments
received on the draft list. The department shall publish the list of impaired
waters that it plans to submit initially to the regional administrator and a
summary of the responses to comments on the draft list in the Arizona
administrative register at least forty-five days before submission of the list to
the regional administrator. Publication of the list in the Arizona
administrative register is an appealable agency action pursuant to title 41,
chapter 6, article 10 that may be appealed by any party that submitted
written comments on the draft list. If the department receives a notice of
appeal of a listing pursuant to section 41-1092, subsection B within forty-five
days of the publication of the list in the Arizona administrative register, the
department shall not include the challenged listing in its initial submission
to the regional administrator. The department may subsequently submit the
challenged listing to the regional administrator if the listing is upheld in the
director's final administrative decision pursuant to section 41-1092.08, or if
the challenge to the listing is withdrawn prior to a final administrative
decision.

B. In determining whether a water is impaired, the department shall
consider only reasonably current credible and scientifically defensible data
that the department has collected or has received from another source.
Results of water sampling or other assessments of water quality, including
physical or biological health, shall be considered credible and scientifically
defensible data only if the department has determined all of the following:

1. Appropriate quality assurance and quality control procedures were
followed and documented in collecting and analyzing the data.

2. The samples or analyses are representative of water quality conditions at
the time the data was collected.

3. The data consists of an adequate number of samples based on the nature
of the water in question and the parameters being analyzed.

4. The method of sampling and analysis, including analytical, statistical and
modeling methods, is generally accepted and validated in the scientific
community as appropriate for use in assessing the condition of the water.
  ARS 49-232 Lists of impaired waters; data requirements; rules
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


C. The department shall adopt by rule the methodology to be used in
identifying waters as impaired. The rules shall specify all of the following:

1. Minimum data requirements and quality assurance and quality control
requirements that are consistent with subsection B of this section and that
must be satisfied in order for the data to serve as the basis for listing and
delisting decisions.

2. Appropriate sampling, analytical and scientific techniques that may be
used in assessing whether a water is impaired.

3. Any statistical or modeling techniques that the department uses to assess
or interpret data.

4. Criteria for including and removing waters from the list of impaired
waters, including any implementation procedures developed pursuant to
subsection F of this section. The criteria for removing a water from the list of
impaired waters shall not be any more stringent than the criteria for adding
a water to that list.

D. In assessing whether a water is impaired, the department shall consider
the data available in light of the nature of the water in question, including
whether the water is an ephemeral water. A water in which pollutant
loadings from naturally occurring conditions alone are sufficient to cause a
violation of applicable surface water quality standards shall not be listed as
impaired.

E. If the department has adopted a numeric surface water quality standard
for a pollutant and that standard is not being exceeded in a water, the
department shall not list the water as impaired based on a conclusion that
the pollutant causes a violation of a narrative or biological standard unless:

1. The department has determined that the numeric standard is insufficient
to protect water quality.

2. The department has identified specific reasons that are appropriate for
the water in question, that are based on generally accepted scientific
principles and that support the department's determination.

F. Before listing a navigable water as impaired based on a violation of a
narrative or biological surface water quality standard and after providing an
opportunity for public notice and comment, the department shall adopt
implementation procedures that specifically identify the objective basis for
determining that a violation of the narrative or biological criterion exists. A
total maximum daily load designed to achieve compliance with a narrative
or biological surface water quality standard shall not be adopted until the
  ARS 49-232 Lists of impaired waters; data requirements; rules
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


implementation procedure for the narrative or biological surface water
quality standard has been adopted.

G. On request, the department shall make available to the public data used
to support the listing of a water as impaired and may charge a reasonable fee
to persons requesting the data.

H. By January 1, 2002, the department shall review the list of waters
identified as impaired as of January 1, 2000 to determine whether the data
that supports the listing of those waters complies with this section. If the
data that supports a listing does not comply with this section, the listed
water shall not be included on future lists submitted to the United States
environmental protection agency pursuant to 33 United States Code section
1313(d) unless in the interim data that satisfies the requirements of this
section has been collected or received by the department.

I. The department shall add a water to or remove a water from the list using
the process described in section 49-232, subsection A outside of the normal
listing cycle if it collects or receives credible and scientifically defensible data
that satisfies the requirements of this section and that demonstrates that the
current quality of the water is such that it should be removed from or added
to the list. A listed water may no longer warrant classification as impaired or
an unlisted water may be identified as impaired if the applicable surface
water quality standards, implementation procedures or designated uses
have changed or if there is a change in water quality.
   ARS 49-233 Priority ranking and schedule (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-233. Priority ranking and schedule

A. Each list developed by the department pursuant to section 49-232 shall
contain a priority ranking of navigable waters identified as impaired and for
which total maximum daily loads are required pursuant to section 49-234
and a schedule for the development of all required total maximum daily
loads.

B. In the first list submitted to the United States environmental protection
agency after the effective date of this article, the schedule shall be sufficient
to ensure that all required total maximum daily loads will be developed
within fifteen years of the date the list is approved by the environmental
protection agency. Total maximum daily loads that are required to be
developed for navigable waters that are included for the first time on
subsequent lists shall be developed within fifteen years of the initial
inclusion of the water on the list.

C. As part of the rule making prescribed by section 49-232, subsection C, the
department shall identify the factors that it will use to prioritize navigable
waters that require development of total maximum daily loads. At a
minimum and to the extent relevant data is available, the department shall
consider the following factors in prioritizing navigable waters for
development of total maximum daily loads:

1. The designated uses of the navigable water.

2. The type and extent of risk from the impairment to human health or
aquatic life.

3. The degree of public interest and support, or its lack.

4. The nature of the navigable water, including whether it is an ephemeral,
intermittent or effluent-dependent water.

5. The pollutants causing the impairment.

6. The severity, magnitude and duration of the violation of the applicable
surface water quality standard.

7. The seasonal variation caused by natural events such as storms or weather
patterns.

8. Existing treatment levels and management practices.
   ARS 49-233 Priority ranking and schedule (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


9. The availability of effective and economically feasible treatment
techniques, management practices or other pollutant loading reduction
measures.

10. The recreational and economic importance of the water.

11. The extent to which the impairment is caused by discharges or activities
that have ceased.

12. The extent to which natural sources contribute to the impairment.

13. Whether the water is accorded special protection under federal or state
water quality law.

14. Whether action that is taken or that is likely to be taken under other
programs, including voluntary programs, is likely to make significant
progress toward achieving applicable standards even if a total maximum
daily load is not developed.

15. The time expected to be required to achieve compliance with applicable
surface water quality standards.

16. The availability of documented, effective analytical tools for developing a
total maximum daily load for the water with reasonable accuracy.

17. Department resources and programmatic needs.
 ARS 49-234 Total maximum daily loads; implementation plans
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-234. Total maximum daily loads; implementation plans

A. The department shall develop total maximum daily loads for those
navigable waters listed as impaired pursuant to this article and for which
total maximum daily loads are required to be adopted pursuant to 33 United
States Code section 1313(d) and the regulations implementing that statute.
The department may estimate total maximum daily loads for navigable
waters not listed as impaired pursuant to this article, for the purposes of
developing information to satisfy the requirements of 33 United States Code
section 1313(d)(3), only after it has developed total maximum daily loads for
all navigable waters identified as impaired pursuant to this article or if
necessary to support permitting of new point source discharges.

B. In developing total maximum daily loads, the department shall use only
statistical and modeling techniques that are properly validated and broadly
accepted by the scientific community. The modeling technique may vary
based on the type of water and the quantity and quality of available data that
meets the quality assurance and quality control requirements of section 49-
232. The department may establish the statistical and modeling techniques
in rules adopted pursuant to section 49-232, subsection C.

C. Each total maximum daily load shall:

1. Be based on data and methodologies that comply with section 49-232.

2. Be established at a level that will achieve and maintain compliance with
applicable surface water quality standards.

3. Include a reasonable margin of safety that takes into account any lack of
knowledge concerning the relationship between effluent limitations and
water quality. The margin of safety shall not be used as a substitute for
adequate data when developing the total maximum daily load.

4. Account for seasonal variations that may include setting total maximum
daily loads that apply on a seasonal basis.

D. For each impaired water, the department shall prepare a draft estimate of
the total amount of each pollutant that causes the impairment from all
sources and that may be added to the navigable water while still allowing the
navigable water to achieve and maintain applicable surface water quality
standards. In addition, the department shall determine draft allocations
among the contributing sources that are sufficient to achieve the total
loadings. The department shall provide public notice and allow for comment
on each draft estimate and draft allocation and shall prepare written
responses to comments received on the draft estimates and draft allocations.
 ARS 49-234 Total maximum daily loads; implementation plans
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


The department shall publish the determinations of total pollutant loadings
that will not result in impairment and the draft allocations among the
contributing sources that are sufficient to achieve the total loading that it
intends to submit initially to the regional administrator, along with a
summary of the responses to comments on the estimated loadings and
allocations, in the Arizona administrative register at least forty-five days
before submission of the loadings and allocations to the regional
administrator. Notwithstanding this subsection, draft allocations shall be
submitted to the regional administrator only if that submission is required
by the rules that implement 33 United States Code section 1313(d).

E. Publication of the loadings and allocations in the Arizona administrative
register is an appealable agency action pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article
10 that may be appealed by any party that submitted written comments on
the estimated loadings and allocations. If the department receives a notice of
appeal of a loading and allocation pursuant to section 41-1092.03 within
forty-five days of the publication of the loading and allocations in the
Arizona administrative register, the department shall not submit the
challenged loading and allocations to the regional administrator until either
the challenge to the loading and allocation is withdrawn or the director has
made a final administrative decision pursuant to section 41-1092.08.

F. The department shall make reasonable and equitable allocations among
sources when developing total maximum daily loads. At a minimum, the
department shall consider the following factors in making allocations:

1. The environmental, economic and technological feasibility of achieving
the allocation.

2. The cost and benefit associated with achieving the allocation.

3. Any pollutant loading reductions that are reasonably expected to be
achieved as a result of other legally required actions or voluntary measures.

G. For each total maximum daily load, the department shall establish a
TMDL implementation plan that explains how the allocations and any
reductions in existing pollutant loadings will be achieved. Any reductions in
loadings from nonpoint sources shall be achieved voluntarily. The
department shall provide for public notice and comment on each TMDL
implementation plan. Any sampling or monitoring components of a TMDL
implementation plan shall comply with section 49-232.

H. Each TMDL implementation plan shall provide the time frame in which
compliance with applicable surface water quality standards is expected to be
achieved. The plan may include a phased process with interim targets for
 ARS 49-234 Total maximum daily loads; implementation plans
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


load reductions. Longer time frames are appropriate in situations involving
multiple dischargers, technical, legal or economic barriers to achieving
necessary load reductions, scientific uncertainty regarding data quality or
modeling, significant loading from natural sources or significant loading
resulting from discharges or activities that have already ceased.

I. For navigable waters that are impaired due in part to historical factors
that are difficult to address, including contaminated sediments, the
department shall consider those historical factors in determining allocations
for existing point source discharges of the pollutant or pollutants that cause
the impairment. In developing total maximum daily loads for those
navigable waters, the department shall use a phased approach in which
expected long-term loading reductions from the historical sources are
considered in establishing short-term allocations for the point sources.
While total maximum daily loads and TMDL implementation plans are
being completed, any permits issued for the point sources are deemed
consistent with this article if the permits require reasonable reductions in
the discharges of the pollutants causing the impairment and are not
required to include additional reductions if those reductions would not
significantly contribute to attainment of surface water quality standards.

J. After a total maximum daily load and a TMDL implementation plan have
been adopted for a navigable water, the department shall review the status
of the navigable water at least once every five years to determine if
compliance with applicable surface water quality standards has been
achieved. If compliance with applicable surface water quality standards has
not been achieved, the department shall evaluate whether modification of
the total maximum daily load or TMDL implementation plan is required.
   ARS 49-235 Rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-235. Rules

The department shall adopt any rules necessary to implement this article.
  ARS 49-236 Report (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-236. Report

By September 1, 2005, the department shall submit a report to the governor,
the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the senate
detailing progress made under this program and shall provide a copy to the
secretary of state and the department of library, archives and public records.
At a minimum, the report shall:

1. Evaluate the effectiveness of the total maximum daily load program and
identify any recommended statutory changes to make the program more
efficient, effective and equitable.

2. Assess the extent to which water quality problems that cannot be
effectively addressed under the total maximum daily load program may be
addressed under other federal or state laws.

3. Identify the number of appeals of department decisions under this article
sought pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 and the disposition of those
appeals, and assess the impact of those appeals on the department's ability
to administer the program effectively.
   ARS 49-237 Impact of successful judicial appeal of Arizona
 department of environmental quality decision (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))

§ 49-237. Impact of successful judicial appeal of Arizona
department of environmental quality decision

If a person appeals to court and succeeds in overturning or modifying a final
administrative decision of the director pursuant to this article in an appeal
initiated pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10, within thirty days of the
court's decision the department shall take the steps necessary to implement
the court's decision, unless the director's decision that is overturned or
modified was submitted to and approved by the regional administrator, in
which case within thirty days of the court's decision the department shall
request that the regional administrator modify the approval to reflect the
court's decision.
   ARS 49-238 Program termination (Arizona Revised Statutes
                       (2021 Edition))


§ 49-238. Program termination

The program established by this article ends on July 1, 2020 pursuant to
section 41-3102.
