   ARS 49-351 Designation of responsible state agency (Arizona
                Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-351. Designation of responsible state agency

A. The department of environmental quality is designated as the responsible
agency for this state to take all actions necessary or appropriate to ensure
that all potable water distributed or sold to the public through public water
systems is free from unwholesome, poisonous, deleterious or other foreign
substances and filth or disease causing substances or organisms. All such
actions shall be taken at the direction of the director of the department.

B. All state agencies and any local health agencies involved with water
quality, at the request of the director, shall provide to the department any
assistance requested to ensure that this article is effectuated.
     ARS 49-352 Classifying systems and certifying personnel;
       limitation (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-352. Classifying systems and certifying personnel; limitation

A. The department shall establish and enforce rules for the classification of
systems for potable water and certifying operating personnel according to
the skill, knowledge and experience necessary within the classification. The
rules shall also provide that operating personnel may be certified on the
basis of training and supervision at the place of employment. The
department may assess and collect reasonable certification fees to reimburse
the cost of certification services, which shall be deposited in the water
quality fee fund established by section 49-210. Such rules apply to all public
water systems involved in the collection, storage, treatment or distribution
of potable water. The rules do not apply to systems that are not public water
systems , including irrigation, industrial or similar systems where the water
is used for nonpotable purposes.

B. For the purposes of this article:

1. A public water system is a water system that:

(a) Provides water for human consumption through pipes or other
constructed conveyances.

(b) Has at least fifteen service connections or regularly serves an average of
at least twenty-five persons daily for at least sixty days a year.

2. A public water system as described in paragraph 1, subdivisions (a) and
(b) of this subsection includes any collection, treatment, storage and
distribution facilities that are under the control of the operator of a public
water system and that are used primarily in connection with the system and
any collection or pretreatment storage facilities that are not under the
control of the operator of a public water system and that are used primarily
in connection with a public water system.

3. A service connection does not include a connection to a system that
delivers water by a constructed conveyance other than a pipe, if any of the
following applies:

(a) The water is used exclusively for purposes other than residential uses
consisting of drinking, cooking or bathing or other similar uses.

(b) The department determines that alternative water is provided for
residential or similar uses for drinking and cooking and that the water
achieves a level of public health protection that is equivalent to the
applicable national primary drinking water regulations.
     ARS 49-352 Classifying systems and certifying personnel;
       limitation (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


(c) The department determines that the water that is provided for residential
or similar uses for drinking, cooking and bathing is centrally treated or is
treated at the point of entry by the water provider, a pass-through entity or
the user to achieve the level of public health protection that is equivalent to
the applicable national primary drinking water regulations.

4. An irrigation district in existence before May 18, 1994 and that provides
primarily agricultural service through a piped water system with only
incidental residential or similar use is not a public water system if the
system or the residential or other similar users of the system comply with
paragraph 3, subdivision (b) or (c) of this subsection.

5. Persons who receive water through connections that are not service
connections pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection are not included in
the computation of the number of persons prescribed by paragraph 1,
subdivision (b) of this subsection.

(Amended by L. 2016, ch. 192,s. 2, eff. 8/5/2016.)
     ARS 49-353 Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-353. Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use

A. The director shall:

1. Exercise general supervision over all matters related to water quality
control of public water systems throughout this state.

2. Prescribe rules regarding the production, treatment, distribution and
testing of potable water by public water systems, except that such rules shall
not apply to irrigation, industrial or similar systems where the water is used
for nonpotable purposes. The rules shall comply with at least the following:

(a) The requirements established by the United States environmental
protection agency for state primary enforcement responsibility of the safe
drinking water act, including the requirements of 40 Code of Federal
Regulations parts 141 and 142.

(b) Require that the plans and specifications for all public water systems,
including water treatment plants, distribution systems, distribution system
extensions, water treatment methods and devices and all appurtenances and
devices for sale to be used in water supplies and public water systems be
submitted with a fee for review to the department. The department, in
establishing fees authorized by this section, shall comply with title 41,
chapter 6. The department shall not set a fee at more than the department's
cost of providing the service for which the fee is charged. State agencies are
exempt from all fees imposed pursuant to this section. Monies collected
from the fees shall be deposited in the water quality fee fund established by
section 49-210. The director may require that plans and specifications for
public water systems include programs to meet future needs for drinking
water and to supply specified minimum quantities of drinking water. The
director shall:

(i) Require that a new public water system demonstrate that the system
possesses adequate managerial and financial capacity to operate in
compliance with this article and the rules adopted pursuant to this article.

(ii) Accept adequate findings of other public authorities regarding the
adequate managerial and financial capacity of a public water system to
operate in compliance with this article and the rules adopted pursuant to
this article.

(c) Provide that no public water system, including a water treatment plant,
distribution system, distribution system extension, water treatment method
or device, appurtenance and device used in water supplies or public water
systems be constructed, reconstructed, installed or initiated before
     ARS 49-353 Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


compliance with the standards and rules has been demonstrated by approval
of the plans and specifications by the department. The rules shall prescribe
minimum standards for the bacteriological, physical and chemical quality of
water distributed through public water systems. The director of
environmental quality may consult with the director of the department of
health services in developing these standards.

(d) Provide for a simplified administrative procedure for approving
structural revisions, additions, extensions or modifications to existing small
public water systems for potable water serving a population of three
thousand three hundred or fewer persons.

(e) Exempt from the plan review requirements of this paragraph, including
any requirements for approval to construct or approval of construction, any
structural revisions, additions, extensions or modifications to public water
systems which are in compliance with the department's rules applicable to
those systems or which are making satisfactory progress towards
compliance under a schedule approved by the department if either of the
following conditions is satisfied:

(i) The revision, addition, extension or modification has a project cost of
twelve thousand five hundred dollars or less.

(ii) The revision, addition, extension or modification is made to a water line
which is not for a subdivision requiring plat approval by a city, town or
county, and has a project cost of more than twelve thousand five hundred
dollars but less than fifty thousand dollars, the design of which is sealed by a
professional engineer registered in this state and the construction of which
is reviewed for conformance with the design by a professional engineer.

(f) Require a notice of compliance with the conditions for exemption upon
the completion of any revisions, additions, extensions or modifications
completed in accordance with subdivision (e) of this paragraph.

(g) Provide for the submission of samples at stated intervals.

(h) Provide for inspection and certification of such water supplies.

(i) Provide for the abatement as public nuisances of any premises,
equipment, process or device, or public water system that does not comply
with the minimum standards and rules.

(j) Provide for records regarding water quality to be kept by owners and
operators of the public water systems and that reports regarding water
quality be filed with the department.
     ARS 49-353 Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


(k) Provide for appropriate actions to be taken if a water supply does not
meet the standards established by the department.

(l) Require a public water system to implement a specified program to
control contamination from backflow, backsiphonage or cross connection.
All such programs shall be consistent with title 41, chapter 16.

(m) Require that public water systems identify and provide notice to persons
that may be affected by lead contamination of their drinking water where
such contamination results from either or both of the following:

(i) The lead content in the construction materials of the public water
distribution system.

(ii) Corrosivity of the water supply sufficient to cause leaching of lead.

(n) Provide for relief from water testing and monitoring requirements for
public water systems qualifying under the federal safe drinking water act (
P.L. 93-523; 88 Stat. 1661 ; P.L. 95-190; 91 Stat. 1393; P.L. 104-182; 110 Stat.
1613), as amended in 1996.

3. Develop and implement strategies to assist public water systems in
acquiring and maintaining the technical, managerial and financial capacity
to operate in compliance with this article and the rules adopted pursuant to
this article. Assistance may be provided based on the needs of the water
system.

B. Pipes , pipe fittings and plumbing fittings and fixtures having a lead
content in excess of a weighted average of one-quarter of one percent lead
when used with respect to the wetted surfaces and solders and flux having a
lead content in excess of two-tenths of one percent shall not be used in the
installation or repair of public water systems or of any plumbing in
residential or nonresidential facilities providing water for human
consumption . The weighted average lead content of a pipe, pipe fitting or
plumbing fitting or fixture shall be calculated as follows:

1. For each wetted component, the percentage of lead in the component shall
be multiplied by the ratio of the wetted surface area of that component to
the total wetted surface area of the entire product to arrive at the weighted
percentage of lead of the component.

2. The weighted percentage of lead of each wetted component shall be added
together, and the sum of these weighted percentages shall constitute the
weighted average lead content of the product.
     ARS 49-353 Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


3. The lead content of the material used to produce a wetted component
shall be used to determine compliance with this subsection.

4. For lead content of materials that are provided as a range, the maximum
content of that range shall be used.

C. S ubsection b of this section does not apply to :

1. L eaded joints necessary for the repair of cast iron pipes.

2. pipes, pipe fittings and plumbing fittings and fixtures, including backflow
preventers, that are used exclusively for nonpotable water services such as
manufacturing, industrial processing, irrigation, outdoor watering or any
other uses where the water is not anticipated to be used for human
consumption.

3. toilets, bidets, urinals, fill valves, flushometer valves, tub fillers, shower
valves or service saddles or water distribution main gate valves that are two
inches in diameter or larger.

D. Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this
section, a public water system may construct, reconstruct, install, extend or
initiate a water supply system, water treatment plant, distribution system,
water treatment method or device, or appurtenance that is used in water
supply or in a public water system when the system is out of compliance
with standards and rules adopted pursuant to this article only if the
construction is necessary to correct the system's noncompliance.

E. T his section and the rules adopted pursuant to this section apply to
public water systems as described by section 49-352, subsection B.

(Amended by L. 2016, ch. 128,s. 122, eff. 6/30/2016. Amended by L. 2016,
ch. 192,s. 3, eff. 8/5/2016.)
ARS 49-353.01 Duties of director; rules; standards; water supply;
     definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-353.01. Duties of director; rules; standards; water supply;
definition

A. The director shall adopt rules which prescribe minimum standards for
the:

1. Sanitary facilities and conditions that shall be maintained by any public
water system.

2. Chemicals, additives and drinking water system components that come
into contact with drinking water that is used by any domestic or industrial
water supply and that is sold or distributed to the public.

B. Chemicals and additives certified as conforming to the national sanitation
foundation standards comply with the standards required by this section.

C. In those instances where chemicals, additives and drinking water system
components that come into contact with drinking water are essential to the
design, construction or operation of the drinking water system and have not
been certified by the national sanitation foundation or have national
sanitation foundation certification but are not available from more than one
source, the standards shall provide for the use of alternatives which include:

1. Chemicals and additives composed entirely of ingredients determined by
the environmental protection agency, the food and drug administration or
other federal agencies as appropriate for addition to potable water or
aqueous food.

2. Chemicals and additives composed entirely of ingredients listed in the
national academy of sciences water chemicals codex.

3. Chemicals, additives and drinking water system components consistent
with the specifications of the American water works association.

4. Chemicals, additives and drinking water system components that are
designed for use in drinking water systems and that are consistent with the
specifications of the American society for testing and materials.

5. Drinking water system components that are historically used or in use in
drinking water systems consistent with standard practice and that have not
been demonstrated during past applications in the United States to
contribute to water contamination.

D. Except as identified by the department as an alternative in accordance
with this section at or after the time of use or installation, drinking water
ARS 49-353.01 Duties of director; rules; standards; water supply;
     definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


system components installed and used after January 1, 1993 shall conform
to the national sanitation foundation standards.

E. The director of the department of environmental quality may consult with
the director of the department of health services in developing the standards
prescribed by this section.

F. For the purposes of this section, "drinking water system components"
means equipment and materials that are used in a drinking water system,
including process media, protective materials, joining and sealing materials,
pipes and related products, mechanical devices and mechanical plumbing
devices.
  ARS 49-354 Enforcement; violation; classification; compliance
   orders; judicial review; injunctive relief; civil administrative
 penalties; interim operator or manager; civil penalties (Arizona
                  Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))
§ 49-354. Enforcement; violation; classification; compliance
orders; judicial review; injunctive relief; civil administrative
penalties; interim operator or manager; civil penalties

A. A person who violates this article or a rule adopted pursuant to this article
is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor for each violation. In the instance of a
continuing violation, each day a violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.

B. If the director determines that a person is in violation of this article or a
rule adopted pursuant to this article, the director may issue an order
requiring compliance immediately or within a specified time period. A
compliance order shall state with reasonable specificity the nature of the
violation, a time for compliance if applicable and the right to a hearing. The
director shall transmit the compliance order to the alleged violator by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery. A compliance
order becomes final and enforceable in the superior court unless within
thirty days after the receipt of the order the alleged violator requests a
hearing before an administrative law judge pursuant to title 41, chapter 6,
article 10. If a hearing is requested, the order does not become final until the
administrative law judge has issued a final decision on the appeal. Except as
provided in section 41-1092.08, subsection H, a final administrative decision
is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. At the
request of the director the attorney general may begin an action in superior
court to enforce orders issued under this subsection after an order becomes
final.

C. If the director determines that a person is in violation of this article or a
rule adopted pursuant to this article to implement the requirements
contained in 40 Code of Federal Regulations parts 141 and 142, including the
national primary drinking water regulations, the director may issue a
compliance order pursuant to subsection B of this section imposing a civil
administrative penalty. All penalty amounts shall be calculated as follows:

1. If the violator is a public water system that serves more than ten thousand
persons, the director may impose a civil administrative penalty of up to
$1,000 per day per violation up to $10,000 per violation.

2. If the violator is a public water system that serves five hundred to ten
thousand persons, the director may impose a civil administrative penalty
that does not exceed $500 per day per violation up to $5,000 per violation.

3. If the violator is a public water system that serves fewer than five hundred
persons, the director may impose a civil administrative penalty that does not
exceed $100 per day per violation up to $1,000 per violation.
  ARS 49-354 Enforcement; violation; classification; compliance
    orders; judicial review; injunctive relief; civil administrative
 penalties; interim operator or manager; civil penalties (Arizona
                    Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))
D. When determining the amount of a civil administrative penalty pursuant
to subsection C of this section, the director shall consider all of the
following:

1. The size of the public water system.

2. Any good faith effort by the public water system to maintain compliance
with national primary drinking water regulations.

3. The seriousness of the violation.

4. Any history of violation of the national primary drinking water
regulations.

5. Any history of recalcitrance by the violator.

6. Any economic benefit resulting from the violation, as an aggravating
factor only.

7. Any other factor deemed relevant.

E. For a public water system that is regulated as a public service corporation
by the corporation commission, the department may make a written request
to the corporation commission to take necessary corrective actions within
thirty calendar days after both of the following conditions occur:

1. The department does any one or more of the following:

(a) Determines that the facility is out of compliance with an administrative
order issued by the department for a violation of this chapter.

(b) Files a civil action against the owner or operator of the public water
system for a violation of this chapter.

(c) Determines that an emergency exists with respect to the public water
system.

2. The department determines that the corporation commission taking
necessary corrective actions would expedite the public water system's return
to compliance with this chapter.

F. Civil administrative penalties may not be recovered pursuant to
subsection C of this section if civil penalties are sought pursuant to
subsection H of this section for the same violation.
  ARS 49-354 Enforcement; violation; classification; compliance
   orders; judicial review; injunctive relief; civil administrative
 penalties; interim operator or manager; civil penalties (Arizona
                     Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))
G. All civil administrative penalties obtained pursuant to subsection C of this
section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the
state general fund.

H. In addition to the authority provided in subsection C of this section, the
attorney general may, and at the request of the director shall, begin an
action in superior court to recover civil penalties in an amount of not more
than $500 per violation per day from any person who violates this article or
a rule adopted pursuant to this article. All civil penalties obtained under this
subsection shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the
state general fund. Civil penalties may not be recovered pursuant to this
subsection if civil administrative penalties are sought pursuant to subsection
C of this section for the same violation.

I. If the director has reason to believe that a person is in violation of this
article or a rule adopted or an order issued pursuant to this article or
believes that a person is creating an actual or potential endangerment to the
public health because of acts performed in violation of this article or a rule
adopted pursuant to this article, the director, through the attorney general,
may request a temporary restraining order, a preliminary injunction, a
permanent injunction or any other relief necessary to protect the public
health.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 254,s. 2, eff. 8/27/2019.)
ARS 49-355 Small drinking water systems fund; grants; definition
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-355. Small drinking water systems fund; grants; definition

A. The small drinking water systems fund is established in the water
infrastructure finance authority of Arizona. The fund consists of monies
appropriated by the legislature. Monies in the fund are exempt from lapsing
under section 35-190. Interest earned on monies in the fund shall be
credited to the fund.

B. Monies from the small drinking water systems fund shall be used to
provide grants, including emergency grants , to interim operators , interim
managers or owners of small drinking water systems to repair , replace or
upgrade water infrastructure as required for compliance with title 40,
chapter 2, this chapter or any rule adopted under title 40, chapter 2 or this
chapter.

C. On recommendation of the department in consultation with the
corporation commission , the water infrastructure finance authority of
Arizona may approve a grant from the fund to an interim operator , an
interim manager or an owner of a small drinking water system pursuant to
this section only if the interim operator , the interim manager or the owner
demonstrates that it requires financial assistance to replace, make repairs to
, rehabilitate or upgrade the drinking water system infrastructure in order to
correct or avoid an interruption in water service or to comply with title 40,
chapter 2, this chapter or any rule adopted under title 40, chapter 2 or this
chapter. The department shall include in its recommendation to the water
infrastructure finance authority of Arizona a written statement that is signed
by the director and that includes a detailed assessment of the direct public
benefit of the grant, a certification that disbursement of monies is in the best
interests of this state and, if applicable, a determination that the grant is in
response to an emergency.

D. Before disbursing monies to an authorized recipient pursuant to this
section, the water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona shall enter into
a written grant agreement with the recipient. The terms of the agreement
shall include at least the following:

1. Performance targets and target dates for matters associated WITH the
grant as determined by the department.

2. Terms for payment of monies to the recipient and repayment to this state
as prescribed by subsection F of this section.

E. The written grant agreement may require that a reasonable percentage of
the total amount of the grant be withheld until the recipient meets specified
performance targets.
ARS 49-355 Small drinking water systems fund; grants; definition
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


F. The water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona may require
repayment to this state of a portion or all of the grant monies with interest at
an agreed rate and on agreed terms. The repayment may be required if
either of the following applies:

1. The water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona in coordination with
the department finds that the grant recipient has not met performance
targets specified in the written grant agreement on or before the dates
specified in the agreement.

2. The written grant agreement prescribes The repayment.

G. Emergency grants made pursuant to this section are exempt from title 41,
chapter 23.

H. For the purposes of this section, "small drinking water system" means a
public water system as prescribed in section 49-352 that serves ten thousand
or fewer persons.

(Amended by L. 2017, ch. 213,s. 1, eff. 8/9/2017. Amended by L. 2015, ch.
241,s. 1, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-356 Water systems; designating lead agency;
 coordinating council (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-356. Water systems; designating lead agency; coordinating
council

A. The department of environmental quality is designated as the lead agency
to review the operations of water systems and the practices of governmental
agencies that oversee and regulate them.

B. A water systems coordinating council is established in the department of
environmental quality consisting of representatives of at least the following
governmental entities and agencies or private water systems:

1. The department of environmental quality.

2. The corporation commission.

3. The state real estate department.

4. The department of water resources.

5. The department of health services.

6. The office of the state fire marshal in the Arizona department of forestry
and fire management.

7. One representative of the health department of a county having a
population exceeding one million five hundred thousand persons.

8. One representative of the health department of a county having a
population exceeding five hundred thousand but not exceeding one million
five hundred thousand persons.

9. One member who is appointed by the director and who represents county
planning and zoning departments.

10. One member who is appointed by the director and who represents a city
or town with a population of less than ten thousand.

11. One member who is appointed by the director and who represents
investor owned water systems.

C. The determination of the number and appointment of representatives for
the departments designated in subsection B, paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this
section shall be made by the director of the respective departments. The
determination of the number and appointment of representatives of the
state real estate department shall be made by the commissioner of the state
real estate department. The determination of the number and appointment
of representatives of the office of the state fire marshal shall be made by the
     ARS 49-356 Water systems; designating lead agency;
 coordinating council (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


state forester. The appointment of representatives under subsection B,
paragraphs 7 and 8 of this section shall be made by the director of the
department of health services.

D. Additional members may be appointed at the discretion of the council. A
representative from the department of environmental quality, selected by
the director, shall serve as chairman of the council. The council shall meet at
least quarterly and may meet more often to conduct its business.

E. The council shall:

1. Develop public education and information programs for owners, operators
and customers of water systems.

2. Identify programs to advise and assist owners and operators of water
systems in management, accounting, engineering and other technical areas.

3. Integrate and coordinate information databases among member agencies.

4. Evaluate the statutory and regulatory authority of governmental entities
regarding water systems and recommend appropriate changes.

5. Develop any other programs and recommendations that would benefit the
owners, operators and customers of water systems and the statutory and
regulatory practices of government agencies.

6. Identify sources of funding to accomplish the purposes of this section.

7. Investigate mechanisms to ensure the financial viability of new water
systems before they begin operation.

(Amended by L. 2017, ch. 258,s. 47, eff. 8/9/2017. Amended by L. 2016, ch.
128,s. 123, eff. 6/30/2016.)
    ARS 49-357 Joint monitoring and testing (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-357. Joint monitoring and testing

The department may allow water systems that are subject to this article to
cooperate in testing for and monitoring water contaminants for compliance
with this article if the director determines that the water systems are located
in the same general area and that the area is hydrologically connected.
    ARS 49-358 Water system compliance assistance program
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-358. Water system compliance assistance program

A. The department shall establish a water system compliance assistance
program to assist water systems in complying with standards imposed by
federal and state law, rules and regulations. The program shall provide
information and technical assistance to water systems.

B. The department may contract with a nonprofit organization which
provides on-site technical assistance to small water systems and which is
dedicated to preserving and enhancing water quality in Arizona.
   ARS 49-360 Monitoring assistance program for public water
  systems; fees; monitoring assistance fund; safe drinking water
  program fund; rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

§ 49-360. Monitoring assistance program for public water
systems; fees; monitoring assistance fund; safe drinking water
program fund; rules

A. The department shall establish a monitoring assistance program to assist
public water systems in complying with monitoring requirements under the
federal safe drinking water act ( P.L. 93-523; 88 Stat. 1660; P.L. 95-190; 91
Stat. 1393; P.L. 104-182; 110 Stat. 1613; 42 United States Code sections 300f
through 300j-26 ), as amended. The program shall provide for the
collection, transportation and analysis of baseline samples from public water
systems in a frequency sufficient to keep the systems in compliance with the
federal safe drinking water act requirements. At a minimum, the program
shall include monitoring for the following categories of contaminants:

1. Volatile organic chemicals.

2. Synthetic organic chemicals.

3. Inorganic chemicals except for copper and lead.

4. Radiochemicals.

B. The department shall contract with one or more private parties or
statewide nonprofit organizations representing water systems to implement
the monitoring assistance program subject to available funding. Contracts
shall be awarded for up to three years, beginning January 1, 1999. Entities
with which the department contracts shall:

1. Provide updated monitoring schedules, developed in conjunction with the
department, to participating water systems.

2. Take samples for participating water systems, allow for certified operators
to take samples and train system personnel to take samples.

3. Assist participating water systems when resampling is required by the
federal safe drinking water act.

4. Assist participating water systems to apply for and qualify for available
interim monitoring relief and waivers.

5. Provide any other on-site technical assistance necessary to help the
participating water systems comply with the monitoring requirements of the
federal safe drinking water act.
   ARS 49-360 Monitoring assistance program for public water
  systems; fees; monitoring assistance fund; safe drinking water
  program fund; rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

C. Any public water systems serving more than ten thousand persons may
elect to participate in the monitoring assistance program subject to the
payment of the fees pursuant to subsection F of this section.

D. The department shall use licensed environmental laboratories as defined
in section 36-495 or laboratories certified or designated by the United States
environmental protection agency to analyze samples collected under the
monitoring assistance program. The department shall establish specific
criteria for measuring contractor qualifications and performance.

E. Each environmental laboratory that the department uses pursuant to
subsection D of this section shall deliver copies of the analysis results to the
water system owner, the monitoring assistance program contractor and the
department.

F. The director shall establish fees for the monitoring assistance program to
be collected from all public water systems serving up to ten thousand
persons. The participating water systems shall remit these fees to the
department for deposit in the monitoring assistance fund.

G. The monitoring assistance fund is established consisting of fees collected
from participating public water systems pursuant to subsection F of this
section. The director shall administer the fund. If the fund has a surplus
after execution of the previous year's contract, any surplus in excess of two
hundred thousand dollars in any year shall be used to reduce the fee for the
subsequent year in a manner consistent with the program invoicing system.
Monies in the fund shall be used to pay the monitoring assistance program
contractors, the environmental laboratories used for the purposes of this
section and administrative costs incurred by the department. Monies in the
fund are exempt from lapsing pursuant to section 35-190. Interest earned on
monies in the fund shall be credited to the fund. The allowable
administrative costs of the department are limited to no more than fifteen
percent of monies deposited in the fund annually or one hundred eighty-
four thousand dollars, whichever is less. As used in this subsection,
administrative costs include only those costs necessary to do the following:

1. Ensure contractor performance and quality control.

2. Administer the contracts.

3. Collect fees as provided in subsection F of this section.

4. Provide direct technical assistance related to the implementation of the
monitoring assistance program only to the extent the department's
assistance is required by this section.
   ARS 49-360 Monitoring assistance program for public water
  systems; fees; monitoring assistance fund; safe drinking water
  program fund; rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

H. The safe drinking water program fund is established consisting of monies
deposited in the fund pursuant to section 42-5304. The director shall
administer the fund. Subject to legislative appropriation, monies in the fund
shall be used to pay for the costs of programs required by this article
incurred by the department. Monies in the fund are exempt from the
provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. Interest
earned on monies in the fund shall be credited to the fund.

I. The department shall adopt rules for the monitoring assistance program.

J. Any site visit made pursuant to this section by a monitoring assistance
program contractor shall not be regarded as an inspection or investigation.
Enforcement actions shall not be taken as a result of these site visits, except
that this section does not affect the authority of the department to enforce
this article pursuant to section 49-354.

(Amended by L. 2017, ch. 308,s. 2, eff. 8/9/2017. Rpld. 1/1/21)
