    ARS 49-241 Permit required to discharge (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-241. Permit required to discharge

A. Unless otherwise provided by this article, any person who discharges or
who owns or operates a facility that discharges shall obtain an aquifer
protection permit from the director.

B. Unless exempted under section 49-250, or unless the director determines
that the facility will be designed, constructed and operated so that there will
be no migration of pollutants directly to the aquifer or to the vadose zone,
the following are considered to be discharging facilities and shall be
operated pursuant to either an individual permit or a general permit,
including agricultural general permits, under this article:

1. Surface impoundments, including holding, storage settling, treatment or
disposal pits, ponds and lagoons.

2. Solid waste disposal facilities except for mining overburden and wall rock
that has not been and will not be subject to mine leaching operations.

3. Injection wells.

4. Land treatment facilities.

5. Facilities that add a pollutant to a salt dome formation, salt bed
formation, dry well or underground cave or mine.

6. Mine tailings piles and ponds.

7. Mine leaching operations.

8. Underground water storage facilities.

9. Sewage treatment facilities, including on-site wastewater treatment
facilities.

10. Wetlands designed and constructed to treat municipal and domestic
wastewater for underground storage.

C. The director shall provide public notice and an opportunity for public
comment on any request for a determination from the director under
subsection B of this section that there will be no migration of pollutants
from a facility. A public hearing may be held at the discretion of the director
if sufficient public comment warrants a hearing. The director may inspect
and may require reasonable conditions and appropriate monitoring and
reporting requirements for a facility managing pollutants that are
determined not to migrate under subsection B of this section. The director
    ARS 49-241 Permit required to discharge (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


may identify types of facilities, available technologies and technical criteria
for facilities that will qualify for a determination. The director's
determination may be revoked on evidence that pollutants have migrated
from the facility. The director may impose a review fee for a determination
under subsection B of this section. Any issuance, denial or revocation of a
determination may be appealed pursuant to section 49-323.

D. The director shall annually make the fee schedule for aquifer protection
permit applications available to the public on request and on the
department's website, and a list of the names and locations of the facilities
that have filed applications for aquifer protection permits, with a description
of the status of each application, is available to the public on request.

E. The director shall prescribe the procedures for aquifer protection permit
applications and fee collection under this section. The director shall deposit,
pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, all monies collected under this
section in the water quality fee fund established by section 49-210 and may
authorize expenditures from the fund, subject to legislative appropriation, to
pay reasonable and necessary costs of processing and issuing permits and
administering the registration program.

(Amended by L. 2018, ch. 192,s. 4, eff. 8/3/2018.)
     ARS 49-241.01 Groundwater protection permit facilities;
  schedule; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-241.01. Groundwater protection permit facilities; schedule;
definition

A. The director shall complete the issuance or denial of aquifer protection
permits or clean closure approval for all groundwater protection permit
facilities on the following schedule:

1. By January 1, 2004, for all groundwater protection permits for nonmining
facilities.

2. By January 1, 2006, for all groundwater protection permits for mining
facilities.

B. The failure by the director to issue or deny an aquifer protection permit
for a groundwater protection permit facility within the time prescribed by
this section does not excuse a person from continuing to comply with all
statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to that person's facility.

C. For purposes of this section, "groundwater protection permit facility"
means either of the following:

1. A facility for which a groundwater quality protection permit was issued
pursuant to the Arizona administrative code and for which an aquifer
protection permit has never been issued.

2. A facility for which a notice of disposal was filed pursuant to the Arizona
administrative code and for which an aquifer protection permit has never
been issued.
    ARS 49-241.02 Payment for aquifer protection permit fees;
      definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-241.02. Payment for aquifer protection permit fees;
definitions

A. Only for a one-time rule making after July 29, 2010, the director shall
establish by rule fees for aquifer protection permits, including maximum
fees and fees for individual or area-wide permits, complex and standard
modifications to permits and clean closure of a nonpermitted facility. After
the one-time rule making, the director shall not increase those fees by rule
without specific statutory authority for the increase. Monies collected
pursuant to this section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and
35-147, in the water quality fee fund established by section 49-210.

B. Each permit action application submitted by the applicant is subject to a
maximum fee.

C. Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an applicant may
request that the department waive the applicable maximum fee for
processing an application for a permit action. On requesting the waiver, the
applicant agrees to pay the total direct costs incurred by the department in
processing the application and the department may process the application
for a permit action.

D. If the department contracts with a consultant under section 49-203, an
applicant may request that the department expedite the application review
by requesting that the department use the services of the consultant and
agreeing to pay to the department the costs of the consultant's services
regardless of the other provisions of this section.

E. The department shall review the revenues derived from and expenses
incurred for processing permit action applications through June 30, 2014 to
determine the adequacy of the maximum fees, and by August 31, 2014, the
department shall issue a report to the legislature on its findings.

F. For the purposes of this section:

1. "Complex modification" means, for purposes of the mining sector, any of
the following:

(a) Any new tailing impoundment, leach pad or stockpile, or process
solution impoundment or conveyance required to have an individual permit
under this article, unless this new facility is within an approved passive
containment capture zone under section 49-243, subsection G, paragraph 1.

(b) The expansion of the footprint of any tailing impoundment, leach pad or
stockpile, or process solution impoundment or conveyance permitted under
this article if the expanded facility is not located within a passive
    ARS 49-241.02 Payment for aquifer protection permit fees;
      definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


containment capture zone under section 49-243, subsection G, paragraph 1,
and the expansion either:

(i) Requires expansion of the pollutant management area and a new or
relocated point of compliance.

(ii) Extends over a geologic unit of higher hydraulic conductivity than the
original facility, unless the original facility is lined and the same liner is
extended to cover the entire expansion area.

(c) A new or expanded waste rock pile is not considered to be a discharging
facility under section 49-241, subsection B and may be categorized as a
complex modification for purposes of this section only if the department
determines all of the following:

(i) The new or expanded waste rock pile otherwise qualifies as a discharging
facility and is not exempted under section 49-250.

(ii) The new or expanded waste rock pile is located outside of a passive
containment capture zone under section 49-243, subsection G, paragraph 1.

(iii) The new or expanded waste rock pile either requires expansion of the
pollutant management area and a new or relocated point of compliance or it
extends over a geologic unit of higher hydraulic conductivity than the
original facility.

2. "Maximum fee" means the maximum amount the director establishes by
rule for services for a permit action.

3. "Permit action" means:

(a) Issuance of an individual or area-wide aquifer protection permit to
operate or to close.

(b) Issuance of a complex modification of an individual or area-wide aquifer
protection permit.

(c) Issuance of a clean closure approval.

(d) Issuance of a standard modification of an individual or area-wide aquifer
protection permit.

(e) Denial of any application.

(f) Processing any permit action application request that the applicant
withdraws.
    ARS 49-241.02 Payment for aquifer protection permit fees;
      definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


G. The department shall adopt a rule to define "complex modification" for
other nonmining aquifer protection permit sectors.
  ARS 49-242 Procedural requirements for individual permits;
 annual registration of permittees; fee (Arizona Revised Statutes
                          (2021 Edition))

§ 49-242. Procedural requirements for individual permits;
annual registration of permittees; fee

A. The director shall prescribe by rule requirements for issuing, denying,
suspending or modifying individual permits, including requirements for
submitting notices, permit applications and any additional information
necessary to determine whether an individual permit should be issued, and
shall prescribe conditions and requirements for individual permits.

B. Each owner of an injection well, a land treatment facility, a dry well, an
on-site wastewater treatment facility with a capacity of more than three
thousand gallons per day, a recharge facility or a facility that discharges to
navigable waters to whom an individual or area-wide permit is issued shall
register the permit with the director each year and pay an annual
registration fee for each permit based on the total daily discharge of
pollutants pursuant to subsection E of this section.

C. Each owner of a surface impoundment, a facility that adds a pollutant to a
salt dome formation, salt bed formation, underground cave or mine, a mine
tailings pile or pond, a mine leaching operation, a sewage or sludge pond or
a wastewater treatment facility to whom an individual or area-wide permit is
issued shall register the permit with the director each year and pay an
annual registration fee for each permit based on the total daily influent of
pollutants pursuant to subsection E of this section.

D. Pending the issuance of individual or area-wide aquifer protection
permits, each owner of a facility that is prescribed in subsection B or C of
this section that is operating on September 27, 1990 pursuant to the filing of
a notice of disposal or a groundwater quality protection permit issued under
title 36 shall register the notice of disposal or the permit with the director
each year and shall pay an annual registration fee for each notice of disposal
or permit based on the total daily influent or discharge of pollutants
pursuant to subsection E of this section.

E. Only for a one-time rule making after the effective date of this
amendment to this section, the director shall establish by rule an annual
registration fee for facilities prescribed by subsections B, C and D of this
section. The fee shall be measured in part by the amount of discharge or
influent per day from the facility. After the one-time rule making, the
director shall not increase those fees by rule without specific statutory
authority for the increase.

F. For a site with more than one permit subject to the requirements of this
section, the owner or operator of the facility at that site shall pay the annual
registration fee prescribed pursuant to subsection E of this section based on
  ARS 49-242 Procedural requirements for individual permits;
 annual registration of permittees; fee (Arizona Revised Statutes
                          (2021 Edition))

the permit that covers the greatest gallons of discharge or influent per day
plus one-half of the annual registration fee for gallons of discharge or
influent for each additional permit.

G. The director shall prescribe the procedures to register the notice of
disposal or permit and collect the fee under this section. The director shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, all monies collected under
this section in the water quality fee fund established by section 49-210 and
may authorize expenditures from the fund to pay the reasonable and
necessary costs of administering the registration program.
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-243. Information and criteria for issuing individual permit;
definition

A. The director shall consider, and the applicant for an individual permit
may be required to furnish with the application, the following information:

1. The design of the discharge facility. When formal as-built submittals are
unavailable, the applicant shall provide sufficient documentation to allow
evaluation of those elements of the facility affecting discharge pursuant to
the demonstration required in subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section.

2. A description of how the facility will be operated.

3. Existing and proposed pollutant control measures.

4. A hydrogeologic study defining and characterizing the discharge impact
area, including the vadose zone.

5. The use of water from aquifers in the discharge impact area.

6. The existing quality of the water in the aquifers in the discharge impact
area.

7. The characteristics of the pollutants discharged by the facility.

8. Closure strategy.

9. Any other relevant federal or state permits issued to the applicant.

10. Any other relevant information the director may require.

B. The director shall issue a permit to a person for a facility other than water
storage at a storage facility pursuant to title 45, chapter 3.1 if the person
demonstrates that either paragraphs 1 and 2 or paragraphs 1 and 3 of this
subsection will be met:

1. That the facility will be so designed, constructed and operated as to ensure
the greatest degree of discharge reduction achievable through application of
the best available demonstrated control technology, processes, operating
methods or other alternatives, including, where practicable, a technology
permitting no discharge of pollutants. In determining best available
demonstrated control technology, processes, operating methods or other
alternatives, the director shall take into account any treatment process
contributing to the discharge, site specific hydrologic and geologic
characteristics and other environmental factors, the opportunity for water
conservation or augmentation and economic impacts of the use of
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


alternative technologies, processes or operating methods on an industry-
wide basis. A discharge reduction to an aquifer achievable solely by means of
site specific characteristics does not, in itself, constitute compliance with
this paragraph. The requirements of this paragraph for wetlands designed
and constructed to treat municipal and domestic wastewater for
underground storage pursuant to section 49-241, subsection B may be met
by including seepage through the bottom of the facility if it is demonstrated
that site characteristics can act to achieve performance levels established as
the best available demonstrated control technology by the director. In
addition, the director shall consider the following factors for existing
facilities:

(a) Toxicity, concentrations and quantities of discharge likely to reach an
aquifer from various types of control technologies.

(b) The total costs of the application of the technology in relation to the
discharge reduction to be achieved from such application.

(c) The age of equipment and facilities involved.

(d) The industrial and control process employed.

(e) The engineering aspects of the application of various types of control
techniques.

(f) Process changes.

(g) Non-water quality environmental impacts.

(h) The extent to which water available for beneficial uses will be conserved
by a particular type of control technology.

2. That pollutants discharged will in no event cause or contribute to a
violation of aquifer water quality standards at the applicable point of
compliance for the facility.

3. That no pollutants discharged will further degrade at the applicable point
of compliance the quality of any aquifer that at the time of the issuance of
the permit violates the aquifer quality standard for that pollutant.

C. An applicant shall satisfy the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 1 of
this section either by making a demonstration that the facility will meet the
criteria of that paragraph or by agreeing to utilize the appropriate
presumptive controls adopted by the director pursuant to section 49-243.01,
subsection A.
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


D. In assessing technology, processes, operating methods and other
alternatives for the purposes of this section, "practicable" means able to be
reasonably done from the standpoint of technical practicality and, except for
pollutants addressed in subsection I of this section, economically achievable
on an industry-wide basis.

E. The determination of economic impact on an industry-wide basis for
purposes of subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section shall take into account
differences in industry sectors, the type and size of the operation and the
reasonableness of applying controls in an arid or semiarid setting.

F. Control measures designed to further reduce discharge may not be
required if the director determines that site specific conditions, in
conjunction with technology, processes, operating methods or other
alternatives are sufficient to meet the requirements of subsection B,
paragraph 1 of this section.

G. A discharging facility at an open pit mining operation shall be deemed to
satisfy the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section if the
director determines that both of the following conditions are satisfied:

1. The mine pit creates a passive containment that is sufficient to capture the
pollutants discharged and that is hydrologically isolated to the extent that it
does not allow pollutant migration from the capture zone. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "passive containment" means natural or engineered
topographical, geological or hydrological control measures that can operate
without continuous maintenance. Monitoring and inspections to confirm
performance of the passive containment do not constitute maintenance.

2. The discharging facility employs additional processes, operating methods
or other alternatives to minimize discharge.

H. The director shall issue a permit to a person for water storage at a storage
facility proposed under title 45, chapter 3.1 if the person demonstrates that
the facility will be so designed, constructed and operated as to ensure that
the project will not cause or contribute to the violation of any standard
adopted pursuant to section 49-223 at the applicable point of compliance for
the facility.

I. With respect to the following pollutants, the permit applicant for a new
facility must meet the criteria of subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section to
limit discharges to the maximum extent practicable regardless of cost:
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. Any organic substance listed by the secretary of the department of health
and human services pursuant to 42 United States Code section 241(b)(4), as
known to be carcinogens or reasonably anticipated to be carcinogens.

2. Any organic substance listed in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section
261.33(e), regardless of whether the substance is a waste subject to
regulation under the resource conservation recovery act ( P.L. 94-580; 90
Stat. 2795).

3. Any organic toxic pollutant that the director lists by rule after determining
that minute amounts of that pollutant in drinking water will present a
substantial short-term or long-term human health threat.

J. The director, by rule, may prescribe requirements for issuing a single
permit applicable to all similar facilities under common ownership and
located in a contiguous geographic area in lieu of an individual permit for
each facility.

K. The director shall consider and may prescribe in the permit the following
terms and conditions as necessary to ensure compliance with this article:

1. Monitoring requirements.

2. Record keeping and reporting requirements.

3. Contingency plan requirements.

4. Discharge limitations.

5. Compliance schedule requirements.

6. Closure requirements and, for a facility that cannot achieve clean closure,
postclosure monitoring and maintenance requirements.

7. Alert levels that, when exceeded, may require adjustments of permit
conditions or appropriate actions as are required by the contingency plans.

8. Such other terms and conditions as the director deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this article.

L. With the consent of the applicant or permittee, the director may include
in an aquifer protection permit for an existing facility the requirement that
the applicant or permittee undertake a remedial action, as defined in section
49-281, to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or
welfare or to the waters of the state resulting from a discharge that occurred
before August 13, 1986, if the following conditions are met:
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. The selection of remedial action, including the level and extent of cleanup,
was determined according to the criteria in section 49-282.06 and the rules
adopted pursuant to that section.

2. The pollutant that was discharged constituted a hazardous substance.

M. With the consent of the applicant or permittee, the director may include
in an aquifer protection permit as a condition the mitigation measures
authorized under section 49-286 instead of issuing a mitigation order under
section 49-286.

N. The director may deny a permit for a facility if the director determines
that the applicant is incapable of fully carrying out the terms and conditions
of the permit, including any conditions that require monitoring or installing
and maintaining discharge control measures. The following apply to an
application for a permit or to an issued permit:

1. The director may require the applicant to furnish information, such as
past performance, including compliance with or violations of similar laws or
rules, and technical and financial competence, relevant to its capability to
comply with the permit terms and conditions.

2. For the purposes of evaluating an applicant's financial competence for
closure, the director may consider a closure strategy and cost estimate
rather than a detailed closure plan. Except for a state or federal agency or a
county, city, town or other local governmental entity, the cost estimate shall
be based on the cost for the applicant or permittee to hire a third party to
conduct the closure strategy or plan unless the financial responsibility
mechanism provided pursuant to this subsection is a self-assurance or a
guarantee and the director determines that the applicant or permittee is
technically and financially capable of closing the facility at its own cost and,
if necessary, of conducting post-closure monitoring and maintenance.
Except for a state or federal agency or a county, city, town or other local
governmental entity, the permittee shall update its cost estimate:

(a) For the duration of the permit on a periodic basis as scheduled in the
permit but not more frequently than once every five years. The cost estimate
shall be updated to adjust for inflation or as necessary to reflect increased or
decreased costs resulting from changes to the facility or to the facility
closure strategy or plan, or to any other relevant conditions related to the
facility.

(b) For a significant amendment as defined by rule adopted by the director,
if required to address incremental changes in the cost estimate that result
from the significant amendment.
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


3. Except for a state or federal agency or a county, city, town or other local
governmental entity, the applicant or permittee shall demonstrate financial
responsibility to cover the estimated costs to close the facility and, if
necessary, to conduct post-closure monitoring and maintenance by
providing to the director for approval a financial assurance mechanism or
combination of mechanisms as prescribed in rules adopted by the director
or in 40 code of federal regulations section 264.143 (f)(1) and (10) as of
january 1, 2014. An applicant or permittee that demonstrates financial
responsibility by means of a self-assurance or guarantee shall aggregate the
estimated closure and post-closure costs for all aquifer protection permits in
this state for which the applicant, permittee or guarantor has provided a
self-assurance or a guarantee in order to determine whether the applicant,
permittee or guarantor meets the applicable financial test.

4. The permittee shall maintain its demonstration of financial responsibility
prescribed in this subsection for the duration of the individual permit.
Except for a state or federal agency or a county, city, town or other local
governmental entity, the permittee shall periodically demonstrate financial
responsibility and report to the director that the financial assurance
mechanism is being maintained as scheduled in the permit and as
prescribed in paragraph 3 of this subsection but not more frequently than
once every two years. The permit's applicable reporting schedule shall be
based on the type of financial assurance mechanism that is selected
pursuant to this subsection.

5. A demonstration of financial responsibility made for a facility as
prescribed by section 49-770 shall suffice, in whole or in part, for any
demonstration of financial responsibility prescribed by this section.

6. A demonstration of financial assurance or competence required under
this section or section 49-770 for a facility shall not be required before
completion of construction but shall be required before the department
issues approval to operate. Financial assurance for a facility is not required
pursuant to this section if substantially similar financial assurance for that
facility is required and has been provided pursuant to other federal, state or
local laws, and evidence of that financial assurance is filed with the director.

7. Financial information required to be supplied under this subsection is
confidential.

O. The director shall require an applicant for an individual permit to submit
evidence that the discharging facility complies with applicable municipal or
county zoning ordinances and regulations. The director shall not issue the
permit unless it appears from the evidence submitted by the applicant that
the facility complies with the applicable zoning ordinances and regulations.
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


P. The director may issue a single area-wide permit applicable to facilities
under common ownership and located in a contiguous geographic area in
lieu of an individual permit for each facility. In issuing an area-wide permit,
the demonstration required under subsection B, paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
section may be considered collectively for all facilities included in the
permit. The director may evaluate discharge reduction collectively for
existing facilities in the pollutant management area by considering any one
or all of the factors set forth in subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section. The
director may consolidate those permit conditions listed in subsection K of
this section that have general applicability to the facilities included in the
area-wide permit. An area-wide permit shall specify all of the following:

1. A description of the pollutant management area and point or points of
compliance.

2. Those facilities that have been evaluated individually for meeting the
criteria in subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section and that are included in
the area-wide permit.

3. For multiple facilities within the pollutant management area that are
substantially similar in nature and, considered alone, would have a small
discharge impact area compared to other facilities in the area, narrative
permit conditions may be used to define the best available demonstrated
control technology, processes, operating methods or other alternatives
consistent with subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section replacing the need
for an individual technical review.

4. A compliance schedule for submittal and evaluation of information
regarding design and discharge for existing facilities within the pollutant
management area that, because of the small size, quantity or quality of
discharge, or physical location with regard to the point or points of
compliance, the director has determined that review for the purposes of
subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section shall be conducted in the future. In
determining the requirements and length of a compliance schedule for an
area-wide permit, the director shall consider the character and impact of the
discharge, the nature of the activities necessary to prepare appropriate
technical submittals, the number of persons potentially affected by the
discharge, the current state of treatment technology, and the age of the
facility.

Q. The director may expedite processing of an aquifer protection permit
application by a permit applicant who proposes a new facility to discharge
liquids that do not contain any pollutant in a concentration that exceeds a
numeric aquifer water quality standard. The director shall not require the
applicant to complete a hydrogeologic study in order to obtain the permit
    ARS 49-243 Information and criteria for issuing individual
   permit; definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


unless the permit applicant is relying on site specific characteristics to meet
the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section or unless the
study is necessary to demonstrate compliance with narrative aquifer water
quality standards. Applications made pursuant to this subsection shall have
precedence and be considered by the department before all other aquifer
protection permit applications.

(Amended by L. 2014, ch. 115,s. 2, eff. 7/24/2014.)
ARS 49-243.01 Presumptive best available demonstrated control
     technology (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-243.01. Presumptive best available demonstrated control
technology

A. The director may establish, by rule, presumptive best available
demonstrated control technology, processes, operating methods or other
alternatives, consistent with section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph 1, for a
class of facilities, if the director determines that the facilities in that class are
substantially similar in nature. Once presumptive controls are established by
rule for a particular class of facilities the director shall review those rules
every five years and, if appropriate, revise the rules for that class of facilities.

B. An owner or operator of a facility who applies for an individual permit
under section 49-243 shall be deemed to have demonstrated that the design
meets the requirements of section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph 1, if the
application incorporates the presumptive controls for that class of facilities
established pursuant to subsection A of this section.

C. A person or group of persons who own or operate facilities that are
required to obtain a permit pursuant to this article may petition the director
to establish by rule presumptive best available demonstrated control
technology, processes, operating methods or other alternatives for that class
of facilities. The director may grant the petition if he determines that the
following conditions have been met:

1. The petition identifies the class of facilities for which rule adoption is
requested.

2. The petition includes a description of the presumptive controls for the
requested class of facilities.

3. The petition complies with section 41-1033.

4. The class of facilities described in the petition satisfies subsection A of this
section.

D. The owner or operator of a facility with a permit shall not be required to
obtain a new or modified permit because of rules adopted or revised
pursuant to subsection A of this section. Any complete application that is
filed before the effective date of any rules adopted or revised pursuant to this
section shall be processed by the department without requiring compliance
with the rules adopted or revised pursuant to subsection A of this section.
ARS 49-244 Point of compliance (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-244. Point of compliance

The director shall designate a point or points of compliance for each facility
receiving a permit under this article. For the purposes of this chapter, the
point of compliance is the point at which compliance must be determined
for either the aquifer water quality standards or, if an aquifer water quality
standard is exceeded at the time the aquifer protection permit is issued, the
requirement that there be no further degradation of the aquifer as provided
in section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph 3. The point of compliance shall
be a vertical plane downgradient of the facility that extends through the
uppermost aquifers underlying that facility. For an aquifer that has no
existing or reasonably foreseeable drinking water beneficial use, the director
may establish monitoring for compliance in another aquifer in lieu of
monitoring in the uppermost aquifer. The point of compliance shall be
determined as follows:

1. Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this section , for a pollutant that is a
hazardous substance the point of compliance is the limit of the pollutant
management area. The pollutant management area is the limit projected in
the horizontal plane of the area on which pollutants are or will be placed.
The pollutant management area includes horizontal space taken up by any
liner, dike or other barrier designed to contain pollutants in the facility. If
the facility contains more than one discharging activity, the pollutant
management area is described by an imaginary line circumscribing the
several discharging activities.

2. A point of compliance for hazardous substances other than that identified
in paragraph 1 of this section may be approved by the director if the facility
owner or operator can demonstrate either:

(a) That it is technically impracticable or inappropriate considering the
likely fate or transport of a pollutant in an aquifer to monitor at the
boundary specified in paragraph 1 of this section.

(b) The alternative point of compliance will allow installation and operation
of the monitoring facilities that are substantially less costly. Such a request
by a facility owner or operator under this paragraph must be supported by
an analysis of the volume and characteristics of the pollutants that may be
discharged and the ability of the vadose zone to attenuate the particular
pollutants that may be discharged, including such factors as climate,
hydrology, geology and soil chemistry. In no event shall an alternative point
of compliance be further from the boundary specified in paragraph 1 of this
section than is necessary for purposes of this paragraph, subdivisions (a)
and (b) of this paragraph , and in no event shall it be so located as to result
in an increased threat to an existing or reasonably foreseeable drinking
ARS 49-244 Point of compliance (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


water source. In addition an alternate compliance point for a hazardous
substance pursuant to this subdivision shall never be further downgradient
than any of the following:

(i) The property boundary.

(ii) Any point of an existing or reasonably foreseeable future drinking water
source.

(iii) Seven hundred fifty feet from the edge of the pollutant management
area.

3. For pollutants that are not hazardous substances the director, in
identifying a point of compliance, shall take into account the volume and
characteristics of the pollutants, the practical difficulties associated with
implementation of applicable water pollution control requirements, whether
the facility is a new facility or an existing facility, water conservation and
augmentation and the site-specific characteristics of the facility, including,
but not limited to, climate, hydrology, geology, soil chemistry and pollutant
levels in the aquifer. The point of compliance must be so located as to ensure
protection of all current and reasonably foreseeable future uses of the
aquifer.

(Amended by L. 2014, ch. 115,s. 3, eff. 7/24/2014.)
 ARS 49-245 Criteria for issuing general permit (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-245. Criteria for issuing general permit

A. The director may issue by rule a general permit for a defined class of
facilities if all of the following apply:

1. The cost of issuing individual permits cannot be justified by any
environmental or public health benefit that may be gained from issuing
individual permits.

2. The facilities, activities or practices in the class are substantially similar in
nature.

3. The director is satisfied that appropriate conditions under a general
permit for operating the facilities or conducting the activity will meet the
applicable requirements in section 49-243 or, as to facilities for which the
director has established best management practices, section 49-246.

B. In addition to other applicable enforcement actions, if a person violates
the conditions of a general permit, the director may revoke the general
permit for that person and require that the person obtain an individual
permit. A general permit may be revoked, modified or suspended at any
time by the director if necessary to comply with this chapter.

C. Rules establishing a general permit shall include terms and conditions to
ensure that all discharges and facilities will meet the requirements of this
chapter and shall provide for the collective or individual revocation of the
general permit if necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.

D. Rules adopted pursuant to subsection A of this section may require a
person who owns or operates a facility seeking coverage under a general
permit to notify the director of the person's intent to operate the facility
pursuant to the general permit and pay the applicable fee required pursuant
to section 49-203.
   ARS 49-245.01 Storm water general permit (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-245.01. Storm water general permit

A. A general permit is issued for facilities used solely for the management of
storm water and that are regulated by the clean water act, including
catchments, impoundments and sumps, provided the following conditions
are met:

1. The owner or operator of the facility has obtained a national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit issued pursuant to the clean water act
for any storm water discharges at the facility, or that the facility has applied,
and not been denied coverage, for this type of permit for any storm water
discharges at the facility.

2. The owner or operator notifies the director that the facility has met the
requirements of paragraph 1 of this subsection.

3. The owner or operator of the facility has in place any required storm
water pollution prevention plan.

B. If the director determines that discharges of storm water from a facility or
facilities covered by this general permit are causing a violation of aquifer
water quality standards at the applicable point of compliance, the director
may revoke the general permit of the facility or facilities or may require that
an individual permit be obtained pursuant to section 49-243. If the director
determines that discharges of storm water from a facility or facilities covered
by this general permit, with reasonable probability, may cause a violation of
aquifer water quality standards at the applicable point of compliance, the
director may require a facility or facilities covered by the general permit to
obtain an individual permit pursuant to section 49-243.
 ARS 49-245.02 General permit for certain discharges associated
 with man-made bodies of water (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))

§ 49-245.02. General permit for certain discharges associated
with man-made bodies of water

A. A general permit is issued for the following discharges:

1. Disposal in vadose zone injection wells of storm water mixed with
reclaimed wastewater or groundwater, or both, from man-made bodies of
water associated with golf courses, parks and residential common areas,
provided that:

(a) The vadose zone injection wells are registered pursuant to section 49-
332.

(b) The discharge occurs only in response to storm events.

(c) With the exception of the aquifer water quality standard for
microbiological contaminants, the reclaimed wastewater meets aquifer
water quality standards before being placed into the body of water, as
documented by a water quality analysis submitted with the vadose zone
injection well registration. The owner or operator of the vadose zone
injection wells shall demonstrate continued compliance with this
subdivision by submitting to the department the results of any monitoring
required as part of an aquifer protection permit or wastewater reuse permit
for any facility providing reclaimed wastewater to the man-made body of
water. For purposes of this general permit, monitoring shall be conducted at
least semiannually. The monitoring results shall be submitted to the
department semiannually beginning six months after registration made to
subdivision (a) of this paragraph.

(d) The vadose zone injection wells shall be located at least one hundred feet
from any water supply well.

(e) A vertical separation of forty feet shall be provided between the bottom
of the vadose zone injection wells and the water table to allow the aquifer
water quality standard for microbiological contaminants to be met in the
uppermost aquifer.

(f) The vadose zone injection wells are not used for any other purpose.

2. Subsurface discharges from man-made bodies of water associated with
golf courses, parks and residential common areas, provided that:

(a) The body of water contains only groundwater, storm water or reclaimed
wastewater, or a combination thereof.
 ARS 49-245.02 General permit for certain discharges associated
 with man-made bodies of water (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))

(b) The reclaimed wastewater complies with the terms of a wastewater reuse
permit before being placed into the body of water.

(c) The body of water is lined and maintained to achieve a hydraulic
conductivity of 10-7 cm/sec or less.

3. Point source discharges to waters of the United States from man-made
bodies of water associated with golf courses, parks and residential common
areas that contain only groundwater, storm water or reclaimed wastewater,
or a combination thereof, provided that:

(a) The discharges are subject to a valid national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit.

(b) The discharges occur only in response to storm events.

(c) With the exception of the aquifer water quality standard for
microbiological contaminants, the reclaimed wastewater meets aquifer
water quality standards before being placed into the body of water.

B. If the director determines that discharges from a facility covered by this
general permit are causing a violation of aquifer water quality standards, the
director may revoke the general permit of the facility or may require that an
individual permit be obtained pursuant to section 49-243. If the director
determines that discharges from a facility covered by this general permit
may cause, with reasonable probability, a violation of aquifer water quality
standards, the director may require the facility to obtain an individual
permit pursuant to section 49-243.
 ARS 49-246 Criteria for developing best management practices
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-246. Criteria for developing best management practices

A. Pursuant to section 49-245, the director may issue a general permit for
facilities requiring implementation of best management practices
appropriate to the class of discharges to be regulated. The director shall:

1. Identify the aquifer water quality problem which must be addressed and
determine that protection of aquifer water quality standards can be
accomplished through development and implementation of a best
management practice for the class of discharge.

2. Assign a specific advisory committee to create the specific class best
management practice to regulate the problem and report its
recommendations to the director on a specified schedule.

3. On issuing a general permit containing best management practices, make
a reasonable effort to notify persons conducting or managing the activity
subject to the best management practices of the requirements of the best
management practices contained in the general permit.

B. The director may establish best management practices for the following
facilities or activities:

1. On-site facilities for urban runoff.

2. Storm sewers.

3. Urban runoff.

4. Silvicultural activities.

5. Septic tank systems.

C. The director may by rule establish best management practices for
additional facilities or activities pursuant to this section, if all of the
following apply:

1. The facilities or activities meet the criteria in section 49-245, subsection A,
paragraphs 1 and 2.

2. The individual facilities or activities within the class are conducted over a
large geographic area.
   ARS 49-247 Agricultural general permits; best management
  practices for regulated agricultural activities (Arizona Revised
                      Statutes (2021 Edition))

§ 49-247. Agricultural general permits; best management
practices for regulated agricultural activities

A. The director shall adopt by rule , pursuant to the requirements of this
section, agricultural general permits consisting of best management
practices for regulated agricultural activities. Agricultural general permits
are not subject to section 49-245 or 49-246. Except as provided in
subsection G of this section, a person is not required to obtain an individual
permit for a regulated agricultural activity.

B. The terms and conditions of agricultural general permits adopted
pursuant to this section shall be agricultural best management practices
which have been determined by the director to be the most practical and
effective means of reducing or preventing the discharge of pollutants by
regulated agricultural activities. Agricultural best management practices
may vary within the state, according to regional and hydrogeologic
conditions. The director may waive the use of best management practices in
a designated region if the director determines that existing regulated
agricultural activities will not cause or contribute to a violation of the
adopted water quality standards.

C. The director shall adopt, by rule, agricultural best management practices .

D. In adopting agricultural best management practices, the director shall
consider:

1. The availability, the effectiveness and the economic and institutional
considerations of alternative technologies.

2. The potential nature and severity of discharges from regulated
agricultural activities and their effect on public health and the environment.

E. In adopting best management practices for regulated agricultural
activities, the director shall require the application of all economically
feasible best management practices which have been determined by the
director to be the most practical and effective means of reducing or
preventing the discharge of pollutants by regulated agricultural activities but
shall not require application of more stringent practices if such a
requirement would result in cessation of the regulated activity.

F. Compliance with best management practices adopted pursuant to this
section constitutes compliance with this article.

G. If the director, after providing a person with notice and an opportunity
for a hearing , determines that the person has violated the applicable best
management practices, the director may revoke the agricultural general
   ARS 49-247 Agricultural general permits; best management
  practices for regulated agricultural activities (Arizona Revised
                      Statutes (2021 Edition))

permit for that person and require that the person obtain a permit pursuant
to section 49-241.

H. The director may periodically reexamine, evaluate and propose any
modification to or waiver of agricultural best management practices
necessary to meet the requirements of this article .

(Amended by L. 2017, ch. 315,s. 21, eff. 8/9/2017.)
ARS 49-248 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-248. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2017, ch. 315,s. 22, eff. 8/9/2017.)
   ARS 49-249 Aquifer pollution information (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-249. Aquifer pollution information

The director shall make available to the public upon request and on the
agency's web site every five years the levels of pollutants in aquifers in this
state and the effects of regulation under this chapter in general and best
management practices in particular on controlling or reducing pollution in
aquifers.
    ARS 49-250 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
      Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-250. [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
Exemptions

A. The director may, by rule, exempt specifically described classes or
categories of facilities from the aquifer protection permit requirements of
this article on a finding either that there is no reasonable probability of
degradation of the aquifer or that aquifer water quality will be maintained
and protected because the discharges from the facilities are regulated under
other federal or state programs that provide the same or greater aquifer
water quality protection as provided by this article.

B. The following are exempt from the aquifer protection permit requirement
of this article:

1. Household and domestic activities.

2. Household gardening, lawn watering, lawn care, landscape maintenance
and related activities.

3. The noncommercial use of consumer products generally available to and
used by the public.

4. Ponds used for watering livestock and wildlife.

5. Mining overburden returned to the excavation site including any common
material that has been excavated and removed from the excavation site and
has not been subjected to any chemical or leaching agent or process of any
kind.

6. Facilities used solely for surface transportation or storage of groundwater,
surface water for beneficial use or reclaimed water that is regulated
pursuant to section 49-203, subsection A, paragraph 6 for beneficial use.

7. Discharge to a community sewer system.

8. Facilities that are required to obtain a permit for the direct reuse of
reclaimed water.

9. Leachate resulting from the direct, natural infiltration of precipitation
through undisturbed regolith or bedrock if pollutants are not added to the
leachate as a result of any material or activity placed or conducted by man
on the ground surface.

10. Surface impoundments used solely to contain storm runoff, except for
surface impoundments regulated by the federal clean water act.
    ARS 49-250 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
      Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


11. Closed facilities. However, if the facility ever resumes operation the
facility shall obtain an aquifer protection permit and the facility shall be
treated as a new facility for purposes of section 49-243.

12. Facilities for the storage of water pursuant to title 45, chapter 3.1 unless
reclaimed water is added.

13. Facilities using central Arizona project water for underground storage
and recovery projects under title 45, chapter 3.1, article 6.

14. Water storage at a groundwater saving facility that has been permitted
under title 45, chapter 3.1.

15. Application of water from any source, including groundwater, surface
water or wastewater, to grow agricultural crops or for landscaping purposes,
except as provided in section 49-247.

16. Discharges to a facility that is exempt pursuant to paragraph 6 if those
discharges are regulated pursuant to 33 United States Code section 1342.

17. Solid waste and special waste facilities when rules addressing aquifer
protection are adopted by the director pursuant to section 49-761 or 49-855
and those facilities obtain plan approval pursuant to those rules. This
exemption shall only apply if the director determines that aquifer water
quality standards will be maintained and protected because the discharges
from those facilities are regulated under rules adopted pursuant to section
49-761 or 49-855 that provide aquifer water quality protection that is equal
to or greater than aquifer water quality protection provided pursuant to this
article.

18. Facilities used in:

(a) Corrective actions taken pursuant to chapter 6, article 1 of this title in
response to a release of a regulated substance as defined in section 49-1001
except for those off-site facilities that receive for treatment or disposal
materials that are contaminated with a regulated substance and that are
received as part of a corrective action.

(b) Response or remedial actions undertaken pursuant to article 5 of this
chapter or pursuant to CERCLA.

(c) Corrective actions taken pursuant to chapter 5, article 1 of this title or the
resource conservation and recovery act of 1976, as amended ( 42 United
States Code sections 6901 through 6992 ).
   ARS 49-250 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
     Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


(d) Other remedial actions that have been reviewed and approved by the
appropriate governmental authority and taken pursuant to applicable
federal or state laws.

19. Municipal solid waste landfills as defined in section 49-701 that have
solid waste facility plan approval pursuant to section 49-762.

20. Storage, treatment or disposal of inert material.

21. Structures that are designed and constructed not to discharge and that
are built on an impermeable barrier that can be visually inspected for
leakage.

22. Pipelines and tanks designed, constructed, operated and regularly
maintained so as not to discharge.

23. Surface impoundments and dry wells that are used to contain storm
water in combination with discharges from one or more of the following
activities or sources:

(a) Firefighting system testing and maintenance.

(b) Potable water sources, including waterline flushings.

(c) Irrigation drainage and lawn watering.

(d) Routine external building wash down without detergents.

(e) Pavement wash water where no spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
material have occurred unless all spilled material has first been removed and
no detergents have been used.

(f) Air conditioning, compressor and steam equipment condensate that has
not contacted a hazardous or toxic material.

(g) Foundation or footing drains in which flows are not contaminated with
process materials.

(h) Occupational safety and health administration or mining safety and
health administration safety equipment.

24. Industrial wastewater treatment facilities designed, constructed and
operated as required by section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph 1 and using
a treatment system approved by the director to treat wastewater to meet
aquifer water quality standards prior to discharge, if that water is stored at a
groundwater storage facility pursuant to title 45, chapter 3.1.
   ARS 49-250 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
     Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


25. Any point source discharge caused by a storm event and authorized in a
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the clean water act.

26. Except for class V wells, any underground injection well covered by a
permit issued under article 3.2 of this chapter or under 42 United State code
section 300 h -1(c). this exemption does not apply until the date that the
United States environmental protection agency approves the department's
underground injection control permit program established pursuant to
article 3.2 of this chapter.

(Amended by L. 2018, ch. 170,s. 3, eff. 8/3/2018.)

This section is set out more than once. See also A.R.S. § 49-2502, effective
ninety days after adjournment.
       ARS 49-250 [Effective ninety days after adjournment]
       Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-250. [Effective ninety days after adjournment] Exemptions

A. The director , by rule, may exempt specifically described classes or
categories of facilities from the aquifer protection permit requirements of
this article on a finding either that there is no reasonable probability of
degradation of the aquifer or that aquifer water quality will be maintained
and protected because the discharges from the facilities are regulated under
other federal or state programs that provide the same or greater aquifer
water quality protection as provided by this article.

B. The following are exempt from the aquifer protection permit requirement
of this article:

1. Household and domestic activities.

2. Household gardening, lawn watering, lawn care, landscape maintenance
and related activities.

3. The noncommercial use of consumer products generally available to and
used by the public.

4. Ponds used for watering livestock and wildlife.

5. Mining overburden returned to the excavation site including any common
material that has been excavated and removed from the excavation site and
has not been subjected to any chemical or leaching agent or process of any
kind.

6. Facilities used solely for surface transportation or storage of groundwater,
surface water for beneficial use or reclaimed water that is regulated
pursuant to section 49-203, subsection A, paragraph 6 for beneficial use.

7. Discharge to a community sewer system.

8. Facilities that are required to obtain a permit for the direct reuse of
reclaimed water.

9. Leachate resulting from the direct, natural infiltration of precipitation
through undisturbed regolith or bedrock if pollutants are not added to the
leachate as a result of any material or activity placed or conducted by man
on the ground surface.

10. Surface impoundments used solely to contain storm runoff, except for
surface impoundments regulated by the federal clean water act.
       ARS 49-250 [Effective ninety days after adjournment]
       Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


11. Closed facilities. However, if the facility ever resumes operation the
facility shall obtain an aquifer protection permit and the facility shall be
treated as a new facility for purposes of section 49-243.

12. Facilities for the storage of water pursuant to title 45, chapter 3.1 unless
reclaimed water is added.

13. Facilities using central Arizona project water for underground storage
and recovery projects under title 45, chapter 3.1, article 6.

14. Water storage at a groundwater saving facility that has been permitted
under title 45, chapter 3.1.

15. Application of water from any source, including groundwater, surface
water or wastewater, to grow agricultural crops or for landscaping purposes,
except as provided in section 49-247.

16. Discharges to a facility that is exempt pursuant to paragraph 6 of this
subsection if those discharges are regulated pursuant to 33 United States
Code section 1342.

17. Solid waste and special waste facilities when rules addressing aquifer
protection are adopted by the director pursuant to section 49-761 or 49-855
and those facilities obtain plan approval pursuant to those rules. This
exemption shall only apply if the director determines that aquifer water
quality standards will be maintained and protected because the discharges
from those facilities are regulated under rules adopted pursuant to section
49-761 or 49-855 that provide aquifer water quality protection that is equal
to or greater than aquifer water quality protection provided pursuant to this
article.

18. Facilities used in:

(a) Corrective actions taken pursuant to chapter 6, article 1 of this title in
response to a release of a regulated substance as defined in section 49-1001
except for those off-site facilities that receive for treatment or disposal
materials that are contaminated with a regulated substance and that are
received as part of a corrective action.

(b) Response or remedial actions undertaken pursuant to article 5 of this
chapter or pursuant to CERCLA.

(c) Corrective actions taken pursuant to chapter 5, article 1 of this title or the
resource conservation and recovery act of 1976, as amended ( 42 United
States Code sections 6901 through 6992).
       ARS 49-250 [Effective ninety days after adjournment]
       Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


(d) Other remedial actions that have been reviewed and approved by the
appropriate governmental authority and taken pursuant to applicable
federal or state laws.

19. Municipal solid waste landfills as defined in section 49-701 that have
solid waste facility plan approval pursuant to section 49-762.

20. Storage, treatment or disposal of inert material.

21. Structures that are designed and constructed not to discharge and that
are built on an impermeable barrier that can be visually inspected for
leakage.

22. Pipelines and tanks designed, constructed, operated and regularly
maintained so as not to discharge.

23. Surface impoundments and dry wells that are used to contain storm
water in combination with discharges from one or more of the following
activities or sources:

(a) Firefighting system testing and maintenance.

(b) Potable water sources, including waterline flushings.

(c) Irrigation drainage and lawn watering.

(d) Routine external building wash down without detergents.

(e) Pavement wash water where no spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
material have occurred unless all spilled material has first been removed and
no detergents have been used.

(f) Air conditioning, compressor and steam equipment condensate that has
not contacted a hazardous or toxic material.

(g) Foundation or footing drains in which flows are not contaminated with
process materials.

(h) Occupational safety and health administration or mining safety and
health administration safety equipment.

24. Industrial wastewater treatment facilities designed, constructed and
operated as required by section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph 1 and using
a treatment system approved by the director to treat wastewater to meet
aquifer water quality standards prior to discharge, if that water is stored at a
groundwater storage facility pursuant to title 45, chapter 3.1.
       ARS 49-250 [Effective ninety days after adjournment]
       Exemptions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


25. Any point source discharge caused by a storm event and authorized in a
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the clean water act.

26. Except for class V wells that are operating as prescribed by rules adopted
pursuant to article 3.3 of this chapter or 42 United States Code section 300
h-1(c), any underground injection well covered by a permit issued under
article 3.3 of this chapter or under 42 United States Code section 300h-1(c).

(Amended by L. 2021, ch. 32,s. 1, eff. ninety days after adjournment.
Amended by L. 2018, ch. 170,s. 3, eff. 8/3/2018.)

This section is set out more than once. See also A.R.S. § 49-2501, effective
until ninety days after adjournment.
   ARS 49-251 Temporary emergency waiver (Arizona Revised
                  Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-251. Temporary emergency waiver

A. A facility owner or operator may apply for, and the director may issue, a
temporary emergency waiver of compliance with the requirement to obtain a
permit or with any applicable permit requirement, surface or aquifer water
quality standard or discharge limitation if the waiver will not endanger
human health or welfare, and if the director finds any of the following:

1. That an emergency of such severity exists that water supplies for domestic
uses will be inadequate to meet demand unless the facility is able to
temporarily exceed one or more water quality standards or discharge
limitations by its discharge into waters of the state.

2. That there has been a breakdown of equipment or upset of operations
resulting in a discharge to waters of the state in excess of one or more water
quality standards or discharge limitations, and both of the following apply:

(a) The breakdown or upset was beyond the control of the facility owner or
operator and the facility was being operated in compliance with this chapter
before the discharge.

(b) The breakdown or upset will be corrected in a reasonable period of time.

3. That the activity that is the subject of the waiver is necessary to protect
human health or welfare or minimize potential adverse impacts to the
environment.

B. A temporary emergency waiver of compliance issued by the director may
be subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as the director deems
necessary. The director may grant a waiver after the occurrence of the
activity that is subject to the waiver if the applicant demonstrates that
exigent circumstances made it impractical to secure the waiver in advance.

C. As a condition to the issuance of a temporary emergency waiver of
compliance, the director may require the facility owner or operator to
provide notice of the waiver to all downstream or downgradient users
directly affected by both:

1. Publication on not less than three consecutive days, or on three
consecutive weeks in the case of weekly publications, in a newspaper or
newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the emergency or
breakdown has occurred or is occurring.

2. Furnishing a copy of the publication to the radio and television stations
serving the area in which the emergency or breakdown has occurred or is
occurring.
   ARS 49-251 Temporary emergency waiver (Arizona Revised
                  Statutes (2021 Edition))


D. The facility owner or operator shall furnish a copy of the publication to
the director.

E. A temporary emergency waiver of compliance issued pursuant to this
section shall remain in effect as long as necessary to accommodate the
emergency but in no event longer than ninety days.

F. A person operating under a temporary emergency waiver is not subject to
section 49-262 or 49-263 for discharges allowed under the temporary
emergency waiver but is subject to article 5 of this chapter.
 ARS 49-252 Closure notification and approval (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-252. Closure notification and approval

A. A person who owns or operates a dry well subject to this article or a
groundwater protection permit facility as defined in section 49-241.01,
subsection C or a person who has been issued a permit pursuant to this
article shall notify the director of the intent to permanently cease an activity
for which the facility or a portion of the facility was designed or operated.

B. Within ninety days of the notification in subsection A of this section, the
owner or operator shall submit a closure plan to the director.

C. Within sixty days of submittal of a complete closure plan, the director
shall determine whether or not the closure plan is for a clean closure.

D. If the director determines that the closure plan is for a clean closure, the
director shall send a letter of approval to the owner or operator and no
aquifer protection permit shall be required.

E. If the director determines that the proposed closure plan achieves a
closure condition other than clean closure, the owner or operator shall
submit either an application for an aquifer protection permit or a request to
modify a current aquifer protection permit in order to address closure
activities and postclosure monitoring and maintenance at the facility. The
director shall require submittal of a permit application or a request to
modify a permit within ninety days or a reasonable time not to exceed one
year, if the applicant can supply a scope of work justifying a schedule for
collecting the technical information necessary to apply.
