     ARS 49-391 Local enforcement of water pretreatment
  requirements; civil penalties (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                            Edition))

ยง 49-391. Local enforcement of water pretreatment requirements;
civil penalties

A. A city, town, county or sanitary district of this state may adopt, amend or
repeal any ordinances necessary for implementing and enforcing the
pretreatment requirements under the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972 ( P.L. 92-500; 86 Stat. 816; 33 United States Code
sections 1251 through 1376 ), as amended, and enforce the ordinances by
imposing and recovering a civil penalty of not more than twenty-five
thousand dollars for each violation as prescribed by this section. For
continuing violations, each day may constitute a separate offense.

B. A city, town, county or sanitary district shall not receive civil penalties
under this section if an interested person, the United States, this state, or
another city, town, county or sanitary district has received civil penalties or
is diligently prosecuting a civil penalty action in a court of the United States
or this state, or in an administrative enforcement proceeding, with respect to
the same allegations, standard, requirement, or order. This state, and any
city, town, county or sanitary district of this state that is or may be affected
by a civil, judicial or administrative action, may intervene as a matter of
right in any pending civil, judicial or administrative action for purposes of
obtaining injunctive or declaratory relief.

C. The city, town, county or sanitary district may seek compliance with
pretreatment ordinances and recovery of the civil penalties provided by this
section either by an action in superior court or by a negotiated settlement
agreement. Before a consent decree filed with superior court or a negotiated
settlement becomes final, the city, town, county or sanitary district seeking
compliance shall provide a period of thirty days for public comment. In
determining the amount of a civil penalty the court and the city, town,
county or sanitary district shall consider:

1. The seriousness of the violation.

2. The economic benefit, if any, resulting from the violation.

3. Any history of such violation.

4. Any good faith efforts to comply with the applicable requirements.

5. The economic impact of the penalty on the violator.

6. Such other factors as justice may require.

D. In addition to the remedies provided in this section, enforcement of such
ordinances may include injunctive or other equitable relief.
     ARS 49-391 Local enforcement of water pretreatment
  requirements; civil penalties (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                            Edition))

E. All monies collected pursuant to an ordinance adopted under this section
shall be deposited with the respective city, town, county or sanitary district.
