 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
              (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 1: Purpose and Definitions

1-A Rules Relating to Lodging

These provisions shall be known as the Rules Relating To Lodging,
hereinafter referred to as "Lodging Rules." These rules shall be liberally
interpreted and applied to promote their underlying purpose of protecting
the public health.

1-B Applicability and Terms Defined

1) APPROVED means acceptable to the Department, based on its
determination as to conformance with appropriate standards and good
public health practice.

2) BED AND BREAKFAST see LODGING PLACES

3) BUNKHOUSE see LODGING PLACES

4) COMMON AREAS are parts of an establishment which are open to all
guests. The term includes, but not by way of limitation, hallways, stairways,
and vending areas.

5) COMMON DRINKING CUPS are cups that are shared by two or more
individuals or by all members of a group.

6) COMMON TOWELS are towels that are shared by two or more
individuals or by all members of a group.

7) CORROSION-RESISTANT MATERIALS means those materials that
maintain their original surface characteristics under prolonged normal use
of cleaning compounds, bactericidal solutions, and other normal uses.

8) COTTAGE see LODGING PLACES

9) CRITICAL VIOLATION means a violation of these rules which is more
likely than other rule violations to present a clear risk of contamination,
illness, or environmental health hazard.

10) DEPARTMENT means the Department of Human Services.

11) DORMITORY see LODGING PLACES

12) EASILY CLEANABLE means that surfaces which are readily accessible
and made of such materials and finish, or so fabricated, that materials may
be effectively removed by normal cleaning methods.
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
              (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


13) EATING AND LODGING PLACE see LODGING PLACES

14) EMPLOYER means the license holder or individual having supervisory
or managerial duties at the licensed establishment.

15) FOOT CANDLE is a standard unit, established as a point of reference,
which is used when measuring quantity of light. One Foot Candle equals the
total intensity of light which falls upon a one square foot surface placed 1
foot away from a point source of light that equals 1 candle power.

16) GUEST HOME see LODGING PLACES

17) HOTEL see LODGING PLACES

18) LODGING PLACES means every building or structure, or any part
thereof, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place
where sleeping accommodations are furnished to the public for business
purposes. The term includes, but not by way of limitation, hotels, motels,
guest homes and cottages. A Lodging License is required for any person or
entity which rents out four or more rooms or cottages. For exceptions to this
definition, please refer to 22 M.R.S.A. §2501.

The term LODGING PLACES include:

a) BED AND BREAKFAST is a unique eating and lodging establishment
where the general public can stay overnight, and are provided with a
"limited menu," serving only a breakfast meal. This meal can be either a full
breakfast or a continental breakfast. Unlike other food establishments, the
meal is prepared in the private home. A lodging license is required
regardless of the number of rooms;

b) BUNKHOUSE means and includes a rough simple building providing
sleeping quarters, with or without bedding; or any other similar rustic
dwelling which provides lodging. Bunkhouses that are part of a licensed
campground or recreational camp are not lodging places;

c) COTTAGE means a single structure where sleeping accommodations are
furnished to the public as a business for day, week, or month, but not for
more than the entire summer season;

d) DORMITORY means a room in any establishment used for sleeping
purposes by four (4) or more unrelated persons;

e) EATING AND LODGING PLACE or LODGING PLACE means every
building or structure or any part thereof kept, used as, maintained as,
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where eating and
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
              (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


sleeping or sleeping accommodations are furnished to the public as a
business, such as hotels, motels, guest homes and cottages;

f) GUEST HOMES, HOTELS, and MOTELS are business establishments
where sleeping accommodations are furnished to the public; and,

g) RECREATIONAL CAMP means and includes day camps, boys' and girls',
family, hunting, fishing and similar camps.(Day camps and boys and girls
camps, as defined in the Rules Relating to Boy's, Girl's, Boy's and Girl's, Day
Camps, and Primitive and Trip Camping 10-144 CMR Chapter 208, are not
lodging places subject to these rules.)

19) MOTEL see LODGING PLACES

20) PLUMBING FIXTURE means a receptacle or device that (1) is
permanently or temporarily connected to the water distribution system of
the premises and which requires a water supply from the system or (2)
which discharges used water, waste materials, or sewage directly or
indirectly into the drainage system of the premises.

21) PLUMBING SYSTEM means the water supply and distribution pipes;
plumbing fixtures and traps; soil, waste, and vent pipes; sanitary and storm
sewers and building drains, including their respective connections, devices,
and appurtenances within the premises; and water-treating equipment.

22) PRIVATE FACILITY is a facility funded by an individual, partnership or
corporation, and which is not a public facility.

23) PROPRIETOR means any person 18 years or older, corporation,
partnership, firm, organization or municipality which operates or is
responsible for the operation of a lodging establishment or eating and
lodging establishment.

24) PUBLIC FACILITY is any facility funded in whole or part by municipal,
state or federal funds. These facilities shall include but not be limited to
public schools, state controlled universities, mental and correctional
facilities, etc.

25) RECREATIONAL CAMP see LODGING PLACES

26) SANITARIAN means a person whose education and experience in the
biological and sanitary sciences qualify him to engage in the promotion and
protection of the public health. He applies technical knowledge to solve
problems of a sanitary nature and develops methods and carries out
procedures for the control of those factors of man's environment which
affect health, safety and well-being.
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
              (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


27) SANITIZATION means effective bactericidal treatment by a process that
provides enough accumulative heat or concentrations of chemicals for a time
sufficient to reduce the bacterial count, including pathogens, to a safe level
on surfaces of utensils and equipment.

28) SERVICE ANIMAL means an animal such as a guide dog, signal dog, or
other animal individually trained to provide assistance to an individual with
a disability.

29) SHALL means that which is required; or the only acceptable method
under these rules.

30) SHOULD means the most preferable procedure or alternative under
these rules.

31) SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES shall mean cups, containers, lids,
closures, plates, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles, straws, placemats,
napkins, doilies, wrapping materials, toothpicks and similar articles which
are constructed wholly or in part from paper, paper board, molded pulp, foil,
wood, plastic, synthetic, or other readily destructible materials, and which
are designed by the manufacturers and used by the public as for one-time,
one-person use and then discarded.

32) TABLEWARE shall mean all multi-use eating and drinking utensils,
including flatware (knives, forks, spoons, dishware), and ice containers.

2 § 2501. Exceptions

Private homes shall not be deemed or considered lodging places and subject
to a license where not more than 3 rooms are let. A license shall not be
required from dormitories of charitable, educational or philanthropic
institutions, fraternity and sorority houses affiliated with educational
institutions, or from private homes used in emergencies for the
accommodation of persons attending conventions, fairs or similar public
gatherings, nor from temporary eating and lodging places for the same, nor
from railroad dining or buffet cars, nor from construction camps, nor from
boarding houses and camps conducted in connection with wood cutting and
logging operations, nor from any boarding care facilities or children's homes
which are licensed under section 7801. [1977, c. 78, §148 (amd).]
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 2 Rooms (Code of Maine
                      Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 2: Rooms

2-A Guest Rooms

1) Sleeping rooms and bathrooms shall provide adequate lighting and
ventilation.

2) Windows and glass doors shall be kept clean and properly maintained.

3) Where natural ventilation only is provided, outside openings shall be
adequately screened.

4) In the absence of windows, air conditioning and artificial lighting
constitutes satisfactory compliance.

5) Where it is impossible to provide ventilation by means of a window in an
external wall or where storm windows are installed incapable of being
opened, some artificial or mechanical means of ventilation capable of
recirculating the air in the room at least six times per hour shall be provided.

6) Window coverings shall be kept clean and properly maintained.

7) Sheets and pillow cases, when provided, shall be clean. In no case shall
sheets or pillow cases, after once being used by any guest, be used for or by
another guest without having been thoroughly cleaned. (Critical
Violation)

8) Any torn and/or soiled bedding, mattresses, sheets or pillow cases shall
not be used.

9) The floors, walls, and ceilings of bedrooms, closets, and storage areas
shall be kept clean and properly maintained.

10) Furniture, fixtures, carpets and other accessories shall be kept clean and
properly maintained.

11) All lodging establishments shall be kept free of roaches, flies, vermin, and
other pests.

12) If cooking and multi-use eating and drinking tableware are provided for
use by guests, the lodging establishment shall wash, rinse and sanitize the
cooking and multi-use eating and drinking tableware, prior to use by
succeeding guests. (Critical Violation)

13) All drinking glasses furnished and used by guests shall be washed and
sanitized after each day of occupancy. Clean glasses, not otherwise
protected, shall be inverted on a clean surface. (Critical Violation)
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 2 Rooms (Code of Maine
                      Rules (2021 Edition))


14) Any and all appliances provided shall be properly maintained and
cleaned.

2-B Common Areas Associated with Sleeping Rooms

1) Floors, walls, ceilings, windows and ventilation shall be kept clean and
properly maintained.

2) Furniture, fixtures, draperies, and other accessories shall be clean and
properly maintained

3) Exterior common areas shall be kept clean and free of litter.

2-C: Toilet and Bath Rooms

1) Floors, walls, ceilings, and all fixtures shall be smooth, durable and easily
cleanable.

2) Carpeting is prohibited in all bath and toilet facilities.

3) An adequate supply of hand soap or detergent shall be available at each
lavatory.

4) Lavatory facilities shall be located within or immediately adjacent to all
toilet rooms or vestibules.

5) An adequate supply of sanitary paper or cloth towels, or an approved
hand drying device, shall be available and conveniently located near the
lavatory.

6) Common towels and common drinking cups are prohibited.

7) Toilet facilities, including the toilet room and fixtures, shall be kept clean
and properly maintained, free of objectionable odors and shall be adequately
vented.

8) A supply of toilet tissue shall be provided at each toilet at all times. Easily
cleanable receptacles shall be provided for waste materials, and such
receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be covered. Such receptacles
shall be emptied at least once a day, and more frequently when necessary, to
prevent excessive accumulation of waste material.

9) Signs requiring employees to wash their hands after using the toilet shall
be posted in all toilet rooms open to the public and employees.

10) Toilets and associated plumbing shall be installed in accordance with
applicable state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations.
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 2 Rooms (Code of Maine
                      Rules (2021 Edition))


2-D Employee Toilet Facilities

1) Toilet facilities shall be adequate and conveniently located, and shall be
accessible to the employees at all times.

2) Signs requiring employees to wash their hands after using the toilet shall
be posted in all employee toilet rooms.

2-E Guest Toilet/Bath Facilities

1) Baths, lavatories, and toilets shall be provided and conveniently located
for each room or unit.

2) Fixtures shall be cleaned and disinfected after each check-out.

3) Rooms equipped with showers shall be provided with hot and cold water
under pressure.

4) During same stay occupancy, fixtures should be cleaned daily and
disinfected at least every three days.
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 3 Gas Appliances (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 3: Gas Appliances

3-A Gas Appliances in Sleeping Rooms

1) All gas appliances, such as hot water heaters, space heaters, domestic
clothes dryers, floor furnaces or similar appliances, shall not be installed or
used in sleeping rooms, or in a room generally kept closed, unless vented to
an effective flue or vent and equipped with an automatic pilot and an
automatic control valve. (Critical Violation)

2) All gas refrigerators, ranges, and hot plates are hereby prohibited in
sleeping rooms. (Critical Violation)
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 4 Life Safety Codes (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 4: Life Safety Codes

4-A Life Safety Code Requirements

1) In order to have a license for an eating and lodging, or lodging
establishment, the establishment shall be in compliance with the
appropriate chapter(s) of the NFPA 101 Life Safety Code. The applicant may
be required to submit verification from the State Fire Marshal's office
confirming the applicant is in compliance with the appropriate chapter of
the NFPA 101 Life Safety Code. (Critical Violation)

2) All new construction or extensively renovated establishments should
comply with the current edition of the "Life Safety Code." (NFPA 101 Life
Safety Code)

4-B Application

The following codes should be complied with in new construction and
extensive renovation of lodging places.

1) The electrical system or electrical equipment shall comply with applicable
state standards and regulations. (Title 32 M.R.S.A. Chapter 17)

2) Installation of oil burning equipment, tanks, and centralized fuel supply
systems shall comply with the applicable state standards and regulations.
(Title 32 M.R.S.A. Chapter 33)

3) All installation of gas appliances and gas piping shall comply with the
most recent edition of National Fire Protection Association standard
adopted by the State of Maine.
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 5 Ice (Code of Maine Rules
                         (2021 Edition))


Chapter 5: Ice

5-A Ice for Consumer Use

1) Ice shall be made from potable water whose source meets the Primary
Drinking Water Standards. The ice making machine shall be located,
installed, operated and maintained so as to prevent contamination of the ice.
To minimize human contact, ice machines should be self dispensing.

2) Ice shall be handled, transported, and stored in such a manner as to be
protected against contamination.

3) If ice crushers are used, they shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.

4) Utensils shall be provided for storing and serving ice in a sanitary
manner. Ice containers, other containers, and scoops, unless they are of the
single-service type, shall be of a smooth, impervious material and designed
to facilitate cleaning.

5) Ice scoops shall be kept in a stainless steel, impervious plastic, or
fiberglass container in an area which is free from contamination. The
container and ice scoop shall be washed and sanitized daily, or mounted
inside the machine so that the handle will not come in contact with ice.

6) Ice containers provided in lodging rooms shall be cleaned and sanitized
between each check-in.

7) If plastic bags are used as liners, they shall be of food grade quality.

8) Ice not made on the premises shall be obtained from a source approved
by the Department.

9) If ice is packaged on the premises to be sold to the public, a license from
the Department of Agriculture is required.
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 6 Water (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 6: Water

6-A Water Supply

1) Water from a public water system, as defined under Maine law, shall meet
the federal water standards established under the National Primary
Drinking Water Rules, 40 CFR Part 141, and the Department of Human
Services Rules Relating to Drinking Water, 10-144 CMR, Chapter 231
(Critical Violation)

2) Water from a licensed establishment that does not meet the definition of
a regulated public water system shall meet state drinking water quality
standards. (Critical Violation)

3) Drinking water acquired from a surface water source shall be adequate, of
a safe, sanitary quality, approved by the Department, and properly
disinfected with chlorine. (Critical Violation)

a) Ground water sources required to be chlorinated and surface water
sources shall maintain a chlorine residual, after 30 minutes contact time, of
0.25 ppm free chlorine or 1.0 ppm total chlorine.

b) A written daily record of chlorine residuals shall be maintained and
available to the Department upon request. A bacteriological analysis and test
for turbidity shall be conducted monthly when the establishment is in
operation.

4) All water, not piped into the lodging establishment directly from the
source, shall be transported, handled, stored and dispensed in a sanitary
manner. (Critical Violation)

5) Bottled and packaged potable water shall be obtained from a source that
complies with all laws and meets the State of Maine Rules Relating to
Bottling Water and the Primary Drinking Water Standards. Such bottled and
packaged water shall be handled and stored in a way that protects it from
contamination. Bottled and packaged potable water shall be dispensed from
the original container. (Critical Violation)

6) Hot and cold water under pressure shall be provided at all sinks,
lavatories, and/or dishwashers during the hours of operation in all lodging
places and in locations where equipment and tableware are washed. An
applicant may be relieved of this requirement upon a demonstration of good
cause, approved by the Department.

7) All private water supplies shall be subject to inspection by the
Department at all times. Water from such sources shall not be used or
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 6 Water (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


supplied to the public unless samples therefrom have been tested and
approved within the preceding twelve (12) month period by the Department,
or other certified laboratories approved by the Department. Establishments
which operate seasonally shall obtain a sample prior to the start of the
season. Additional tests may be required by the Drinking Water Program. A
copy of the water analysis, and other supporting documentation, shall be
available for inspection by the Department at all times. (Critical
Violation)
   10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 7 Wastewater (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 7: Wastewater

7-A Sewage Disposal

1) Water-Carried Sewage: All water-carried sewage shall be disposed of by
means of:

a) Public sewage system; or

b) An approved sewage disposal system that is designed, constructed, and
operated in conformance with the State of Maine Subsurface Wastewater
Disposal Rules, CMR 10-144 Chapter 241; (Critical Violation); or

c) A wastewater discharge system licensed by the Department of
Environmental Protection under Title 38 M.R.S.A. §413 & §414-A as
amended.

2) Non-Water Carried Sewage: Non-water carried sewage disposal facilities
shall not be used, except where water carried disposal methods have been
determined by the Department to be impractical. Under such conditions,
only facilities that have been approved by the Department shall be used, and
operation of these facilities shall be in conformance with applicable State
and local laws, ordinances and regulations. (Critical Violation)
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 8 Rubbish (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 8: Rubbish

8-A Garbage and Trash

1) All garbage and trash shall be collected and stored in covered containers
in such a manner as not to create a nuisance. Garbage and trash storage
containers shall be kept clean, safe and properly maintained. (Critical
Violation)

2) There shall be no fly or mosquito breeding places, rodent harborages, or
undrained areas on the premises. The premises shall be kept neat and clean.
Rubbish, litter and other items not used in the operation of the
establishment shall not be permitted to accumulate on the premises, except
when deemed impractical by the Department.

3) Facilities shall be provided for the washing and storage of garbage and
trash containers, mops, mop buckets, mop wringers, and any other
equipment used in the cleaning of the lodging establishment. Cleaning
facilities shall include combination faucet, hot and cold water under
pressure, hose bib with a backflow prevention device and curbed impervious
pad sloped to drain or other equivalent facilities or methods, except when
deemed impractical by the Department.

4) Garbage containers outside the establishment shall be stored either on an
easily cleaned concrete slab, dense sealed bituminous surface, or a rack
which is at least 12 inches above the ground.
    10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 9 Laundry & Storage
          Facilities (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 9: Laundry & Storage Facilities

9-A Storage

1) Storage rooms or cabinets shall be provided for all supplies, linens, and
equipment.

2) Clean linen and supplies shall be stored in cabinets, or on shelves at least
six inches off the floor in linen and supply storage rooms. Cabinets, shelves,
and storage rooms shall be constructed to facilitate cleaning, and be kept
clean.

3) Soiled linen shall be so handled and stored as not to come in contact with
clean linen.

4) A separate storage area shall be provided for building and ground
maintenance equipment and supplies.

5) Items on housekeeping carts shall be arranged in a manner to prevent
cross-contamination between soiled and cleaned items. Housekeeping carts
shall be kept clean and stored in a clean area.

6) Cleaning/disinfecting compounds shall have a Material Safety Data Sheet
available on the premises for inspection by the Department.

7) Toxic materials shall be properly labeled and stored. (Critical
Violation)

8) Lights shall be shielded in the laundry areas and the linen storage
facilities.
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 10 Records (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 10: Records

10-A Register

1) In accordance with the provisions of 30-A M.R.S.A. §3821 the proprietor
of any lodging place shall keep and maintain on premises, or cause to be
kept and maintained on premises, a register containing the true names of
each guest who has rented, or is renting a room(s), camp(s), and or
cottage(s).

a) Every person operating any hotel or lodging house shall have a register
kept and maintained in the hotel or lodging house at all times. The name of
every guest or person renting or occupying a room or rooms in the hotel or
lodging house shall be written in the register. The person renting the room
or rooms, or someone under that person's direction shall sign the register.
The proprietor of the hotel or lodging house, or the proprietor's agent shall
then write the number of each room assigned to and occupied by each guest,
together with the date that room is rented, opposite the name or names so
registered.

b) The proprietor or the proprietor's agent shall keep and maintain a record
showing the date when the occupant of each room surrenders the room. This
record may be made a part of the register.

c) Both the register and the record must be kept for 2 years and be available
at all reasonable times to the inspection of any lawful agent of the licensing
authority or any full-time law enforcement officer as defined in Title 25,
section 2805. The guest register may be "kept," within the meaning of this
section, when reproduced on any photographic, microfilm or other process
that reproduces the original record.

2) Any person who intentionally or knowingly violates this section is guilty
of a Class E crime and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $500, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days for each
offense, or both.

10-B License

1) No person, corporation, firm or co-partnership may conduct, control,
manage or operate, for compensation, directly or indirectly, any lodging
place unless the same shall be licensed by the Department.

2) Any person, corporation, firm or co-partnership desiring a license shall
submit satisfactory evidence of his, her, or its ability to comply with the
minimum standards of these rules which include documenting the adequacy
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 10 Records (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


of any private wastewater disposal system and/or the quality of the drinking
water.

3) Each new application for, or renewal of, an annual license to operate a
lodging place, shall be submitted to the Department no sooner than 45 days
from the renewal date or opening date. Such application shall be
accompanied by:

a) a non-refundable fee, appropriate to the size of the establishment, and

b) the date and serial number of the last water analysis, if applicable. No
license may be assignable or transferable.

4) Pursuant to State Law, the fee for eating establishments in South
Portland, Lewiston, and Auburn is $10.00, regardless of the number of
seats. This fee shall apply only to those eating establishment which the
municipality inspects for conformance with these rules or equivalent
municipal rules or ordinances. All other establishments must pay the full fee
as determined by the rules administered by the Department.

10-C Posting of License

Licenses issued shall be displayed in a place readily visible to customers or
other persons using the licensed establishment at all times.

10-D Issuance of licenses

1) New licenses: When any applicant is found, based upon an inspection by
the Department or by municipal inspection, to not be in compliance with the
requirements of Departmental regulations the Department may refuse
issuance of the initial license, but shall issue a conditional license for up to
90 days, except when conditions are found which present a serious danger
to the health and safety of the public. Failure by the conditional licensee to
meet the conditions specified by the Department shall permit the
Department to void the license. If conditional licenses are revoked, all fees
shall be retained by the Department.

2) Within thirty days of submission of an application therefore, and upon
payment of the prescribed fee and receipt of required water test results, and
subject to the applicant's compliance with these rules, the Department shall
issue a renewal license to operate an eating and lodging place or lodging
place.

3) The issuance of the license does not provide exemption from other state
or local laws, ordinances or regulations, notwithstanding any other
provision of law.
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 10 Records (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


4) Licenses erroneously issued by the Department are void and shall be
returned to the Department on demand, in a notice delivered by hand or by
certified mail to the licensee. Pursuant to the provisions of Title 22, Chapter
562 of the Maine Revised Statutes, the Department may either file a
complaint seeking suspension or revocation of a license it has issued
pursuant to these rules or, if conditions are found which may endanger the
life, health or safety of persons living in or attending the licensed
establishment, the Department may request an emergency suspension of
license in the District Court.
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 11 Vermin & Animal Control
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 11: Vermin & Animal Control

11-A Insect And Rodent Control

1) Effective control measures shall be utilized to eliminate the presence of
rodents, flies, cockroaches and other vermin on the premises. (Critical
Violation)

2) Screening material shall be not less than 16 mesh to the inch or
equivalent.

3) Screen doors to the outer air shall be self-closing; and screens for
windows, doors, skylights, transoms, and other openings to the outer air
shall be tight-fitting and free of breaks.

4) All openings to the outside shall be effectively protected against the
entrance of rodents. (Critical Violation)

5) The premises shall be kept in such condition as to prevent the harborage
or feeding of vermin. (Critical Violation)

6) Any application(s) of insecticides, pesticides, or rodenticides must be in
compliance with rules of the Department of Agriculture, Food and Rural
Resources, Board of Pesticides Control.

11-B Animal Control

1) Live animals shall be under the animal owner's control at all times and
may be allowed in all areas of the establishment except those where food is
handled and bedding is stored. (Critical Violation)

2) Only service animals are allowed in all areas of the business. (Critical
Violation)
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 12 Plumbing (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 12: Plumbing

12-A Potable Water.

The potable water supply piping shall not be directly connected with any
non-potable water supply system, whereby the non-potable water can be
drawn or discharged into the potable water supply system. (Critical
Violation)

12-B Non-Potable Water

A non-potable water system is permitted for air conditioning, equipment
cooling, and fire protection, and shall be installed according to law. The
piping of any non-potable water system shall be durably identified, so that it
is readily distinguishable from piping that carries potable water.

12-C Backflow

The potable water system shall be installed to preclude the possibility of
backflow. Devices shall be installed to protect against backflow and
backsiphonage at all fixtures and equipment, where an air gap at least twice
the diameter of the water system inlet is not provided between the water
supply inlet and the fixture's flood level rim. No hose shall be attached to a
faucet that is not equipped with a backflow prevention device. (Critical
Violation)

12-D Plumbing.

All plumbing shall be installed, maintained and comply with applicable
state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations.

12-E Water Recreation Facilities

All water recreation facilities shall be maintained and comply with
applicable State Rules relating to Public Swimming Pools and Spas.
   10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 13 Inspections (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 13: Inspections

13-A Establishing Inspection Interval

1) The Department shall inspect lodging establishments upon a regular
basis. The frequency of departmental inspections shall be based upon risk
factors. At all times, the frequency of departmental inspections shall be in
the sole discretion of the Department.

2) The Department may, at its discretion, inspect at more frequent intervals
as necessary to follow-up on complaints or other problems noted on
previous inspections.

3) Each violation of these rules shall be denominated either a critical or non-
critical violation. A non-critical violation is any violation other than a critical
violation.

4) Violations are assigned on a room by room and equipment by equipment
basis.

5) A critical violation is considered the most serious violation.

6) All critical violations shall be corrected as soon as possible, but in any
event, no later than 10 days.

7) Non-critical violations shall be corrected before the next routine
inspection.

8) Establishments which receive multiple critical violations and/or excessive
numbers of non-critical violations may be subject to a follow-up inspection
within 30 days. Failure to correct these violations before the follow-up
inspection may result in any or all of the following action by the
Department:

a) Release of information on the results of the inspection to the news media;

b) Initiation of a complaint in the District Court seeking either suspension or
revocation of license;

c) Refusal to renew the license; and,

d) Imposition of fines of up to $100 per violation per day in accordance with
the provisions of 22 M.R.S.A. §2498 and the Maine Administrative
Procedure Act.

13-B Performance
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 13 Inspections (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Based solely upon its discretion, the Department may determine to conduct
more frequent inspections of an establishment subject to these rules based
upon risk factors including, but not by way of limitation, (1) prior rules
violations; (2) frequency of prior rules violations and (3) substantiated
complaints which did not result in adjudicated rules violations.

13-C Right of Entry and Inspection

Upon demonstration by the Department, or its authorized representative, of
its inspection authority and intent to conduct a compliance inspection, the
operator of a lodging establishment shall allow an inspection of the licensed
premises, conducted at reasonable times, to assure compliance with these
rules. The operator shall allow the Department, or its authorized
representative, access to any records or documents required to be
maintained by these rules.

13-D Refusal, Notification of Right to Access, and Final Request
for Access

In the event a licensee or its agent denies access onto the licensed premises
for the purpose of conducting a compliance inspection, the licensee shall be
advised of its responsibility under 22 M.R.S.A. §2497 to allow the
Department access for the purpose of conducting such an inspection and the
options available to the Department to secure access for the purpose of
conducing such investigation. In the event the licensee persists in denying
access, or prevents the Department from conducting a compliance
inspection, the Department may either issue an inspection order, and
conduct a compliance inspection during reasonable hours or seek other legal
redress including, but not by way of limitation, seeking an administrative
warrant to inspect the premises, license suspension or revocation,
imposition of a fine, or any other remedies available under law to the
Department.

13-E Ceasing Operations and Reporting

1) A license holder shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the
Department if an imminent health hazard may exist, including
circumstances that may endanger public health.

2) A license holder need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.

3) The Department may, should conditions warrant, demand that an
establishment close if conditions exist that constitute conditions that may
endanger public health.
   10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 206 § Chapter 13 Inspections (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


13-F Resumption of Operations

If operations are discontinued as specified under 13-E or otherwise
according to law, the license holder shall obtain approval from the
Department before resuming operations.

13-G Timely Correction

Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the complexity
of the corrective action needed, the Department may agree to or specify a
longer time frame for corrective action, not to exceed 14 calendar days after
the inspection.

13-H Verification and Documentation of Correction

1) If a critical violation is corrected at the time of inspection, the Department
shall record the violation and corrective action on the inspection report.

2) After receiving notification that the license holder has corrected a critical
violation, the Department shall verify correction of the violation, document
the information on an inspection report, and enter the report in the
Department's records.

13-I Time Frame for Correction

1) Except as specified in (2) of this section, the license holder shall correct
noncritical violations by a date and time agreed to or specified by the
Department.

2) The Department may approve a compliance schedule that extends beyond
the time limits specified under (1) of this section, if a written schedule of
compliance is submitted by the license holder and no health hazard exists or
will result from allowing an extended schedule for compliance.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 22 M.R.S.A. §§ 2491 - 2501

EFFECTIVE DATE:

January 1, 2003 - filing 2002-398

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTION:

March 5, 2003 - removed the "Non-Discrimination Notice" because it was
not in the paper filing
