   01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 1 Protecting Waters of the State
 during Pesticide Mixing and Loading Operations (Code of Maine
                      Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 1. Protecting Waters of the State during Pesticide Mixing
and Loading Operations

A. No person shall mix or load any pesticides or fill a sprayer or mix tank
within fifty (50) feet from the high water mark of any surface waters of the
State as defined in 38 M.R.S.A. §361-A(7).

B. No person shall use a pump that pumps pesticide concentrate or
formulation or any hose that has been in contact with pesticide solution to
draw liquid from any surface waters.

C. All pesticide pumping systems that come in contact with any surface
waters shall be equipped with an anti-siphoning device.
     01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 2 Securing Pesticide Product
Containers and Mix Tanks on Sprayers, Nurse Vehicles and Other
  Support Vehicles during Transportation (Code of Maine Rules
                          (2021 Edition))
Section 2. Securing Pesticide Product Containers and Mix Tanks
on Sprayers, Nurse Vehicles and Other Support Vehicles during
Transportation

No person shall transport any pesticide unless it is secured so as to prevent
release of pesticides onto the vehicle or from the vehicle. All tanks, liquid
containers, cartons and bags must be securely held so they may not shift and
become punctured or spilled.
01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 3 Cleaning up Pesticide Spills within
 Setback Zone in Section 1 (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 3. Cleaning up Pesticide Spills within Setback Zone in
Section 1

Any person who spills a pesticide within fifty (50) feet from the high water
mark of any surface water shall take immediate steps to recover the pesticide
by the most efficient means available and remove all contaminated soil to
prevent water contamination.
 01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 4 Exemptions (Code of Maine Rules
                         (2021 Edition))


Section 4. Exemptions

The following persons are exempt from Section 1(A) regarding mixing and
loading within fifty (50) feet of the high water mark of any surface water:

A. Applicators with a variance approved by staff for an impervious
mixing/loading pad with containment features. Applications for a variance
must be submitted to the Board on or before December 31, 1999;

B. Applicators using chemigation equipment specified on labels to draw
water from their tail-water ponds;

C. Commercial applicators using small individually packaged concentrates
to mix no more than five (5) gallons for use in non powered equipment; and

D. Commercial applicators making aquatic applications from boats and
barges.
     01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 5 Restrictions on Pesticide
  Applications to Control Browntail Moths Near Marine Waters
              (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 5. Restrictions on Pesticide Applications to Control
Browntail Moths Near Marine Waters

Pesticide applications for control of browntail moths within 250 feet of the
mean high tide mark adjacent to coastal waters and extending upriver or
upstream to the first bridge are subject to the requirements of this section:

A. Exemptions

The prohibitions and restrictions in Section 5 do not apply to biological
pesticides, to the injection of pesticides directly into the soil or shade and
ornamental trees or to the application of pesticides by licensed commercial
pesticide applicators using non-powered equipment.

B. Prohibitions and Restrictions

I. A person may not apply a pesticide to control browntail moths on shade or
ornamental trees within 50 feet of the mean high water mark.

II. A person may not apply a pesticide to control browntail moths on shade
or ornamental trees in coastal areas located between 50 and 250 feet from
the mean high water mark except in accordance with this subsection.

a. Only products with active ingredients specifically approved by the Board
for this purpose may be applied.

b. Applications may be performed only with a hydraulic hand-held spray gun
or air-assisted sprayers.

c. Applications may be performed only in a manner in which the applicator
directs the spray away from marine waters.

d. Applications may not be made when the wind is blowing toward marine
waters.

e. Applications may be performed only when the wind is equal to or greater
than 2 miles per hour and blowing away from marine waters.
01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 6 Buffer Requirement (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 6. Buffer Requirement

A. No person shall make an outdoor terrestrial broadcast application of
pesticides, except for applications made to control arthropod vectors of
human disease or stinging insects, within twenty-five (25) feet from the
mean high water mark of:

I. Any lake or pond, except ponds that are confined and retained completely
upon the property of one person and do not drain into or have a surficial
connection with any other waters of the State;

II. Rivers

III. Any stream depicted as a solid or broken blue line on the most recent
edition of the U.S. Geological 7.5-minute series topographic map or, if not
available, a 15-minute series topographic map;

IV. Estuarine and marine waters as defined under 38 M.R.S.A. §361-A (5);
or

V. Wetlands, except man-made wetlands that are designed and managed for
agricultural purposes, which are:

a. connected to great ponds at any time of the year; or

b. characterized by visible surface water; or

c. dominated by emergent or aquatic plants.

B. An applicator may vary from the standards imposed under Chapter 29,
Section 6 (A) by obtaining a permit to do so from the Board. Permit
applications shall be made on such forms as the Board provides and shall
include at least the following information:

I. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;

II. The area(s) where pesticides will be applied;

III. The type(s) of pesticides to be applied;

IV. The purpose for which the pesticide application(s) will be made;

V. The approximate application date(s);

VI. The type(s) of application equipment to be employed; and
01 026 Me. Code R. Ch. 29 § 6 Buffer Requirement (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


VII. The particular reasons why the applicant seeks a variance from the
requirements of this section, including a detailed description of the
techniques to be employed to assure that a reasonably equivalent degree of
protection of the water body will be obtained.

C. Within 30 days after a complete application is submitted, the Board or its
staff shall issue a permit if it finds that the applicant will:

I. Achieve a substantially equivalent degree of protection as adherence to the
requirements of this section would provide; or

II. Demonstrate an appropriate balance of risk and benefit; and

III. Will conduct the application in a manner which protects surface waters
as defined in Chapter 29, section 6 (A).

The Board may place conditions on any such permit, and the applicant shall
comply with such conditions. Except as required by the permit, the applicant
shall undertake the application in accordance with all of the procedures
described in his variance request and all other applicable legal standards.
Permits issued by the Board under this section shall not be transferable or
assignable except with further written approval of the Board and shall be
valid only for the period specified in the permit.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 7 M.R.S.A. §§ 601-625 and 22 M.R.S.A. §§ 1471-
A-X.

EFFECTIVE DATE:

April 14, 1999

AMENDED:

February 3, 2008 - filing 2008-35 (except that the major substantive
language of Section 6, which was undergoing legislative review)

May 1, 2008 - filing 2008-154, including Section 6's final adoption

CORRECTIONS:

February, 2014 - agency names, formatting
