10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 1 General Provisions (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


SECTION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. Application and Scope. These rules shall apply to all producers and
processors of bulk drinking water. The rules establish the sanitary
requirements for the installation and maintenance of equipment used in
processing, handling, and storage and the source of water.

B. Constitutionality Clause. Should any section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase of these regulations be declared unconstitutional or invalid
for any reason, the remainder of said regulations shall not be affected
thereby.
 10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 2 Definitions (Code of Maine Rules
                         (2021 Edition))


SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS

BULK WATER: Water intended for potable uses which is transported
across municipal boundaries, in containers greater than 10 gallons for the
purpose of treatment, packaging or human consumption.

DEPARTMENT: The State of Maine Department of Health and Human
Services, Maine CDC, Division of Environmental Health, Drinking Water
Program, or its authorized representative.
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 3 Bulk Water Transport (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


SECTION 3. BULK WATER TRANSPORT

A. Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person
may transport water for commercial purposes by pipeline or other conduit
or by tank truck or in a container greater in size than 10 gallons beyond the
boundaries of the municipality or township in which water is naturally
located, or any bordering municipality or township. 22 M.R.S.A §2660-A
defines when a permit is necessary to transport water for human
consumption across town lines within the State of Maine.

B. Exceptions. The prohibition in this section does not apply to:

1. Any utility water as defined in Title 35-A.

2. Water transported for use in well drilling, construction activities, concrete
mixing, swimming pool filling, servicing portable toilets, firefighting,
hospital operations, aquaculture, agricultural applications or civil
emergencies.

3. Water distilled as a by-product of a manufacturing process.

4. Water transported from a water source that, before July 1, 1987, was used
to supply water for bottling and sale, and which is used exclusively for
bottling and is sold in its pure form, or as a carbonated or flavored beverage
product.

C. Permit Required. The Commissioner, after consultation with the
Public Utilities Commission and the State Geologist, and upon the
recommendations of the Department, may authorize transport of water for
commercial purposes, if the Commissioner finds that:

1. Transport of the water will not constitute a threat to public health, safety
or welfare;

2. The water is not available naturally in the location to which it will be
transported; and

3. Failure to authorize transport of the water would create a substantial
hardship to the potential recipient of the water. Any authorization under this
subsection must be for a period not to exceed 3 years, but may be renewed
subject to the same criteria. [1997, c. 587, §2 (amd).]

D. Emergencies. In case of an emergency, any person may transport water
as necessary for the duration of the emergency, but the person transporting
the water must inform the Department within 3 days and the Department
may determine when the emergency is over.
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 3 Bulk Water Transport (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


E. Penalty. Any person who transports water in violation of this section is
guilty of illegal transport of water. Illegal transport of water is a Class D
crime. Each shipment or day of transport, if by pipeline, is a separate
offense.

F. Source Approval. Bulk water sources shall meet the requirements of
these Rules, or be approved by the state agency having local jurisdiction.
Bulk water shall be loaded, transported and unloaded in a sanitary manner
to ensure the overall safety and quality of the finished water product.

G. Material. Bulk water tankers, storage tanks, hoses, pumps and
connections used for loading, transporting and unloading of bulk water shall
be constructed of materials that are FDA food-grade, smooth, non-
absorbent and easily cleanable such as stainless steel (300 series).

H. Dedicated Equipment. Tankers shall be dedicated for the hauling of
bulk water only, for bottling purposes. Tankers that have been previously
used to haul non-food commodities such as toxic materials, petroleum
products, or other harmful substances shall not be used to haul drinking
water for human consumption. Tankers shall be cleaned, sanitized and
inspected internally for tank integrity on a routine basis.

I. Cleaning and Disinfection Procedures for Mobile Bulk Storage
Containers (MBSC)

1. Inspect the container to ensure that it is watertight and free of debris.
Remove all debris.

2. Disinfect the container for 30 minutes using not less than 100 ppm
chlorine solution. Alternatively, "super ozonated" (greater than 1 ppm) water
may be used. Allow disinfected water to flow through all pipes and
overflows. Use gloves and avoid breathing fumes (wear an OSHA approved
chemical cartridge respirator if necessary). Take all necessary safety
precautions in accordance with OSHA standards.

3. Mix solution throughout the container. Scrub the inside of the container
with a clean long handled brush to remove bio-film and other accumulated
debris.

4. Fill tank completely full, with not less than 10 ppm chlorine solution.
Allow at least 1-hour contact time.

5. Drain and rinse container with operations water.

6. Fill tank with product (potable) water. Ensure that the free chlorine
residual in the container is at least 2 mg/l. If ozonation is utilized, the ozone
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 3 Bulk Water Transport (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


residual in the container shall be at least 0.2 mg/l. Record this measurement
at the time of loading and unloading.

7. Secure and lock access hatches to the container to prevent unauthorized
access and potential contamination.

8. An alternative cleaning and disinfection procedure may be employed in
accordance with the tank manufacturer recommendations and with prior
approval from the Department.

J. Hoses and Connections. Connections (hoses) and pumps used for the
loading and unloading of bulk water shall be properly maintained and stored
to prevent contamination. When not in use, pumps, hoses, connections and
fittings shall be properly capped, securely stored and protected from
possible contamination. Manhole cover gaskets and safety seals shall be
maintained to prevent possible contamination.

K. Bacteria Sampling. Representative samples shall be taken from
shipments of bulk water for the analyses of total coliform bacteria. The
minimum frequency of sampling shall be one sample from each tanker on a
weekly basis, or more frequently as determined by the Department.

L. Records. Shall be maintained for a minimum of two years, to include
the following information:

1. Name of the transporter and/or driver.

2. Tanker number.

3. Date of shipment.

4. Vendor and location of the source water.

5. Name of the receiver and the location to which the water was shipped.

6. Date of delivery.

7. Date of tanker cleaning and sanitization (includes name of operator).

8. The concentration of the disinfectant residual (if required by the local
state agency having jurisdiction) at the time of loading and unloading.

9. Results of total coliform bacteria testing performed on representative
samples taken from shipments of bulk water for each tanker to be performed
at least once per week.
  10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 3 Bulk Water Transport (Code of
                  Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


M. Tank Shed. Stationary (or non-mobile) bulk water storage containers
shall be housed in an enclosed structure with concrete slab (or equivalent)
foundation. The structure shall have adequate floor drainage. Doors and
windows shall have 24-mesh screens to prevent pests from entering.
   10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 4 Records (Code of Maine Rules
                         (2021 Edition))


SECTION 4. RECORDS

A. Records shall be maintained of all inspections and reports. Records of all
water quality bacteriological and chemical testing shall be maintained for 5
years by the water supplier and the Department.

B. Records shall be maintained of daily production operations and shall
include the date, number of units packaged and number of units delivered.
The names of people who obtain water should also be maintained.
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 5 Approval Required (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))


SECTION 5. APPROVAL REQUIRED

A. Facilities. Plans and specifications for any major alternation of existing
bulk water facilities or any new construction must be approved before any
work is commenced.

B. Treatment. Plans and specifications for any alteration of existing
treatment processes or any new treatment process must be approved by the
Department before installation is commenced. It is recommended that at
least thirty (30) working days be allowed for plan review.

C. Change in Ownership. The permit holder shall notify the Department
within 5 days after any change in ownership, and at least 30 days prior to
any change of the name or location of the plant and in all cases promptly
submit to the Department written documentation reflecting such change(s).

D. Change/Addition of a Source. Prior to the time that a water source is
changed or a new source is used in addition to the existing approved
source(s), if the new source is not a public water supply, the permit holder
shall obtain an inspection and approval of the new source by the
governmental authority having jurisdiction, and shall submit a copy of such
inspection and approval to the Department. The permit holder shall also
submit to the Department information in accordance with these Rules, prior
to the sale of products using the new source. If the new source is a public
water supply, the permit holder shall notify the Department of the change or
addition of source.
    10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 6 Orders, Emergency Powers,
          Penalties (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


SECTION 6. ORDERS, EMERGENCY POWERS, PENALTIES

A. Pursuant to 22 M.R.S. §2614, the Department is authorized to issue
orders to any person to comply with the requirements of these regulations,
and is further authorized to petition to compel compliance with such orders.

B. Pursuant to 22 M.R.S. §2614, on receipt of information that due to the
actual or threatened use of contaminants, or for other reasons, there is an
imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons, the
Department may take such actions, including, but not limited to, issuing
emergency orders or commencing court action, as deemed necessary to
protect the public health.

C. Pursuant to 22 M.R.S. §§ 2617 and 2620, any person willfully violating
any portion of these regulations, may be subject to a fine. Each day of
operation in violation shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, as
indicated in subparagraph (2) of 22 M.R.S. §2617, injunctive relief may be
obtained to prevent the violation of any rule, in accordance with State law.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 22 M.R.S. §§ 42 and 2601 et seq.

EFFECTIVE DATE:

December 7, 1979 - filing 79-530, as "Rules Relating to Bottled Water"

AMENDED:

November 1, 1983 - filing 83-334, as "Rules Relating to Bottled Water, Bulk
Water, and Water Vending Machines", referred to as "Bottled Water Rules"
(filed with Secretary of State November 17, 1983)

EFFECTIVE DATE (ELECTRONIC CONVERSION):

May 5, 1996

AMENDED:

May 7, 2001 - filing 2001-161

NON-SUBSTANTIVE CORRECTIONS:

March 30, 2004 - filing C-04-59 (spelling, rule citations and citation format
only)

AMENDED:

May 9, 2016 - filing 2016-083, as "Rules Relating to Bulk Water"
10 144 Me. Code R. Ch. 235 § 6 Orders, Emergency Powers,
      Penalties (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))
