       06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 1 References to Federal
        Regulations. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 1. References to Federal Regulations.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those regulations effective as of July 1,
1998, as they appear in volume 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Section 2. Definitions.

The following definitions apply to Chapters 521 through 529. Other terms
which have specific or limited meaning in the context of a rule are defined in
that rule. Terms not otherwise defined have the meaning given by State Law,
Title 38, Chapter 3 or the Federal Clean Water Act. When a defined term
appears in a definition, the defined term is sometimes placed in quotation
marks as an aid to readers. The definitions in Chapters 521 through 529 are
not intended in any way to define or affect the meaning of terms used in
other rules administered by the Department.

Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or an authorized representative.

Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Federal public law 92-
500 or 33 United States Code, sections 1251, et. seq., and including all
amendments effective on or before January 1, 1997, of the Clean Water Act.

Applicable standards and limitations means all State, interstate, and federal
standards and limitations to which a ``discharge,'' a ``sewage sludge use or
disposal practice,'' or a related activity is subject under the CWA, including
``effluent limitations,'' water quality standards, standards of performance,
toxic effluent standards or prohibitions, ``best management practices,''
pretreatment standards, and ``standards for sewage sludge use or disposal''
under sections 301, 302, 303, 304, 306, 307, 308, 403 and 405 of CWA.

Application means the forms provided by the Department for applying for a
permit, including any additions, revisions or modifications to the forms.

Approved program or approved State means a State or interstate program
which has been approved or authorized by EPA under 40 CFR part 123.

Average monthly discharge limitation means the highest allowable average
of ``daily discharges'' over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all
``daily discharges'' measured during a calendar month divided by the
number of ``daily discharges'' measured during that month. Except,
however, bacteriological tests may be calculated as a geometric mean.

Average weekly discharge limitation means the highest allowable average of
``daily discharges'' over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all ``daily
discharges'' measured during a calendar week divided by the number of
``daily discharges'' measured during that week.

Best management practices (``BMPs'') means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of ``waters of the State.'' BMPs
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw material storage.

BMPs means ``best management practices.''

Commissioner means the Commissioner of the Department of
Environmental Protection, or his or her designee.

Contiguous zone means the entire zone established by the United States
under Article 24 of the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous
Zone.

Continuous discharge means a ``discharge'' which occurs without
interruption throughout the operating hours of the facility, except for
infrequent shutdowns for maintenance, process changes, or other similar
activities.

CWA means the Clean Water Act or the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
Federal public law 92-500 or 33 United States Code, sections 1251, et. seq.,
and including all amendments effective on or before January 1, 1997.

CWA and regulations means the Clean Water Act and applicable regulations
promulgated thereunder, including State program requirements.

Daily discharge means the ``discharge of a pollutant'' measured during a
calendar day or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar
day for purposes of sampling. For pollutants with limitations expressed in
units of mass, the ``daily discharge'' is calculated as the total mass of the
pollutant discharged over the day. For pollutants with limitations expressed
in other units of measurement, the ``daily discharge'' is calculated as the
average measurement of the pollutant over the day.

Department means the Department of Environmental Protection, including
the Board of Environmental Protection and the "Commissioner".

Director means the Regional Administrator or the "Department", as the
context requires, or an authorized representative. ``Director'' normally
means the Department. In some circumstances, however, EPA retains the
authority to take certain actions even when there is an approved State
program. (For example, when EPA has issued an NPDES permit prior to the
approval of a State program, EPA may retain jurisdiction over that permit
after program approval, see 40 CFR 123.1.) In such cases, the term
"Director'' means the Regional Administrator and not the Department.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Discharge means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emptying,
dumping, disposing or other addition of any pollutant to "waters of the
State".

Discharge Monitoring Report (``DMR'') means the EPA uniform national
form, including any subsequent additions, revisions, or modifications for the
reporting of self-monitoring results by permittees. DMRs must be used by
``approved States'' as well as by EPA. EPA will supply DMRs to any
approved State upon request. The EPA national forms may be modified to
substitute the State Agency name, address, logo, and other similar
information, as appropriate, in place of EPA's.

DMR means ``Discharge Monitoring Report.''

Draft permit means a document prepared under Chapter 522 indicating the
Department's tentative decision to issue or deny, modify, revoke and reissue,
terminate, or reissue a ``permit.'' A notice of intent to terminate a permit,
and a notice of intent to deny a permit, as discussed in Chapter 522, are
types of ``draft permits.'' A denial of a request for modification, revocation
and reissuance, or termination, as discussed in Chapter 522, is not a ``draft
permit.'' A ``proposed permit'' is not a ``draft permit.''

Effluent limitation means any restriction imposed by the Department on
quantities, discharge rates, and concentrations of ``pollutants'' which are
``discharged'' from ``point sources'' into ``waters of the State,'' the waters
of the ``contiguous zone,'' or the ocean.

Effluent limitations guidelines means a regulation published by the
Administrator under section 304(b) of CWA to adopt or revise ``effluent
limitations.''

Environmental Protection Agency (``EPA'') means the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.

EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.

Facility or activity means any NPDES ``point source'' or any other facility or
activity (including land or appurtenances thereto) that is subject to
regulation under the NPDES program.

Federal Indian reservation means all land within the limits of any Indian
reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government,
notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way
running through the reservation.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


General permit means an NPDES ``permit'' issued under Chapter 529
authorizing a category of discharges under the CWA within a geographical
area.

Hazardous substance means any substance designated under 40 CFR part
116 pursuant to section 311 of CWA.

Indian lands means real property the title to which is vested in the United
States but held in trust for an Indian Tribe. Jurisdiction over environmental
matters on Indian lands in Maine is as set forth in the Maine Indian Claims
Settlement Act, 25 USC §§ 1721, et. seq., and the Maine Implementing Act,
30 MRSA §§ 6201 et. seq.

Indian Tribe means the Passamaquoddy Tribe and the Penobscot Indian
Nation as defined in 30 MRSA §§ 6203(7) and (10).

Indirect discharger includes, but is not limited to, a non domestic discharger
introducing ``pollutants'' to a ``publicly owned treatment works.''

Interstate agency means an agency of two or more States established by or
under an agreement or compact approved by the Congress, or any other
agency of two or more States having substantial powers or duties pertaining
to the control of pollution as determined and approved by the Administrator
under the CWA and regulations.

Major facility means any NPDES ``facility or activity'' classified as such by
the Regional Administrator, or, in the case of ``approved State programs,''
the Regional Administrator in conjunction with Department.

Maximum daily discharge limitation means the highest allowable ``daily
discharge.''

Municipality means a city, town, plantation or unorganized township.

National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) means the
national program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing,
terminating, monitoring and enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing
pretreatment requirements, under sections 307, 402, 318, and 405 of CWA.
The term includes an ``approved program.''

New discharger means any building, structure, facility, or installation:

(a) From which there is or may be a ``discharge of pollutants;''

(b) That did not commence the ``discharge of pollutants'' at a particular
``site'' prior to August 13, 1979;
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


(c) Which is not a ``new source;'' and

(d) Which has never received a finally effective NPDES permit for discharges
at that ``site.''

This definition includes an ``indirect discharger'' which commences
discharging into ``waters of the State'' after August 13, 1979. It also includes
any existing mobile point source (other than an offshore or coastal oil and
gas exploratory drilling rig or a coastal oil and gas developmental drilling
rig) such as a seafood processing rig, seafood processing vessel, or aggregate
plant, that begins discharging at a ``site'' for which it does not have a
permit; and any offshore or coastal mobile oil and gas exploratory drilling
rig or coastal mobile oil and gas developmental drilling rig that commences
the discharge of pollutants after August 13, 1979, at a ``site'' under EPA's
permitting jurisdiction for which it is not covered by an individual or general
permit and which is located in an area determined by the Regional
Administrator in the issuance of a final permit to be an area or biological
concern. In determining whether an area is an area of biological concern, the
Regional Administrator shall consider the factors specified in 40 CFR
125.122(a) (1) through (10).

An offshore or coastal mobile exploratory drilling rig or coastal mobile
developmental drilling rig will be considered a ``new discharger'' only for
the duration of its discharge in an area of biological concern.

New source means any building, structure, facility, or installation from
which there is or may be a ``discharge of pollutants,'' the construction of
which commenced:

(a) After promulgation of standards of performance under section 306 of
CWA which are applicable to such source, or

(b) After proposal of standards of performance in accordance with section
306 of CWA which are applicable to such source, but only if the standards
are promulgated in accordance with section 306 within 120 days of their
proposal.

NPDES means ``National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.''

Owner or operator means the owner or operator of any "facility or activity"
subject to regulation under the NPDES program. In the case of a publicly
owned facility or activity, the owner must be included as a licensee in any
permit issued under the State NPDES program.

Permit means an authorization, license, or equivalent control document
issued by EPA or an ``approved State'' to implement the requirements of 40
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


CFR parts 122, 123 and 124. ``Permit'' includes an NPDES ``general
permit'' (Chapter 529). Permit does not include any permit which has not
yet been the subject of final agency action, such as a ``draft permit'' or a
``proposed permit.''

Person means an individual, firm, corporation, municipality, quasi-
municipal corporation, state agency, federal agency or other legal entity.

Point source means any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including, but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may
be discharged.

Pollutant means dredged spoil, solid waste, junk, incinerator residue,
sewage, refuse, effluent, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemicals,
biological or radiological materials, oil, petroleum products or byproducts,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, dirt and industrial,
municipal, domestic, commercial or agricultural wastes of any kind.

POTW means ``publicly owned treatment works.''

Primary industry category means any industry category listed in the NRDC
settlement agreement (Natural Resources Defense Council et al. v.Train, 8
E.R.C. 2120 (D.D.C. 1976), modified 12 E.R.C. 1833 (D.D.C.1979)); also
listed in appendix A of Chapter 521.

Privately owned treatment works means any device or system which is (a)
used to treat wastes from any facility whose operator is not the operator of
the treatment works and (b) not a ``POTW.''

Process wastewater means any water which, during manufacturing or
processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or
use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct,
or waste product.

Proposed permit means a State NPDES ``permit'' which is sent to EPA for
review before final issuance by the State. A ``proposed permit'' is not a
``draft permit.''

Publicly owned treatment works (``POTW'') means any facility for the
treatment of pollutants owned by the State or any political subdivision
thereof, any municipality, district, quasi-municipal corporation or other
public entity.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Recommencing discharger means a source which recommences discharge
after terminating operations.

Regional Administrator means the Regional Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency Region I or the authorized representative
of the Regional Administrator.

Schedule of compliance means a schedule of remedial measures included in
a ``permit'', including an enforceable sequence of interim requirements (for
example, actions, operations, or milestone events) leading to compliance
with the CWA and regulations.

Secondary industry category means any industry category which is not a
``primary industry category.''

Secretary means the United States Secretary of the Army, acting through the
Chief of Engineers.

Sewage Sludge means any solid, semisolid, or liquid residue removed during
the treatment of municipal waste water or domestic sewage. Sewage sludge
includes, but is not limited to, solids removed during primary, secondary, or
advanced waste water treatment, scum, septage, portable toilet pumpings,
type III marine sanitation device pumpings (33 CFR part 159), and sewage
sludge products. Sewage sludge does not include grit or screenings, or ash
generated during the incineration of sewage sludge.

Sewage sludge use or disposal practice means the collection, storage,
treatment, transportation, processing, monitoring, use, or disposal of
sewage sludge.

Site means the land or water area where any ``facility or activity is
physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection
with the facility or activity.

State means the State of Maine.

State Director means the Department of Environmental Protection, the
Commissioner or a delegated representative.

State/EPA Agreement means an agreement between the Regional
Administrator and the State which coordinates EPA and State activities,
responsibilities and programs including those under the CWA programs.

Total dissolved solids means the total dissolved (filterable) solids as
determined by use of the method specified in 40 CFR part 136.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Toxic pollutant includes any pollutant listed as toxic under section 307(a)(1)
or, in the case of ``sludge use or disposal practices,'' any pollutant identified
in regulations implementing section 405(d) of the CWA. Toxic pollutant also
includes those substances or combination of substances, including disease
causing agents, which after discharge or upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, including humans either
directly through the environment or indirectly through ingestion through
food chains, will, on the basis of information available to the board either
alone or in combination with other substances already in the receiving
waters or the discharge, cause death, disease, abnormalities, cancer, genetic
mutations, physiological malfunctions, including malfunctions in
reproduction, or physical deformations in such organism or their offspring.

Treatment works treating domestic sewage means a POTW or any other
sewage sludge or waste water treatment devices or systems, regardless of
ownership (including federal facilities), used in the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land
dedicated for the disposal of wastewater or sewage sludge. . For purposes of
this definition, ``domestic sewage'' includes waste and waste water from
humans or household operations that are discharged to or otherwise enter a
treatment works. In States where there is no approved State sludge
management program under section 405(f) of the CWA, the Regional
Administrator may designate any person subject to the standards for sewage
sludge use and disposal in 40 CFR part 503 as a ``treatment works treating
domestic sewage,'' where he or she finds that there is a potential for adverse
effects on public health and the environment from poor sludge quality or
poor sludge handling, use or disposal practices, or where he or she finds that
such designation is necessary to ensure that such person is in compliance
with 40 CFR part 503.

Variance means any mechanism or provision under section 301 or 316 of
CWA or under 40 CFR part 125, or in the applicable ``effluent limitations
guidelines'' which allows modification to or waiver of the generally
applicable effluent limitation requirements or time deadlines of CWA. This
includes provisions which allow the establishment of alternative limitations
based on fundamentally different factors or on sections 301(c), 301(g),
301(h), 301(i), or 316(a) of CWA.

Waters of the State means any and all surface and subsurface waters that are
contained within, flow through, or under or border upon this State or any
portion of the State, including the marginal and high seas, except such
waters as are confined and retained completely upon the property of one
person and do not drain into or connect with any other waters of the State,
but not excluding waters susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 520 § 2 Definitions. (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


commerce, or whose use, degradation or destruction would affect interstate
or foreign commerce.

Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that
under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include
swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.

Whole effluent toxicity means the aggregate toxic effect of an effluent
measured directly by a toxicity test.

AUTHORITY: 38 MRSA § 341-D

APA EFFECTIVE DATE: April 5, 1999

EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule became effective upon the approval of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency of related parts of the State's application
to administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program
of the Federal Clean Water Act, pursuant to 40 CFR part 123. This approval
was granted through a January 12, 2001 (the presumed effective date) letter
from Mindy S. Lubber of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency to Governor Angus S. King, Jr. The APA Office was notified of this
action through a memo, which included a copy of the Lubber letter, from
Dennis Merrill of the Department of Environmental Protection dated
January 23, 2001.
