       06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 1 References to Federal
        Regulations. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 1. References to Federal Regulations.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those regulations effective as of July 1,
2006, as they appear in volume 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR), U.S. Government Printing Office, 732 N Capitol St. NW, Washington,
D.C.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 2 Issuance of general permits.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 2. Issuance of general permits. [see 40 CFR 122.28]

(a) Coverage. The Department may issue a general permit in accordance
with the following:

(1) Area. The general permit shall be written to cover one or more categories
or subcategories of discharges or facilities described in the permit under
paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, except those covered by individual
permits, within a geographic area. The area should correspond to existing
geographic or political boundaries, such as:

(i) Designated planning areas under sections 208 and 303 of CWA;

(ii) Sewer districts or sewer authorities;

(iii) City, county, or State political boundaries;

(iv) State highway systems;

(v) Standard metropolitan statistical areas as defined by the Office of
Management and Budget;

(vi) Urbanized areas as designated by the Bureau of the Census according to
criteria in 30 FR 15202 (May 1, 1974); or

(vii) Any other appropriate division or combination of boundaries.

(2) Sources. The general permit may be written to regulate one or more
categories or subcategories of discharges or facilities, within the area
described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, where the sources within a
covered subcategory of discharges are either:

(i) Storm water point sources; or

(ii) One or more categories or subcategories of point sources other than
storm water point sources, or a category of ''treatment works treating
domestic sewage,'' if the sources or ''treatment works treating domestic
sewage'' within each category or subcategory all:

(A) Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;

(B) Discharge the same types of wastes;

(C) Require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions;

(D) Require the same or similar monitoring; and
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 2 Issuance of general permits.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(E) In the opinion of the Department, are more appropriately controlled
under a general permit than under individual permits.

(3) Where sources within a specific category or subcategory of dischargers
are subject to water quality-based limits imposed pursuant to Chapter
523(5), the sources in that specific category or subcategory shall be subject
to the same water quality-based effluent limitations.

(4) The general permit must clearly identify the applicable conditions for
each category or subcategory of dischargers or treatment works treating
domestic sewage covered by the permit.

(5) The general permit may exclude specified sources or areas from
coverage.

(b) Administration

(1) In general. General permits may be issued, modified, revoked and
reissued, or terminated in accordance with applicable requirements of
Chapter 522. The Department may make proposals for initial or modified
general permits where it finds a need compatible with the intent of this rule.
Other persons may petition the Department to adopt or modify a general
permit.

(2) Authorization to discharge

(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(v) and (b)(2)(vi) of this section,
dischargers (or treatment works treating domestic sewage) seeking coverage
under a general permit shall submit to the Department a written notice of
intent to be covered by the general permit. A discharger (or treatment works
treating domestic sewage) who fails to submit a notice of intent in
accordance with the terms of the permit is not authorized to discharge,
under the terms of the general permit unless the general permit, in
accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, contains a provision
that a notice of intent is not required or the Department notifies a discharger
(or treatment works treating domestic sewage) that it is covered by a general
permit in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section. A complete
and timely notice of intent (NOI), to be covered in accordance with general
permit requirements, fulfills the requirements for permit applications for
purposes Chapter 521.

(ii) The contents of the notice of intent shall be specified in the general
permit and shall require the submission of information necessary for
adequate program implementation, including at a minimum, the legal name
and address of the owner or operator, the facility name and address, type of
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 2 Issuance of general permits.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


facility or discharges, and the receiving stream(s). General permits for storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity from inactive mining,
inactive oil and gas operations, or inactive landfills occurring on Federal
lands where an operator cannot be identified may contain alternative notice
of intent requirements. All notices of intent shall be signed in accordance
with Chapter 521. Notices of intent for coverage under a general permit for
concentrated animal feeding operations must include the information
specified in Chapter 521(4)(i)(1), including a topographic map.

(iii) General permits shall specify the deadlines for submitting notices of
intent to be covered and the date(s) when a discharger is authorized to
discharge under the permit;

(iv) General permits shall specify whether a discharger (or treatment works
treating domestic sewage) that has submitted a completed and timely notice
of intent to be covered in accordance with the general permit and that is
eligible for coverage under the permit, is authorized to discharge, in
accordance with the permit either upon receipt of the notice of intent by the
Department, after a waiting period specified in the general permit, on a date
specified in the general permit, or upon receipt of notification of inclusion
by the Department. Coverage may be terminated or revoked in accordance
with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(v) Discharges other than discharges from publicly owned treatment works,
combined sewer overflows, municipal separate storm sewer systems,
primary industrial facilities, and storm water discharges associated with
industrial activity, may, at the discretion of the Department, be authorized
to discharge under a general permit without submitting a notice of intent
where the Department finds that a notice of intent requirement would be
inappropriate. In such cases, the Department may require some other form
of notification. In making such a finding, the Department shall consider: the
type of discharge; the expected nature of the discharge; the potential for
toxic and conventional pollutants in the discharges; the expected volume of
the discharges; other means of identifying discharges covered by the permit;
and the estimated number of discharges to be covered by the permit. The
Department shall provide in the public notice of the general permit the
reasons for not requiring a notice of intent.

(vi) The Department may notify a discharger (or treatment works treating
domestic sewage) that it is covered by a general permit, even if the
discharger (or treatment works treating domestic sewage) has not submitted
a notice of intent to be covered. A discharger (or treatment works treating
domestic sewage) so notified may request an individual permit under
paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 2 Issuance of general permits.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) Requiring an individual permit

(i) The Department may require any discharger authorized by a general
permit to apply for and obtain an alternative general permit or an individual
permit. Any interested person may petition the Department to take action
under this paragraph. A discharger must file an application for an individual
permit within 30 days of receiving a notice from the Department, unless
another time is specified by the Department. Coverage under the general
permit is terminated upon final action by the Department on an application
for an alternative general permit or an individual permit, or if no application
is filed within the time specified by the Department. Cases where an
individual permit may be required include the following:

(A) The discharger or ``treatment works treating domestic sewage" is not in
compliance with the conditions of the general permit;

(B) A change has occurred in the availability of demonstrated technology or
practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point
source or treatment works treating domestic sewage;

(C) Effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated for point sources covered
by the general permit;

(D) A Water Quality Management plan containing requirements applicable
to such point sources is approved;

(E) Circumstances have changed since the time of the request to be covered
so that the discharger is no longer appropriately controlled under the
general permit, or either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination
of the authorized discharge is necessary;

(F) [reserved]; or

(G) The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollutants. In making this
determination, the Department may consider the following factors:

(1) The location of the discharge with respect to waters of the State;

(2) The size of the discharge;

(3) The quantity and nature of the pollutants discharged to waters of the
State; and

(4) Other relevant factors;

(ii) [reserved]
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 2 Issuance of general permits.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(iii) Any owner or operator eligible for coverage under a general permit may
request to be excluded from the coverage of the general permit by applying
for an individual permit. The owner or operator shall submit an application
under Chapter 521, with reasons supporting the request, to the Department
no later than 90 days after issuance of the general permit. The request shall
be processed under Chapter 522. The request shall be granted by issuing of
any individual permit if the reasons cited by the owner or operator are
adequate to support the request.

(iv) When an individual permit is issued to an owner or operator otherwise
subject to a general permit, the applicability of the general permit to the
individual permittee is automatically terminated on the effective date of the
individual permit.

(v) A source excluded from a general permit solely because it already has an
individual permit may request that the individual permit be revoked, and
that it be covered by the general permit. Upon revocation of the individual
permit, the general permit shall apply to the source.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 3 Terms and conditions applicable
   to all general permits (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 3. Terms and conditions applicable to all general permits

(a) Notice Required. Prior to discharging under the terms of a general
permit, a person must file with the Department an initial Notice of Intent
(NOI) for coverage on a form provided by the Department for the specific
discharge category. A copy of the initial NOI form shall be provided by the
applicant to the municipal office of the town or city, or the county
commissioners in the case of an unorganized territory, in which the
discharge will occur at the time it is submitted to the Department. A check
for the appropriate fee amount must accompany each NOI in order for the
application for coverage under the general permit to be considered to be
complete.

Public notice. The Department may specify in a general permit a procedure
for providing public notice of the notice of intent or other coverage filings
submitted to the Department. Whether such notice will be required, the type
of notice and the timing of notice will be determined with consideration to
the nature of the discharge, the anticipated level of public interest in the
activity and the substance of the filing required by the general permit.
Means of providing public notice may include but are not limited to
publication in a newspaper, notifying abutters, filing a notice with the
municipal office and/or county commissioners or posting on an internet web
site maintained by the Department.

(b) Effective date of coverage. The Department must notify an applicant for
coverage under a general permit within a time period specified in the
general permit as to whether or not coverage for the specific discharge is
accepted. If the Department does not notify the applicant within the
specified time, the NOI is deemed to be accepted and coverage is granted. In
the event coverage is not granted, the Department shall notify the applicant
of the reasons for not granting coverage. Discharges not acceptable for
general permit coverage may apply for issuance of an individual discharge
permit.

(c) Continuing Coverage. Coverage under an existing general permit will be
continued upon payment of an applicable fee(s), provided there are no
significant or material changes in the discharge as described in the NOI. If
significant or material changes occur or are proposed, the person having
filed the NOI must notify the Department, as specified in the general permit.
Prior to expiration of a general permit, the Department shall make a
determination if it is to be renewed, and, if so, will commence renewal
proceedings. If the general permit is to be renewed, it shall remain in force
until the Department takes final action on the renewal. Upon reissuance of a
new General Permit, persons wishing to continue coverage must so notify
the Department as specified in the new general permit.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 3 Terms and conditions applicable
   to all general permits (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(d) Transfers of ownership. In the event that the ownership of a discharge is
transferred to a new owner, the new owner may obtain coverage under the
general permit as specified in the general permit. The new owner may be
required to either file a new NOI or to notify the Department in writing to
transfer the NOI. If changes in the discharge are proposed, a new NOI must
be filed. The prior owner may be required to file a notice of termination or
cosign an application for transfer.

(e) Sampling and test procedures. Where a general permit requires sampling
and testing of an effluent or other waste stream, all samples and
measurements shall be representative of the volume and nature of the
activity being monitored. The sampling, preservation, handling and
analytical methods used must conform with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water, American Public Health
Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW Washington, D.C., 20th edition or
methods referenced in 40 CFR Part 136. However, different but equivalent
methods are allowable if they receive prior written approval from the
Department.

(f) Monitoring requirements. In addition to monitoring required by the
conditions of specific general permit, the Department may require
additional monitoring of an individual discharge as may be reasonably
necessary in order to characterize the nature, volume or other attributes of
that discharge or its sources.

(g) Removed substances. Solids, sludges, filter backwash or other pollutants
removed or resulting from the treatment of wastewaters shall be disposed of
in a manner approved by the Department.

(h) Other applicable conditions. The following conditions also apply to
discharges pursuant to any general permit and are incorporated herein as if
fully set forth.

(1) Chapter 523, Section 2 (applicable to all discharges)

(2) Chapter 523, Section 3 (applicable to certain categories of discharges)

STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 38 MRSA §341-D

EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule became effective upon the approval of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency of related parts of the State's application
to administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program
of the Federal Clean Water Act, pursuant to 40 CFR part 123. This approval
was granted through a January 12, 2001 (the presumed effective date) letter
from Mindy S. Lubber of the United States Environmental Protection
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 529 § 3 Terms and conditions applicable
   to all general permits (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Agency to Governor Angus S. King, Jr. The APA Office was notified of this
action through a memo, which included a copy of the Lubber letter, from
Dennis Merrill of the Department of Environmental Protection dated
January 23, 2001.

APA EFFECTIVE DATE:

April 5, 1999

AMENDED:

June 27, 2007 - filing 2007-261
