06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 1 References to Federal Regulations
     and definitions. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 1. References to Federal Regulations and definitions.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those regulations effective as of July 1,
1998, as they appear in volume 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).
Definitions for terms used in this rule may be found Chapter 520.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 2 Applicability of Chapter 2. (Code
                of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 2. Applicability of Chapter 2.

Unless specified differently in this rule, the requirements of Chapter 2 of the
Department's rules, "Rules Concerning the Processing of Applications",
applies to waste discharge license applications. In the event of
inconsistencies with Chapter 2 of the Department's Rules, waste discharge
license applications will be processed under the procedures set forth in this
Chapter.
      06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 3 Permit application required.
                (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 3. Permit application required.

[see 40 CFR 124.3]

(a)

(1) Any person who requires a permit under the UIC, or NPDES programs
shall complete, sign, and submit to the Department an application for each
permit required under 38 MRSA., Section 413 (UIC and NPDES).
Applications are not required for underground injections authorized by rules
(Chapter 543) or NPDES general permits (Chapter 529).

(2) The Department shall not begin the processing of a permit until the
applicant has fully complied with the application requirements for that
permit. See Chapter 543 (UIC) and this Chapter (NPDES).
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 4. Application for a permit.

[see 40 CFR 122.21]

(a) Duty to apply. Any person who discharges or proposes to discharge
pollutants and who does not have an effective permit, except persons
covered by general permits under Chapter 529, excluded under 38 MRSA,
§413, or a user of a privately owned treatment works unless the Department
requires otherwise under Chapter 523, shall submit a complete application
(which shall include a BMP program if necessary under 40 CFR 125.102) to
the Department in accordance with this section and Chapters 2 and 522.

(b) Who applies? When a facility or activity is owned by one person but is
operated by another person, it is the operator's duty to obtain a permit.

(c) [reserved]

(d) [reserved]

(e) Completeness. The Department shall not issue a permit before receiving
a complete application pursuant to Chapters 2 and 522 for a permit except
for NPDES general permits. An application for a permit is complete when
the Department receives an application form and any supplemental
information which are completed to its satisfaction. The completeness of any
application for a permit shall be judged independently of the status of any
other permit application or permit for the same facility or activity.

(f) Information requirements. All applicants for NPDES permits shall
provide the following information to the Department, using the application
form provided by the Department (additional information required of
applicants is set forth in paragraphs (g) through (k) of this section).

(1) The activities conducted by the applicant which require it to obtain an
NPDES permit.

(2) Name, mailing address, and location of the facility, including the
municipality or in the case of unorganized territory the plantation, for which
the application is submitted.

(3) Up to four SIC codes which best reflect the principal products or services
provided by the facility.

(4) The operator's name, address, telephone number, ownership status, and
status as Federal, State, private, public, or other entity.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(5) Whether the facility is located on Indian lands, as defined in Chapter
520.

(6) A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for
under any of the following programs:

(i) Hazardous Waste Management program under RCRA.

(ii) UIC program under SDWA.

(iii) NPDES program under CWA.

(iv) Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean
Air Act.

(v) Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act.

(vi) National Emission Standards for Hazardous Pollutants (NESHAPS)
preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act.

(vii)Ocean dumping permits under the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuaries Act.

(viii)Dredge or fill permits under section 404 of CWA.

(ix) Other relevant environmental permits, including State permits.

(7) A topographic map (or other map if a topographic map is unavailable)
extending one mile beyond the property boundaries of the source, depicting
the facility and each of its intake and discharge structures (showing latitude
and longitude to the nearest 15 seconds), each of its hazardous waste
treatment, storage, or disposal facilities; each well where fluids from the
facility are injected underground; and those wells, springs, other surface
water bodies, and drinking water wells listed in public records or otherwise
known to the applicant in the map area.

(8) A brief description of the nature of the business.

(g) Application requirements for existing manufacturing, commercial,
mining, and silvicultural dischargers. Existing manufacturing, commercial
mining, and silvicultural dischargers applying for NPDES permits, except
for those facilities subject to the requirements of paragraph (h), shall
provide the following information to the Department, using application
forms provided by the Department.

(1) Outfall location. The latitude and longitude to the nearest 15 seconds and
the name of the receiving water.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) Line drawing. A line drawing of the water flow through the facility with a
water balance, showing operations contributing wastewater to the effluent
and treatment units. Similar processes, operations, or production areas may
be indicated as a single unit, labeled to correspond to the more detailed
identification under paragraph (g)(3) of this section. The water balance must
show approximate average flows at intake and discharge points and between
units, including treatment units. If a water balance cannot be determined
(for example, for certain mining activities), the applicant may provide
instead a pictorial description of the nature and amount of any sources of
water and any collection and treatment measures.

(3) Average flows and treatment. A narrative identification of each type of
process, operation, or production area which contributes wastewater to the
effluent for each outfall, including process wastewater, cooling water, and
storm water runoff; the average flow which each process contributes; and a
description of the treatment the wastewater receives, including the ultimate
disposal of any solid or fluid wastes other than by discharge. Processes,
operations, or production areas may be described in general terms (for
example, ``dye-making reactor'', ``distillation tower''). For a privately
owned treatment works, this information shall include the identity of each
user of the treatment works. The average flow of point sources composed of
storm water may be estimated. The basis for the rainfall event and the
method of estimation must be indicated.

(4) Intermittent flows. If any of the discharges described in paragraph (g)(3)
of this section are intermittent or seasonal, a description of the frequency,
duration and flow rate of each discharge occurrence (except for storm water
runoff, spillage or leaks).

(5) Maximum production. If an effluent guideline promulgated under
section 304 of CWA applies to the applicant and is expressed in terms of
production (or other measure of operation), a reasonable measure of the
applicant's actual production reported in the units used in the applicable
effluent guideline. The reported measure must reflect the actual production
of the facility as required by Chapter 523.

(6) Improvements. If the applicant is subject to any present requirements or
compliance schedules for construction, upgrading or operation of waste
treatment equipment, an identification of the abatement requirement, a
description of the abatement project, and a listing of the required and
projected final compliance dates.

(7) Effluent characteristics. Information on the discharge of pollutants
specified in this paragraph (except information on storm water discharges
which is to be provided as specified in Section 9).When ``quantitative data''
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


for a pollutant are required, the applicant must collect a sample of effluent
and analyze it for the pollutant in accordance with analytical methods
approved under 40 CFR part 136. When no analytical method is approved
the applicant may use any suitable method but must provide a description of
the method. When an applicant has two or more outfalls with substantially
identical effluents, the Department may allow the applicant to test only one
outfall and report that the quantitative data also apply to the substantially
identical outfalls. The requirements in paragraphs (g)(7) (iii) and (iv) of this
section that an applicant must provide quantitative data for certain
pollutants known or believed to be present do not apply to pollutants
present in a discharge solely as the result of their presence in intake water;
however, an applicant must report such pollutants as present. Grab samples
must be used for pH, temperature, cyanide, total phenols, residual chlorine,
oil and grease, fecal coliform and fecal streptococcus. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples must be used. However, a minimum
of one grab sample may be taken for effluents from holding ponds or other
impoundments with a retention period greater than 24 hours. In addition,
for discharges other than storm water discharges, the Department may
waive composite sampling for any outfall for which the applicant
demonstrates that the use of an automatic sampler is infeasible and that the
minimum of four (4) grab samples will be a representative sample of the
effluent being discharged. For storm water discharges, all samples shall be
collected from the discharge resulting from a storm event that is greater
than 0.1 inch and at least 72 hours from the previously measurable (greater
than 0.1 inch rainfall) storm event. Where feasible, the variance in the
duration of the event and the total rainfall of the event should not exceed 50
percent from the average or median rainfall event in that area. For all
applicants, a flow-weighted composite shall be taken for either the entire
discharge or for the first three hours of the discharge. The flow-weighted
composite sample for a storm water discharge may be taken with a
continuous sampler or as a combination of a minimum of three sample
aliquots taken in each hour of discharge for the entire discharge or for the
first three hours of the discharge, with each aliquot being separated by a
minimum period of fifteen minutes(applicants submitting permit
applications for storm water discharges under Section 9(d) may collect flow
weighted composite samples using different protocols with respect to the
time duration between the collection of sample aliquots, subject to the
approval of the Department). However, a minimum of one grab sample may
be taken for storm water discharges from holding ponds or other
impoundments with a retention period greater than 24 hours. For a flow-
weighted composite sample, only one analysis of the composite of aliquots is
required. For storm water discharge samples taken from discharges
associated with industrial activities, quantitative data must be reported for
the grab sample taken during the first thirty minutes (or as soon thereafter
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


as practicable) of the discharge for all pollutants specified in Section 9 (c)(1).
For all storm water permit applicants taking flow-weighted composites,
quantitative data must be reported for all pollutants specified in Section 9
except pH, temperature, cyanide, total phenols, residual chlorine, oil and
grease, fecal coliform, and fecal streptococcus. the Department may allow or
establish appropriate site-specific sampling procedures or requirements,
including sampling locations, the season in which the sampling takes place,
the minimum duration between the previous measurable storm event and
the storm event sampled, the minimum or maximum level of precipitation
required for an appropriate storm event, the form of precipitation sampled
(snow melt or rain fall), protocols for collecting samples under 40 CFR part
136, and additional time for submitting data on a case-by-case basis. An
applicant is expected to ``know or have reason to believe'' that a pollutant is
present in an effluent based on an evaluation of the expected use,
production, or storage of the pollutant, or on any previous analyses for the
pollutant. (For example, any pesticide manufactured by a facility may be
expected to be present in contaminated storm water runoff from the
facility.)

(i) (A) Every applicant must report quantitative data for every outfall for the
following pollutants:

Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD-5)

Chemical Oxygen Demand

Total Organic Carbon

Total Suspended Solids

Ammonia (as N)

Temperature (both winter and summer)

pH

(B) The Department may waive the reporting requirements for individual
point sources or for a particular industry category for one or more of the
pollutants listed in paragraph (g)(7)(i)(A) of this section if the applicant has
demonstrated that such a waiver is appropriate because information
adequate to support issuance of a permit can be obtained with less stringent
requirements.

(ii) Each applicant with processes in one or more primary industry category
(see appendix A) contributing to a discharge must report quantitative data
for the following pollutants in each outfall containing process wastewater:
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(A) The organic toxic pollutants in the fractions designated in table I of
appendix D for the applicant's industrial category or categories unless the
applicant qualifies as a small business under paragraph (g)(8) of this
section. Table II of appendix D lists the organic toxic pollutants in each
fraction. The fractions result from the sample preparation required by the
analytical procedure which uses gas chromotography/mass spectrometry. A
determination that an applicant falls within a particular industrial category
for the purposes of selecting fractions for testing is not conclusive as to the
applicant's inclusion in that category for any other purposes. [See Notes 2, 3,
and 4 of this section.]

(B) The pollutants listed in table III of appendix D (the toxic metals,
cyanide, and total phenols).

(iii)

(A) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe
that any of the pollutants in table IV of appendix D (certain conventional
and nonconventional pollutants) is discharged from each outfall. If an
applicable effluent limitations guideline either directly limits the pollutant
or, by its express terms, indirectly limits the pollutant through limitations on
an indicator, the applicant must report quantitative data. For every pollutant
discharged which is not so limited in an effluent limitations guideline, the
applicant must either report quantitative data or briefly describe the reasons
the pollutant is expected to be discharged.

(B) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe
that any of the pollutants listed in table II or table III of appendix D (the
toxic pollutants and total phenols) for which quantitative data are not
otherwise required under paragraph (g)(7)(ii) of this section, is discharged
from each outfall. For every pollutant expected to be discharged in
concentrations of 10 ppb or greater the applicant must report quantitative
data. For acrolein, acrylonitrile, 2,4 dinitrophenol, and 2-methyl-4,6
dinitrophenol, where any of these four pollutants are expected to be
discharged in concentrations of 100 ppb or greater the applicant must report
quantitative data. For every pollutant expected to be discharged in
concentrations less than 10 ppb, or in the case of acrolein, acrylonitrile, 2,4
dinitrophenol, and 2-methyl-4,6 dinitrophenol, in concentrations less than
100 ppb, the applicant must either submit quantitative data or briefly
describe the reasons the pollutant is expected to be discharged. An applicant
qualifying as a small business under paragraph (g)(8) of this section is not
required to analyze for pollutants listed in table II of appendix D (the
organic toxic pollutants).
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(iv) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe
that any of the pollutants in table V of appendix D (certain hazardous
substances and asbestos) are discharged from each outfall. For every
pollutant expected to be discharged, the applicant must briefly describe the
reasons the pollutant is expected to be discharged, and report any
quantitative data it has for any pollutant.

(v) Each applicant must report qualitative data, generated using a screening
procedure not calibrated with analytical standards, for 2,3,7,8-
tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-furan
(TCDF) if it:

(A) Uses or manufactures 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4,5,-T); 2-
(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propanoic acid (Silvex, 2,4,5,-TP); 2-(2,4,5-
trichlorophenoxy) ethyl, 2,2-dichloropropionate (Erbon); O,O-dimethyl O-
(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl) phosphorothioate (Ronnel); 2,4,5-trichlorophenol
(TCP); or hexachlorophene (HCP); or

(B) Knows or has reason to believe that TCDD or TCDF is or may be present
in an effluent.

(8) Small business exemption. An applicant which qualifies as a small
business under one of the following criteria is exempt from the requirements
in paragraph (g)(7)(ii)(A) or (g)(7)(iii)(A) of this section to submit
quantitative data for the pollutants listed in table II of appendix D (the
organic toxic pollutants):

(i) For coal mines, a probable total annual production of less than 100,000
tons per year.

(ii) For all other applicants, gross total annual sales averaging less than
$100,000 per year (in second quarter 1980 dollars).

(9) Used or manufactured toxics. A listing of any toxic pollutant which the
applicant currently uses or manufactures as an intermediate or final product
or byproduct. The Department may waive or modify this requirement for
any applicant if the applicant demonstrates that it would be unduly
burdensome to identify each toxic pollutant and the Department has
adequate information to issue the permit.

(10) [Reserved]

(11) Biological toxicity tests. An identification of any biological toxicity tests
which the applicant knows or has reason to believe have been made within
the last 3 years on any of the applicant's discharges or on a receiving water
in relation to a discharge.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(12) Contract analyses. If a contract laboratory or consulting firm performed
any of the analyses required by paragraph (g)(7) of this section, the identity
of each laboratory or firm and the analyses performed.

(13) Additional information. In addition to the information reported on the
application form, applicants shall provide to the Department, a his or her
request, such other information as the Department may reasonably require
to assess the discharges of the facility and to determine whether to issue an
NPDES permit. The additional information may include additional
quantitative data and bioassays to assess the relative toxicity of discharges to
aquatic life and requirements to determine the cause of the toxicity.

(h) Application requirements for manufacturing, commercial, mining and
silvicultural facilities which discharge only non-process wastewater. Except
for stormwater discharges, all manufacturing, commercial, mining and
silvicultural dischargers applying for NPDES permits which discharge only
non-process wastewater not regulated by an effluent limitations guideline or
new source performance standard shall provide the following information to
the Department, using application forms provided by the Department:

(1) Outfall location. Outfall number, latitude and longitude to the nearest 15
seconds, and the name of the receiving water.

(2) Discharge date (for new dischargers). Date of expected commencement
of discharge.

(3) Type of waste. An identification of the general type of waste discharged,
or expected to be discharged upon commencement of operations, including
sanitary wastes, restaurant or cafeteria wastes, or non contact cooling water.
An identification of cooling water additives (if any) that are used or expected
to be used upon commencement of operations, along with their composition
if existing composition is available.

(4) Effluent characteristics. (i) Quantitative data for the pollutants or
parameters listed below, unless testing is waived by the Department. The
quantitative data may be data collected over the past 365 days, if they
remain representative of current operations, and must include maximum
daily value, average daily value, and number of measurements taken. The
applicant must collect and analyze samples in accordance with 40 CFR part
136. Grab samples must be used for pH, temperature, oil and grease, total
residual chlorine, and fecal coliform. For all other pollutants, 24-hour
composite samples must be used. New dischargers must include estimates
for the pollutants or parameters listed below instead of actual sampling
data, along with the source of each estimate. All levels must be reported or
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


estimated as concentration and as total mass, except for flow, pH, and
temperature.

(A) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD-5).

(B) Total Suspended Solids (TSS).

(C) Fecal Coliform (if believed present or if sanitary waste is or will be
discharged).

(D) Total Residual Chlorine (if chlorine is used).

(E Oil and Grease.

(F) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) (if non-contact cooling water is or will
be discharged).

(G) Total Organic Carbon (TOC) (if non-contact cooling water is or will be
discharged).

(H) Ammonia (as N).

(I) Discharge Flow.

(J) pH.

(K) Temperature (Winter and Summer).

(ii) The Department may waive the testing and reporting requirements for
any of the pollutants or flow listed in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section if the
applicant submits a request for such a waiver before or with his application
which demonstrates that information adequate to support issuance of a
permit can be obtained through less stringent requirements.

(iii) If the applicant is a new discharger, he must complete and submit Item
IV of Form 2e or approved equivalent (see paragraph (h)(4)) by providing
quantitative data in accordance with that section no later than two years
after commencement of discharge. However, the applicant need not
complete those portions of Item IV requiring tests which he has already
performed and reported under the discharge monitoring requirements of
this NPDES permit.

(iv) The requirements of parts i and iii of this section that an applicant must
provide quantitative data or estimates of certain pollutants do not apply to
pollutants present in a discharge solely as a result of their presence in intake
water. However, an applicant must report such pollutants as present. Net
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


credit may be provided for the presence of pollutants in intake water if the
requirements of Chapter 523 are met.

(5) Flow. A description of the frequency of flow and duration of any seasonal
or intermittent discharge (except for stormwater runoff, leaks, or spills).

(6) Treatment system. A brief description of any system used or to be used.

(7) Optional information. Any additional information the applicant wishes
to be considered, such as influent data for the purpose of obtaining ``net''
credits pursuant to Chapter 523.

(8) Certification. Signature of certifying official under Section 5.

(i) Application requirements for new and existing concentrated animal
feeding operations and aquatic animal production facilities. New and
existing concentrated animal feeding operations (defined in Section 6) and
concentrated aquatic animal production facilities (defined in Section 7) shall
provide the following information to the Department, using the application
form provided by the Department:

(1) For concentrated animal feeding operations:

(i) The type and number of animals in open confinement and housed under
roof.

(ii) The number of acres used for confinement feeding.

(iii) The design basis for the runoff diversion and control system, if one
exists, including the number of acres of contributing drainage, the storage
capacity, and the design safety factor.

(2) For concentrated aquatic animal production facilities:

(i) The maximum daily and average monthly flow from each outfall.

(ii) The number of ponds, raceways, and similar structures.

(iii) The name of the receiving water and the source of intake water.

(iv) For each species of aquatic animals, the total yearly and maximum
harvestable weight.

(v) The calendar month of maximum feeding and the total mass of food fed
during that month.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(j) Application requirements for new and existing POTWs, in addition to the
requirements of Chapter 530.5.

(1) The following POTWs shall provide the results of valid whole effluent
biological toxicity testing to the Department:

(i) All POTWs with design influent flows equal to or greater than one million
gallons per day;

(ii) All POTWs with approved pretreatment programs or POTWs required to
develop a pretreatment program;

(2) In addition to the POTWs listed in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the
Department may require other POTWs to submit the results of toxicity tests
with their permit applications, based on consideration of the following
factors:

(i) The variability of the pollutants or pollutant parameters in the POTW
effluent (based on chemical-specific information, the type of treatment
facility, and types of industrial contributors);

(ii) The dilution of the effluent in the receiving water (ratio of effluent flow
to receiving stream flow);

(iii) Existing controls on point or nonpoint sources, including total
maximum daily load calculations for the waterbody segment and the relative
contribution of the POTW;

(iv) Receiving stream characteristics, including possible or known water
quality impairment, and whether the POTW discharges to a coastal water, or
a water designated as an outstanding natural resource; or

(v) Other considerations (including but not limited to the history of toxic
impact and compliance problems at the POTW), which the Department
determines could cause or contribute to adverse water quality impacts.

(3) For POTWs required under paragraph (j)(1) or (j)(2) of this section to
conduct toxicity testing, POTWs shall use EPA's methods or other
established protocols which are scientifically defensible and sufficiently
sensitive to detect aquatic toxicity. Such testing must have been conducted
since the last NPDES permit reissuance or permit modification under 38
MRSA § 414-A(5), whichever occurred later.

(4) All POTWs with approved pretreatment programs shall provide the
following information to the Department: a written technical evaluation of
the need to revise local limits under Chapter 528.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(k) Application requirements for new sources and new discharges. New
manufacturing, commercial, mining and silvicultural dischargers applying
for NPDES permits (except for new discharges of facilities subject to the
requirements of paragraph (h) of this section or new discharges of storm
water associated with industrial activity which are subject to the
requirements of Section 9 (c)(1) and this section (except as provided by
Section 9(c)(1)(ii)) shall provide the following information to the
Department, using the application forms provided by the Department:

(1) Expected outfall location. The latitude and longitude to the nearest 15
seconds and the name of the receiving water.

(2) Discharge dates. The expected date of commencement of discharge.

(3) Flows, sources of pollution, and treatment technologies—

(i) Expected treatment of wastewater. Description of the treatment that the
wastewater will receive, along with all operations contributing wastewater to
the effluent, average flow contributed by each operation, and the ultimate
disposal of any solid or liquid wastes not discharged.

(ii) Line drawing. A line drawing of the water flow through the facility with a
water balance as described in paragraph (g)(2).

(iii) Intermittent flows. If any of the expected discharges will be intermittent
or seasonal, a description of the frequency, duration and maximum daily
flow rate of each discharge occurrence (except for stormwater runoff,
spillage, or leaks).

(4) Production. If a new source performance standard promulgated under
section 306 of CWA or an effluent limitation guideline applies to the
applicant and is expressed in terms of production (or other measure of
operation), a reasonable measure of the applicant's expected actual
production reported in the units used in the applicable effluent guideline or
new source performance standard as required by Chapter 522 for each of the
first three years. Alternative estimates may also be submitted if production
is likely to vary.

(5) Effluent characteristics. The requirements in paragraphs(h)(4)(i), (ii),
and (iii) of this section that an applicant must provide estimates of certain
pollutants expected to be present do not apply to pollutants present in a
discharge solely as a result of their presence in intake water; however, an
applicant must report such pollutants as present. Net credits may be
provided for the presence of pollutants in intake water if the requirements of
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Chapter 522 are met. All levels (except for discharge flow, temperature, and
pH) must be estimated as concentration and as total mass.

(i) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average, and
source of information for each outfall for the following pollutants or
parameters. The Department may waive the reporting requirements for any
of these pollutants and parameters if the applicant submits a request for
such a waiver before or with his application which demonstrates that
information adequate to support issuance of the permit can be obtained
through less stringent reporting requirements.

(A) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD).

(B) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD).

(C) Total Organic Carbon (TOC).

(D) Total Suspended Solids (TSS).

(E) Flow.

(F) Ammonia (as N).

(G) Temperature (winter and summer).

(H) pH.

(ii) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average, and
source of information for each outfall for the following pollutants, if the
applicant knows or has reason to believe they will be present or if they are
limited by an effluent limitation guideline or new source performance
standard either directly or indirectly through limitations on an indicator
pollutant: all pollutants in table IV of appendix D (certain conventional and
nonconventional pollutants).

(iii) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average
and source of information for the following pollutants if he knows or has
reason to believe that they will be present in the discharges from any outfall:

(A) The pollutants listed in table III of appendix D (the toxic metals, in the
discharge from any outfall: Total cyanide, and total phenols);

(B) The organic toxic pollutants in table II of appendix D (except bis
(chloromethyl) ether, dichlorofluoromethane and trichlorofluoromethane).
This requirement is waived for applicants with expected gross sales of less
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


than $100,000 per year for the next three years, and for coal mines with
expected average production of less than 100,000 tons of coal per year.

(iv) The applicant is required to report that 2,3,7,8 Tetrachlorodibenzo-P-
Dioxin (TCDD) or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-furan (TCDF) may be
discharged if he uses or manufactures one of the following compounds, or if
he knows or has reason to believe that TCDD or TCDF will or may be present
in an effluent:

(A) 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4,5-T) (CAS _93-76-5);

(B) 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propanoic acid (Silvex, 2,4,5-TP)(CAS _93-
72-1);

(C) 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) ethyl 2,2-dichloropropionate (Erbon)(CAS
_136-25-4);

(D) 0,0-dimethyl 0-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl) phosphorothioate (Ronnel)(CAS
_299-84-3);

(E) 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (TCP) (CAS _95-95-4); or

(F) Hexachlorophene (HCP) (CAS _70-30-4);

(v) Each applicant must report any pollutants listed in table V of appendix D
(certain hazardous substances) if he believes they will be present in any
outfall (no quantitative estimates are required unless they are already
available).

(vi) No later than two years after the commencement of discharge from the
proposed facility, the applicant is required to complete and submit Items V
and VI of NPDES application Form 2c or approved equivalent (see
paragraph (g)). However, the applicant need not complete those portions of
Item V requiring tests which he has already performed and reported under
the discharge monitoring requirements of his NPDES permit.

(6) Engineering Report. Each applicant must report the existence of any
technical evaluation concerning his wastewater treatment, along with the
name and location of similar plants of which he has knowledge.

(7) Other information. Any optional information the permittee wishes to
have considered.

(8) Certification. Signature of certifying official under Section 5.

(l) [reserved]
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(m) Variance requests by non-POTWs. A discharger which is not publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) may request a variance from otherwise
applicable effluent limitations under any of the following statutory or
regulatory provisions within the times specified in this paragraph:

(1) Fundamentally different factors. (i) A request for a variance based on the
presence of ``fundamentally different factors'' from those on which the
effluent limitations guideline was based shall be filed as follows:

(A) For a request from best practicable control technology currently
available (BPT), by the close of the public comment period under Chapter
522.

(B) For a request from best available technology economically achievable
(BAT) and/or best conventional pollutant control technology (BCT), by no
later than:

(1) July 3, 1989, for a request based on an effluent limitation guideline
promulgated before February 4, 1987, to the extent July 3,1989 is not later
than that provided under previously promulgated regulations; or

(2) 180 days after the date on which an effluent limitation guideline is
published in the Federal Register for a request based on an effluent
limitation guideline promulgated on or after February 4, 1987.

(ii) The request shall explain how the requirements of the applicable
regulatory and/or statutory criteria have been met.

(2) Non-conventional pollutants. A request for a variance from the BAT
requirements for CWA section 301(b)(2)(F) pollutants (commonly called
``non-conventional'' pollutants) pursuant to section 301(c) of CWA because
of the economic capability of the owner or operator, or pursuant to section
301(g) of the CWA (provided however that a Sec. 301(g) variance may only
be requested for ammonia; chlorine; color; iron; total phenols (4AAP) (when
determined by the Administrator to be a pollutant covered by section
301(b)(2)(F)) and any other pollutant which the Administrator lists under
section 301(g)(4) of the CWA) must be made as follows:

(i) For those requests for a variance from an effluent limitation based upon
an effluent limitation guideline by:

(A) Submitting an initial request to the Regional Administrator, as well as to
the Department, stating the name of the discharger, the permit number, the
outfall number(s), the applicable effluent guideline, and whether the
discharger is requesting a section 301(c) or section 301(g) modification or
both. This request must have been filed not later than:
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) September 25, 1978, for a pollutant which is controlled by a BAT effluent
limitation guideline promulgated before December 27, 1977; or

(2) 270 days after promulgation of an applicable effluent limitation
guideline for guidelines promulgated after December 27, 1977; and

(B) Submitting a completed request no later than the close of the public
comment period under Chapter 522 demonstrating that the requirements of
the applicable requirements of Chapter 524 have been met. Notwithstanding
this provision, the complete application for a request under section 301(g)
shall be filed 180 days before EPA must make a decision (unless the
Regional Division Director establishes a shorter or longer period).

(ii) For those requests for a variance from effluent limitations not based on
effluent limitation guidelines, the request need only comply with paragraph
(m)(2)(i)(B) of this section and need not be preceded by an initial request
under paragraph (m)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) Water quality related effluent limitations. A modification under CWA
section 302(b)(2) of requirements under CWA section 302(a) for achieving
water quality related effluent limitations may be requested no later than the
close of the public comment period under Chapter 522 on the permit from
which the modification is sought.

(6) Thermal discharges. A variance under CWA section 316(a) for the
thermal component of any discharge must be filed with a timely application
for a permit under this section, except that if thermal effluent limitations are
established under CWA section 402(a)(1) or are based on water quality
standards the request for a variance may be filed by the close of the public
comment period under Chapter 522. A copy of the request as required under
Chapter 524, shall be sent simultaneously to the appropriate State or
interstate certifying agency as required under 40 CFR part 125.

(n) Variance requests by POTWs. A discharger which is a publicly owned
treatment works (POTW) may request a variance from otherwise applicable
effluent limitations under any of the following statutory provisions as
specified in this paragraph:

(1) Discharges into marine waters. A request for a modification under CWA
section 301(h) of requirements of CWA section 301(b)(1)(B) for discharges
into marine waters must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 40
CFR part 125, subpart G.

(2) [Reserved]
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(3) Water quality based effluent limitation. A modification under CWA
section 302(b)(2) of the requirements under section 302(a) for achieving
water quality based effluent limitations shall be requested no later than the
close of the public comment period under Chapter 522 on the permit from
which the modification is sought.

(o) Expedited variance procedures and time extensions.

(1) Notwithstanding the time requirements in paragraphs (m) and (n) of this
section, the Director may notify a permit applicant before a draft permit is
issued under Chapter 522 that the draft permit will likely contain limitations
which are eligible for variances. In the notice the Director may require the
applicant as a condition of consideration of any potential variance request to
submit a request explaining how the requirements of 40 CFR part 125
applicable to the variance have been met and may require its submission
within a specified reasonable time after receipt of the notice. The notice may
be sent before the permit application has been submitted. The draft or final
permit may contain the alternative limitations which may become effective
upon final grant of the variance.

(2) A discharger who cannot file a timely complete request required under
paragraph (m)(2)(i)(B) or (m)(2)(ii) of this section may request an
extension. The extension may be granted or denied at the discretion of the
Director. Extensions shall be no more than 6 months in duration.

(p) Record keeping. Except for information required by paragraph (d)(3)(ii)
of this section, which shall be retained for a period of at least five years from
the date the application is signed , applicants shall keep records of all data
used to complete permit applications and any supplemental information
submitted under this section for a period of at least 3 years from the date the
application is signed.

Note 1: At 46 FR 2046, Jan. 8, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency
suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the
corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c or
approved equivalent as they apply to coal mines. This revision continues
that suspension. 1

Note 2: At 46 FR 22585, Apr. 20, 1981, the Environmental Protection
Agency suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the
corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c or
approved equivalent as they apply to:

a. Testing and reporting for all four organic fractions in the Greige Mills
Subcategory of the Textile Mills industry (subpart C--Low water use
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


processing of 40 CFR part 410), and testing and reporting for the pesticide
fraction in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

b. Testing and reporting for the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide fractions
in the Base and Precious Metals Subcategory of the Ore Mining and
Dressing industry (subpart B of 40 CFR part 440), and testing and reporting
for all four fractions in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

c. Testing and reporting for all four GC/MS fractions in the Porcelain
Enameling industry.

This revision continues that suspension. 1

Note 3: At 46 FR 35090, July 1, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency
suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the
corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c or
approved equivalent as they apply to:

a. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Tall Oil Rosin
Subcategory (subpart D) and Rosin-Based Derivatives Subcategory (subpart
F) of the Gum and Wood Chemicals industry (40 CFR part 454),and testing
and reporting for the pesticide and base-neutral fractions in all other
subcategories of this industrial category.

b. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Leather Tanning
and Finishing, Paint and Ink Formulation, and Photographic Supplies
industrial categories.

c. Testing and reporting for the acid, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in
the Petroleum Refining industrial category.

d. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Paper grade Sulfite
subcategories (subparts J and U) of the Pulp and Paper industry (40 CFR
part 430); testing and reporting for the base/neutral and pesticide fractions
in the following subcategories: Deink (subpart Q), Dissolving Kraft (subpart
F), and Paperboard from Waste Paper (subpart E); testing and reporting for
the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in the following
subcategories: BCT Bleached Kraft (subpart H), Semi-Chemical (subparts
Band C), and Nonintegrated-Fine Papers (subpart R); and testing and
reporting for the acid, base/neutral, and pesticide fractions in the following
subcategories: Fine Bleached Kraft (subpart I), Dissolving Sulfite Pulp
(subpart K), Groundwood-Fine Papers (subpart O), Market Bleached Kraft
(subpart G), Tissue from Wastepaper (subpart T), and Nonintegrated-Tissue
Papers (subpart S).
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 4 Application for a permit. (Code of
                 Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


e. Testing and reporting for the base/neutral fraction in the Once-Through
Cooling Water, Fly Ash and Bottom Ash Transport Water process
wastestreams of the Steam Electric Power Plant industrial category.

This revision continues that suspension. 1

1 Editorial Note: The words ``This revision'' refer to the document
published at 48 FR 14153, Apr. 1, 1983.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 5 Signatories to permit applications
       and reports. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 5. Signatories to permit applications and reports.

[see 40 CFR 122.22]

(a) Applications. All permit applications shall be signed as follows:

(1) For a corporation. By a responsible corporate officer. For the purpose of
this section, a responsible corporate officer means:

(i) A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation, or

(ii) the manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or
expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager
in accordance with corporate procedures.

Note: EPA does not require specific assignments or delegations of authority
to responsible corporate officers identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i). The
Agency will presume that these responsible corporate officers have the
requisite authority to sign permit applications unless the corporation has
notified the Director to the contrary. Corporate procedures governing
authority to sign permit applications may provide for assignment or
delegation to applicable corporate positions under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)
rather than to specific individuals.

(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship. By a general partner or the
proprietor, respectively; or

(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency. By either a
principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For purposes of this
section, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes: (i) The
chief executive officer of the agency, or (ii) a senior executive officer having
responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the
agency (e.g., Regional Administrators of EPA).

(b) All reports required by permits, and other information requested by the
Department shall be signed by a person described in paragraph (a) of this
section, or by a duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a
duly authorized representative only if:

(1) The authorization is made in writing by a person described in paragraph
(a) of this section;
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 5 Signatories to permit applications
       and reports. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) The authorization specifies either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity
such as the position of plant manager, operator of a well or a well field,
superintendent, position of equivalent responsibility, or an individual or
position having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, (A duly authorized representative may thus be either a named
individual or any individual occupying a named position.) and,

(3) The written authorization is submitted to the Department.

(c) Changes to authorization. If an authorization under paragraph (b) of this
section is no longer accurate because a different individually or position has
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization
satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section must be
submitted to the Department prior to or together with any reports,
information, or applications to be signed by an authorized representative.

(d) Certification. Any person signing a document under paragraph (a) or (b)
of this section shall make the following certification:

I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who
manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 6 Concentrated animal feeding
   operations. [see 40 Cfr 122.23] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                            Edition))

Section 6. Concentrated animal feeding operations. [see 40 CFR
122.23]

(a) Permit requirement. Concentrated animal feeding operations are point
sources subject to the NPDES permit program. The Department will consult
with the Department of Agriculture on all applications for concentrated
animal feeding operations in order consolidate permitting requirements
where feasible.

(b) Definitions.

(1) Animal feeding operation means a lot or facility (other than an aquatic
animal production facility) where the following conditions are met:

(i) Animals (other than aquatic animals) have been, are, or will be stabled or
confined and fed or maintained for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-
month period, and

(ii) Crops, vegetation forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or
facility.

(2) Two or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are
considered, for the purposes of these regulations, to be a single animal
feeding operation if they adjoin each other or if they use a common area or
system for the disposal of wastes.

(3) Concentrated animal feeding operation means an ``animal feeding
operation'' which meets the criteria in appendix B, or which the Department
designates under paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Case-by-case designation of concentrated animal feeding operations.

(1) The Department may designate any animal feeding operation as a
concentrated animal feeding operation upon determining that it is a
significant contributor of pollution to the waters of the State. In making this
designation the Department shall consider the following factors:

(i) The size of the animal feeding operation and the amount of wastes
reaching waters of the State;

(ii) The location of the animal feeding operation relative to waters of the
State;

(iii) The means of conveyance of animal wastes and process wastewaters
into waters of the State;
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 6 Concentrated animal feeding
   operations. [see 40 Cfr 122.23] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                            Edition))

(iv) The slope, vegetation, rainfall, and other factors affecting the likelihood
or frequency of discharge of animal wastes and process waste waters into
waters of the State; and

(v) Other relevant factors.

(2) No animal feeding operation with less than the numbers of animals set
forth in appendix B shall be designated as a concentrated animal feeding
operation unless:

(i) Pollutants are discharged into waters of the State through a manmade
ditch, flushing system, or other similar manmade device; or

(ii) Pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the State which
originate outside of the facility and pass over, across, or through the facility
or otherwise come into direct contact with the animals confined in the
operation.

(3) A permit application shall not be required from a concentrated animal
feeding operation designated under this paragraph until the Department has
conducted an on-site inspection of the operation and determined that the
operation should and could be regulated under the permit program.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 7 Concentrated aquatic animal
  production facilities. [see 40 Cfr 122.24] (Code of Maine Rules
                           (2021 Edition))

Section 7. Concentrated aquatic animal production facilities. [see
40 CFR 122.24]

(a) Permit requirement. Concentrated aquatic animal production facilities,
as defined in this section, are point sources subject to the NPDES permit
program.

(b) Definition. Concentrated aquatic animal production facility means a
hatchery, fish farm, or other facility which meets the criteria in appendix C,
or which the Department designates under paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Case-by-case designation of concentrated aquatic animal production
facilities.

(1) The Department may designate any warm or cold water aquatic animal
production facility as a concentrated aquatic animal production facility upon
determining that it is a significant contributor of pollution to waters of the
State. In making this designation the Department shall consider the
following factors:

(i) The location and quality of the receiving waters of the State;

(ii) The holding, feeding, and production capacities of the facility;

(iii) The quantity and nature of the pollutants reaching waters of the State;
and

(iv) Other relevant factors.

(2) A permit application shall not be required from a concentrated aquatic
animal production facility designated under this paragraph until the
Department has conducted on-site inspection of the facility and has
determined that the facility should and could be regulated under the permit
program.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 8 Aqua culture projects. [see 40 Cfr
        122.25] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 8. Aqua culture projects. [see 40 CFR 122.25]

(a) Permit requirement. Discharges into aqua culture projects, as defined in
this section, are subject to the NPDES permit program through section 318
of CWA, and in accordance with Chapter 524.

(b) Definitions.

(1) Aqua culture project means a defined managed water area which uses
discharges of pollutants into that designated area for the maintenance or
production of harvestable freshwater, estuarine, or marine plants or
animals.

(2) Designated project area means the portions of the waters of the State
within which the permittee or permit applicant plans to confine the
cultivated species, using a method or plan or operation(including, but not
limited to, physical confinement) which, on the basis of reliable scientific
evidence, is expected to ensure that specific individual organisms
comprising an aqua culture crop will enjoy increased growth attributable to
the discharge of pollutants, and be harvested within a defined geographic
area.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 9. Storm water discharges. [see 40 CFR 122.26]

(a) Permit requirement.

(1) Prior to October 1, 1994, discharges composed entirely of storm water
shall not be required to obtain a NPDES permit except:

(i) A discharge with respect to which a permit has been issued prior to
February 4, 1987;

(ii) A discharge associated with industrial activity (see paragraph (a)(4));

(iii) A discharge from a large municipal separate storm sewer system;

(iv) A discharge from a medium municipal separate storm sewer system;

(v) A discharge which the Director, or the EPA Regional Administrator,
determines to contribute to a violation of a water quality standard or is a
significant contributor of pollutants to waters of the State. This designation
may include a discharge from any conveyance or system of conveyances
used for collecting and conveying storm water runoff or a system of
discharges from municipal separate storm sewers, except for those
discharges from conveyances which do not require a permit under
paragraph (a)(2) of this section or agricultural stormwater runoff which is
exempted from the definition of point source at Chapter 520.

The Director may designate discharges from municipal separate storm
sewers on a system-wide or jurisdiction-wide basis. In making this
determination the Director may consider the following factors:

(A) The location of the discharge with respect to waters of the State as
defined at Chapter 520.

(B) The size of the discharge;

(C) The quantity and nature of the pollutants discharged to waters of the
State; and

(D) Other relevant factors.

(2) The Director may not require a NPDES permit for discharges of
stormwater runoff from mining operations or oil and gas exploration,
production, processing or treatment operations or transmission facilities,
composed entirely of flows which are from conveyances or systems of
conveyances (including but not limited to pipes, conduits, ditches, and
channels) used for collecting and conveying precipitation runoff and which
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


are not contaminated by contact with or that has not come into contact with,
any overburden, raw material, intermediate products, finished product,
byproduct or waste products located on the site of such operations.

NOTE: Mining activities may be required to meet stormwater management
standards pursuant to the Site Location of Development law, 38 M.R.S.A. §§
481 et. seq.; Performance Standards for Excavations for Borrow, Clay,
Topsoil or Silt, 38 M.R.S.A. §§ 490-A et. seq.; or Performance Standards for
Quarries, 38 M.R.S.A. §§ 480-W et. seq..

(3) Large and medium municipal separate storm sewer systems.

(i) Permits must be obtained for all discharges from large and medium
municipal separate storm sewer systems.

(ii) The Director may either issue one system-wide permit covering all
discharges from municipal separate storm sewers within a large or medium
municipal storm sewer system or issue distinct permits for appropriate
categories of discharges within a large or medium municipal separate storm
sewer system including, but not limited to: all discharges owned or operated
by the same municipality; located within the same jurisdiction; all
discharges within a system that discharge to the same watershed; discharges
within a system that are similar in nature; or for individual discharges from
municipal separate storm sewers within the system.

(iii) The operator of a discharge from a municipal separate storm sewer
which is part of a large or medium municipal separate storm sewer system
must either:

(A) Participate in a permit application (to be a permittee or a co-permittee)
with one or more other operators of discharges from the larger or medium
municipal storm sewer system which covers all, or a portion of all,
discharges from the municipal separate storm sewer system;

(B) Submit a distinct permit application which only covers discharges from
the municipal separate storm sewers for which the operator is responsible;
or

(C) A regional authority may be responsible for submitting a permit
application under the following guidelines:

(1) The regional authority together with co-applicants shall have authority
over a storm water management program that is in existence, or shall be in
existence at the time part 1 of the application is due;
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) The permit applicant or co-applicants shall establish their ability to make
a timely submission of part 1 and part 2 of the municipal application;

(3) Each of the operators of municipal separate storm sewers within the
systems described in paragraphs (b)(4) (i), (ii), and (iii) or (b)(7) (i), (ii), and
(iii) of this section, that are under the purview of the designated regional
authority, shall comply with the application requirements of paragraph (d)
of this section.

(iv) One permit application may be submitted for all or a portion of all
municipal separate storm sewers within adjacent or interconnected large or
medium municipal separate storm sewer systems. The Director may issue
one system-wide permit covering all, or a portion of all municipal separate
storm sewers in adjacent or interconnected large or medium municipal
separate storm sewer systems.

(v) Permits for all or a portion of all discharges from large or medium
municipal separate storm sewer systems that are issued on a system-wide,
jurisdiction-wide, watershed or other basis may specify different conditions
relating to different discharges covered by the permit, including different
management programs for different drainage areas which contribute storm
water to the system.

(vi) Co-permittees need only comply with permit conditions relating to
discharges from the municipal separate storm sewers for which they are
operators.

(4) Discharges through large and medium municipal separate storm sewer
systems. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this
section, an operator of a storm water discharge associated with industrial
activity which discharges through a large or medium municipal separate
storm sewer system shall submit, to the operator of the municipal separate
storm sewer system receiving the discharge no later than May 15, 1991, or
180 days prior to commencing such discharge: the name of the facility; a
contact person and phone number; the location of the discharge; a
description, including Standard Industrial Classification, which best reflects
the principal products or services provided by each facility; and any existing
NPDES permit number.

(5) Other municipal separate storm sewers. The Director may issue permits
for municipal separate storm sewers that are designated under paragraph
(a)(1)(v) of this section on a system-wide basis, jurisdiction-wide basis,
watershed basis or other appropriate basis, or may issue permits for
individual discharges.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(6) Non-municipal separate storm sewers. For storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity from point sources which discharge
through a non-municipal or non-publicly owned separate storm sewer
system, the Director, in his discretion, may issue: a single NPDES permit,
with each discharger a co-permittee to a permit issued to the operator of the
portion of the system that discharges into waters of the State; or, individual
permits to each discharger of storm water associated with industrial activity
through the non-municipal conveyance system.

(i) All storm water discharges associated with industrial activity that
discharge through a storm water discharge system that is not a municipal
separate storm sewer must be covered by an individual permit, or a permit
issued to the operator of the portion of the system that discharges to waters
of the State, with each discharger to the non-municipal conveyance a co-
permittee to that permit.

(ii) Where there is more than one operator of a single system of such
conveyances, all operators of storm water discharges associated with
industrial activity must submit applications.

(iii) Any permit covering more than one operator shall identify the effluent
limitations, or other permit conditions, if any, that apply to each operator.

(7) Combined sewer systems. Conveyances that discharge storm water
runoff combined with municipal sewage are point sources that must obtain
NPDES permits in accordance with the procedures of Section 4 and are not
subject to the provisions of this section.

(8) Whether a discharge from a municipal separate storm sewer is or is not
subject to regulation under this section shall have no bearing on whether the
owner or operator of the discharge is eligible for funding under title II, title
III or title VI of the Clean Water Act. See 40 CFR part 35, subpart I,
appendix A(b)H.2.j.

On and after October 1, 1994, dischargers composed entirely of storm water,
that are not otherwise already required by paragraph (a)(1)of this section to
obtain a permit, shall be required to apply for and obtain a permit according
to the application requirements in paragraph(g) of this section. The Director
may not require a permit for discharges of storm water as provided in
paragraph (a)(2) of this section or agricultural storm water runoff which is
exempted from the definition of point source at Chapter 520 and 38 MRSA,
§413.

If a discharger composed entirely of storm water is required to obtain a
Stormwater Management Permit pursuant to 38 MRSA 420-D, or is
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


otherwise required to meet Maine's storm water standards adopted
pursuant to 38 MRSA 420-D through application of the Site Location of
Development Law, Performance Standards for Excavations for Borrow, Clay,
Topsoil or Silt, or Performance Standards for Quarries, a permit or variance
application addressing storm water, as approved by MDEP, is considered to
meet the construction general permit requirements of the storm water
pollution prevention plan as described in Part IV.D.1, 2a, 2b, 2c(1-5), 3 and 4
of the Construction General Permit, 63 Fed. Reg. 7857,7914 (1998). This
permit or variance using standards adopted pursuant to 38 MRSA 420-D is
not considered to meet the requirements in Part IV.D.2c(6) and (7) that
address threatened or endangered species and/or critical habitat and
historic sites, or Part IV.D.5 (non storm water discharges) of the
Construction General Permit, 63 Fed. Reg. 7857,7914 (1998).

(b) Definitions.

(1) Co-permittee means a permittee to a NPDES permit that is only
responsible for permit conditions relating to the discharge for which it is
operator.

(2) Illicit discharge means any discharge to a municipal separate storm
sewer that is not composed entirely of storm water except discharges
pursuant to a NPDES permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges
from the municipal separate storm sewer) and discharges resulting from fire
fighting activities.

(3) Incorporated place means the District of Columbia, or a city, town,
township, or village that is incorporated under the laws of the State in which
it is located.

(4) Large municipal separate storm sewer system means all municipal
separate storm sewers that are either:

(i) Located in an incorporated place with a population of 250,000 or more
as determined by the latest Decennial Census by the Bureau of Census (40
CFR 122, appendix F); or

(ii) Located in the counties listed in 40 CFR 122, appendix H, except
municipal separate storm sewers that are located in the incorporated places,
townships or towns within such counties; or

(iii) Owned or operated by a municipality other than those described in
paragraph (b)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section and that are designated by the
Director as part of the large or medium municipal separate storm sewer
system due to the interrelationship between the discharges of the designated
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


storm sewer and the discharges from municipal separate storm sewers
described under paragraph (b)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section. In making this
determination the Director may consider the following factors:

(A) Physical interconnections between the municipal separate storm sewers;

(B) The location of discharges from the designated municipal separate storm
sewer relative to discharges from municipal separate storm sewers described
in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section;

(C) The quantity and nature of pollutants discharged to waters of the State;

(D) The nature of the receiving waters; and

(E) Other relevant factors; or

(iv) The Director may, upon petition, designate as a large municipal separate
storm sewer system, municipal separate storm sewers located within the
boundaries of a region defined by a storm water management regional
authority based on a jurisdictional, watershed, or other appropriate basis
that includes one or more of the systems described in paragraph (b)(4) (i),
(ii), (iii) of this section.

(5) Major municipal separate storm sewer outfall (or ``major outfall'')
means a municipal separate storm sewer outfall that discharges from a
single pipe with an inside diameter of 36 inches or more or its equivalent
(discharge from a single conveyance other than circular pipe which is
associated with a drainage area of more than 50 acres); or for municipal
separate storm sewers that receive storm water from lands zoned for
industrial activity (based on comprehensive zoning plans or the equivalent),
an outfall that discharges from a single pipe with an inside diameter of 12
inches or more or from its equivalent(discharge from other than a circular
pipe associated with a drainage area of 2 acres or more).

(6) Major outfall means a major municipal separate storm sewer outfall.

(7) Medium municipal separate storm sewer system means all municipal
separate storm sewers that are either:

(i) Located in an incorporated place with a population of 100,000 or more
but less than 250,000, as determined by the latest Decennial Census by the
Bureau of Census (40 CFR 122,appendix G); or

(ii) Located in the counties listed in 40 CFR 122, appendix I, except
municipal separate storm sewers that are located in the incorporated places,
townships or towns within such counties; or
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(iii) Owned or operated by a municipality other than those described in
paragraph (b)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section and that are designated by the
Director as part of the large or medium municipal separate storm sewer
system due to the interrelationship between the discharges of the designated
storm sewer and the discharges from municipal separate storm sewers
described under paragraph (b)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section. In making this
determination the Director may consider the following factors:

(A) Physical interconnections between the municipal separate storm sewers;

(B) The location of discharges from the designated municipal separate storm
sewer relative to discharges from municipal separate storm sewers described
in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section;

(C) The quantity and nature of pollutants discharged to waters of the State;

(D) The nature of the receiving waters; or

(E) Other relevant factors; or

(iv) The Director may, upon petition, designate as a medium municipal
separate storm sewer system, municipal separate storm sewers located
within the boundaries of a region defined by a storm water management
regional authority based on a jurisdictional, watershed, or other appropriate
basis that includes one or more of the systems described in paragraphs
(b)(7) (i), (ii), (iii) of this section.

(8) Municipal separate storm sewer means a conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets,
catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains):

(i) Owned or operated by a State, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to State
law) having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, storm
water, or other wastes, including special districts under State law such as a
sewer district, flood control district or drainage district, or similar entity, or
an Indian tribe, or a designated and approved management agency under
section 208 of the CWA that discharges to waters of the State;

(ii) Designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water;

(iii) Which is not a combined sewer; and

(iv)Which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as
defined at Chapter 520.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


The definition of "municipal separate storm sewer" in this paragraph is not
intended in any way to define or affect the meaning of the terms
"management system for stormwater" at 38 M.R.S.A. 420-D(2) or "public
stormwater system" or "stormwater system of a municipality or public
utility" at 06-096 CMR 500.3(A)(3).

(9) Outfall means a point source as defined by Chapter 520 at the point
where a municipal separate storm sewer discharges to waters of the State
and does not include open conveyances connecting two municipal separate
storm sewers, or pipes, tunnels or other conveyances which connect
segments of the same stream or other waters of the State and are used to
convey waters of the State.

(10) Overburden means any material of any nature, consolidated or
unconsolidated, that overlies a mineral deposit, excluding topsoil or similar
naturally-occurring surface materials that are not disturbed by mining
operations.

(11) Runoff coefficient means the fraction of total rainfall that will appear at
a conveyance as runoff.

(12) Significant materials includes, but is not limited to: raw materials; fuels;
materials such as solvents, detergents, and plastic pellets; finished materials
such as metallic products; raw materials used in food processing or
production; hazardous substances designated under section 101(14) of
CERCLA; any chemical the facility is required to report pursuant to section
313 of title III of SARA; fertilizers; pesticides; and waste products such as
ashes, slag and sludge that have the potential to be released with storm
water discharges.

(13) Storm water means storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, and surface
runoff and drainage.

(14) Storm water discharge associated with industrial activity means the
discharge from any conveyance which is used for collecting and conveying
storm water and which is directly related to manufacturing, processing or
raw materials storage areas at an industrial plant. The term does not include
discharges from facilities or activities excluded from the NPDES program
under 38 MRSA, §413. For the categories of industries identified in
paragraphs (b)(14) (i) through (x) of this section, the term includes, but is
not limited to, storm water discharges from industrial plant yards;
immediate access roads and rail lines used or traveled by carriers of raw
materials, manufactured products, waste material, or by-products used or
created by the facility; material handling sites; refuse sites; sites used for the
application or disposal of process waste waters (as defined at Chapter 525);
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


sites used for the storage and maintenance of material handling equipment;
sites used for residual treatment, storage, or disposal; shipping and
receiving areas; manufacturing buildings; storage areas (including tank
farms) for raw materials, and intermediate and finished products; and areas
where industrial activity has taken place in the past and significant materials
remain and are exposed to stormwater. For the categories of industries
identified in paragraph (b)(14)(xi) of this section, the term includes only
storm water discharges from all the areas (except access roads and rail lines)
that are listed in the previous sentence where material handling equipment
or activities, raw materials, intermediate products, final products, waste
materials, by-products, or industrial machinery are exposed to storm water.
For the purposes of this paragraph, material handling activities include the
storage, loading and unloading, transportation, or conveyance of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or waste
product. The term excludes areas located on plant lands separate from the
plant's industrial activities, such as office buildings and accompanying
parking lots as long as the drainage from the excluded areas is not mixed
with storm water drained from the above described areas. Industrial
facilities (including industrial facilities that are Federally, State, or
municipally owned or operated that meet the description of the facilities
listed in this paragraph (b)(14)(i)-(xi) of this section) include those facilities
designated under the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section. The
following categories of facilities are considered to be engaging in
``industrial activity'' for purposes of this subsection:

(i) Facilities subject to storm water effluent limitations guidelines, new
source performance standards, or toxic pollutant effluent standards under
Chapter 525 (except facilities with toxic pollutant effluent standards which
are exempted under category (xi) in paragraph (b)(14) of this section);

(ii) Facilities classified as Standard Industrial Classifications 24 (except
2434), 26 (except 265 and 267), 28 (except 283), 29, 31l, 32 (except 323),
33, 344l, 373;

(iii) Facilities classified as Standard Industrial Classifications 10 through 14
(mineral industry) including active or inactive mining operations (except for
areas of coal mining operations no longer meeting the definition of a
reclamation area under 40 CFR 434.11(1) because the performance bond
issued to the facility by the appropriate SMCRA authority has been released,
or except for areas of non-coal mining operations which have been released
from applicable State or Federal reclamation requirements after December
17, 1990) and oil and gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment
operations, or transmission facilities that discharge storm water
contaminated by contact with or that has come into contact with, any
overburden, raw material, intermediate products, finished products,
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


byproducts or waste products located on the site of such operations;
(inactive mining operations are mining sites that are not being actively
mined, but which have an identifiable owner/operator; inactive mining sites
do not include sites where mining claims are being maintained prior to
disturbances associated with the extraction, beneficiation, or processing of
mined materials, nor sites where minimal activities are undertaken for the
sole purpose of maintaining a mining claim);

(iv) Hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities, including
those that are operating under interim status or a permit under subtitle C of
RCRA;

(v) Landfills, land application sites, and open dumps that receive or have
received any industrial wastes (waste that is received from any of the
facilities described under this subsection) including those that are subject to
regulation under subtitle D of RCRA;

(vi) Facilities involved in the recycling of materials, including metal scrap
yards, battery reclaimers, salvage yards, and automobile junkyards,
including but limited to those classified as Standard Industrial Classification
5015 and 5093;

(vii) Steam electric power generating facilities, including coal handling sites;

(viii) Transportation facilities classified as Standard Industrial
Classifications 40, 41, 42 (except 4221-25), 43, 44, 45, and 5171 which have
vehicle maintenance shops, equipment cleaning operations, or airport
deicing operations. Only those portions of the facility that are either
involved in vehicle maintenance (including vehicle rehabilitation,
mechanical repairs, painting, fueling, and lubrication),equipment cleaning
operations, airport deicing operations, or which are otherwise identified
under paragraphs (b)(14) (i)-(vii) or (ix)-(xi) of this section are associated
with industrial activity;

(ix) Treatment works treating domestic sewage or any other sewage sludge
or wastewater treatment device or system, used in the storage treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land
dedicated to the disposal of sewage sludge that are located within the
confines of the facility, with a design flow of 1.0 mgd or more, or required to
have an approved pretreatment program under Chapter 528. Not included
are farm lands, domestic gardens or lands used for sludge management
where sludge is beneficially reused and which are not physically located in
the confines of the facility, or as are in compliance with section 405 of the
CWA;
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(x) Construction activity including clearing, grading and excavation
activities except: operations that result in the disturbance of less than five
acres of total land area which are not part of a larger common plan of
development or sale;

(xi) Facilities under Standard Industrial Classifications 20, 21,22, 23, 2434,
25, 265, 267, 27, 283, 285, 30, 31 (except 311), 323, 34 (except 3441), 35, 36,
37 (except 373), 38, 39, 4221-25, (and which are not otherwise included
within categories (ii)-(x));

(15) Uncontrolled sanitary landfill means a landfill or open dump, whether
in operation or closed, that does not meet the requirements for runon or
runoff controls established pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act.

(c) Application requirements for storm water discharges associated with
industrial activity--

(1) Individual application. Dischargers of storm water associated with
industrial activity are required to apply for an individual permit, apply for a
permit through a group application, or seek coverage under a promulgated
storm water general permit. Facilities that are required to obtain an
individual permit, or any discharge of storm water which the Director is
evaluating for designation (see 40 CFR 124.52(c)) under paragraph (a)(1)(v)
of this section and is not a municipal separate storm sewer, and which is not
part of a group application described under paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
shall submit an NPDES application in accordance with the requirements of
Section 4 as modified and supplemented by the provisions of the remainder
of this paragraph. Applicants for discharges composed entirely of storm
water shall submit Form 1 and Form 2F or approved equivalents. Applicants
for discharges composed of storm water and non-storm water shall submit
Form 1, Form 2C, and Form 2F or approved equivalents. Applicants for new
sources or new discharges (as defined in Chapter 520) composed of
stormwater and non-storm water shall submit Form 1, Form 2D, and Form
2F or approved equivalents.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) (ii)-(iv), the operator of a storm
water discharge associated with industrial activity subject to this section
shall provide:

(A) A site map showing topography (or indicating the outline of drainage
areas served by the outfall(s) covered in the application if a topographic map
is unavailable) of the facility including: each of its drainage and discharge
structures; the drainage area of each storm water outfall; paved areas and
buildings within the drainage area of each storm water outfall, each past or
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


present area used for outdoor storage or disposal of significant materials,
each existing structural control measure to reduce pollutants in storm water
runoff, materials loading and access areas, areas where pesticides,
herbicides, soil conditioners and fertilizers are applied, each of its hazardous
waste treatment, storage or disposal facilities (including each area not
required to have a RCRA permit which is used for accumulating hazardous
waste under 40 CFR 262.34); each well where fluids from the facility are
injected underground; springs, and other surface water bodies which receive
stormwater discharges from the facility;

(B) An estimate of the area of impervious surfaces (including paved areas
and building roofs) and the total area drained by each outfall(within a mile
radius of the facility) and a narrative description of the following: Significant
materials that in the three years prior to the submittal of this application
have been treated, stored or disposed in a manner to allow exposure to
storm water; method of treatment, storage or disposal of such materials;
materials management practices employed, in the three years prior to the
submittal of this application, to minimize contact by these materials with
storm water runoff; materials loading and access areas; the location, manner
and frequency in which pesticides, herbicides, soil conditioners and
fertilizers are applied; the location and a description of existing structural
and non-structural control measures to reduce pollutants in storm water
runoff; and a description of the treatment the storm water receives,
including the ultimate disposal of any solid or fluid wastes other than by
discharge;

(C) A certification that all outfalls that should contain storm water
discharges associated with industrial activity have been tested or evaluated
for the presence of non-storm water discharges which are not covered by a
NPDES permit; tests for such non-storm water discharges may include
smoke tests, fluorometric dye tests, analysis of accurate schematics, as well
as other appropriate tests. The certification shall include a description of the
method used, the date of any testing, and the on-site drainage points that
were directly observed during a test;

(D) Existing information regarding significant leaks or spills of toxic or
hazardous pollutants at the facility that have taken place within the three
years prior to the submittal of this application;

(E) Quantitative data based on samples collected during storm events and
collected in accordance with Section 4 of this part from all outfalls
containing a storm water discharge associated with industrial activity for the
following parameters:
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) Any pollutant limited in an effluent guideline to which the facility is
subject;

(2) Any pollutant listed in the facility's NPDES permit for its process
wastewater (if the facility is operating under an existing NPDES permit);

(3) Oil and grease, pH, BOD-5, COD, TSS, total phosphorus, total Kjeldahl
nitrogen, and nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen;

(4) Any information on the discharge required under Section 4 (g)(7) (iii);

(5) Flow measurements or estimates of the flow rate, and the total amount of
discharge for the storm event(s) sampled, and the method of flow
measurement or estimation; and

(6) The date and duration (in hours) of the storm event(s) sampled, rainfall
measurements or estimates of the storm event (in inches) which generated
the sampled runoff and the duration between the storm event sampled and
the end of the previous measurable (greater than 0.1 inch rainfall) storm
event (in hours);

(F) Operators of a discharge which is composed entirely of storm water are
exempt from the requirements of Section 3(g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4), (g)(5),
(g)(7)(i), (g)(7)(ii), and (g)(7)(v); and

(G) Operators of new sources or new discharges (as defined in Chapter 520)
which are composed in part or entirely of storm water must include
estimates for the pollutants or parameters listed in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E) of
this section instead of actual sampling data, along with the source of each
estimate. Operators of new sources or new discharges composed in part or
entirely of storm water must provide quantitative data for the parameters
listed in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E) of this section within two years after
commencement of discharge, unless such data has already been reported
under the monitoring requirements of the NPDES permit for the discharge.
Operators of a new source or new discharge which is composed entirely of
storm water are exempt from the requirements of Sections 4 (k)(3)(ii),
(k)(3)(iii), and (k)(5).

(ii) The operator of an existing or new storm water discharge that is
associated with industrial activity solely under paragraph (b)(14)(x)of this
section, is exempt from the requirements of Section 4 (g) and paragraph
(c)(1)(i) of this section. Such operator shall provide a narrative description
of:

(A) The location (including a map) and the nature of the construction
activity;
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(B) The total area of the site and the area of the site that is expected to
undergo excavation during the life of the permit;

(C) Proposed measures, including best management practices, to control
pollutants in storm water discharges during construction, including a brief
description of applicable State and local erosion and sediment control
requirements;

(D) Proposed measures to control pollutants in storm water discharges that
will occur after construction operations have been completed, including a
brief description of applicable State or local erosion and sediment control
requirements;

(E) An estimate of the runoff coefficient of the site and the increase in
impervious area after the construction addressed in the permit application is
completed, the nature of fill material and existing data describing the soil or
the quality of the discharge; and

(F) The name of the receiving water.

(iii) The operator of an existing or new discharge composed entirely of storm
water from an oil or gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment
operation, or transmission facility is not required to submit a permit
application in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, unless the
facility:

(A) Has had a discharge of storm water resulting in the discharge of a
reportable quantity for which notification is or was required pursuant to 40
CFR 117.21 or 40 CFR 302.6 at anytime since November 16, 1987; or

(B) Has had a discharge of storm water resulting in the discharge of a
reportable quantity for which notification is or was required pursuant to 40
CFR 110.6 at any time since November 16, 1987; or

(C) Contributes to a violation of a water quality standard.

(iv) The operator of an existing or new discharge composed entirely of storm
water from a mining operation is not required to submit a permit
application unless the discharge has come into contact with, any
overburden, raw material, intermediate products, finished product,
byproduct or waste products located on the site of such operations.

(v) Applicants shall provide such other information the Director may
reasonably require under Section 4 (g)(13) to determine whether to issue a
permit and may require any facility subject to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this
section to comply with paragraph (c)(1)(i)of this section.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) Group application for discharges associated with industrial activity. In
lieu of individual applications or notice of intent to be covered by a general
permit for storm water discharges associated with industrial activity, a
group application may be filed by an entity representing a group of
applicants (except facilities that have existing individual NPDES permits for
storm water) that are part of the same subcategory (see Chapter 525) or,
where such grouping is inapplicable, are sufficiently similar as to be
appropriate for general permit coverage under Chapter 529. The part 1
application shall be submitted to the Office of Water Enforcement and
Permits, U.S. EPA, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 (EN-336) for
approval. Once a part 1 application is approved, group applicants are to
submit Part 2 of the group application to the Office of Water Enforcement
and Permits. A group application shall consist of:

(i) Part 1. Part 1 of a group application shall:

(A) Identify the participants in the group application by name and location.
Facilities participating in the group application shall be listed in nine
subdivisions, based on the facility location relative to the nine precipitation
zones indicated in 40 CFR 122, appendix E.

(B) Include a narrative description summarizing the industrial activities of
participants of the group application and explaining why the participants, as
a whole, are sufficiently similar to be a covered by a general permit;

(C) Include a list of significant materials stored exposed to precipitation by
participants in the group application and materials management practices
employed to diminish contact by these materials with precipitation and
storm water runoff;

(D) For groups of more than 1,000 members, identify at least 100
dischargers participating in the group application from which quantitative
data will be submitted. For groups of 100 or more members, identify a
minimum of ten percent of the dischargers participating in the group
application from which quantitative data will be submitted. For groups of
between 21 and 99 members identify a minimum of ten dischargers
participating in the group application from which quantitative data will be
submitted. For groups of 4 to 20 members, identify a minimum of 50
percent of the dischargers participating in the group application from which
quantitative data will be submitted. For groups with more than 10 members,
either a minimum of two dischargers from each precipitation zone indicated
in 40 CFR 122, appendix E in which ten or more members of the group are
located, or one discharger from each precipitation zone indicated in 40 CFR
40, appendix E in which nine or fewer members of the group are located,
must be identified to submit quantitative data. For groups of 4 to 10
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


members, at least one facility in each precipitation zone indicated in 40 CFR
122, appendix E in which members of the group are located must be
identified to submit quantitative data. A description of why the facilities
selected to perform sampling and analysis are representative of the group as
a whole in terms of the information provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B) and
(c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, shall accompany this section. Different factors
impacting the nature of the storm water discharges, such as the processes
used and material management, shall be represented, to the extent feasible,
in a manner roughly equivalent to their proportion in the group.

(ii) Part 2. Part 2 of a group application shall contain quantitative data
(NPDES Form 2F or approved equivalent), as modified by paragraph (c)(1)
of this section, so that when part 1 and part 2 of the group application are
taken together, a complete NPDES application (Form 1, Form 2C, and Form
2F or approved equivalents) can be evaluated for each discharger identified
in paragraph(c)(2)(i)(D) of this section.

(d) Application requirements for large and medium municipal separate
storm sewer discharges. For the purposes of this Chapter, the application
requirements set forth in 40 CFR 122.26 (d), are incorporated herein by
reference.

(e) Application deadlines under paragraph (a)(1). Any operator of a point
source required to obtain a permit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section
that does not have an effective NPDES permit covering its storm water
outfalls shall submit an application in accordance with the following
deadlines:

(1) Individual applications.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, for any storm
water discharge associated with industrial activity identified in paragraphs
(b)(14) (i) through (xi) of this section, that is not part of a group application
as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section or which is not authorized by
a storm water general permit, a permit application made pursuant to
paragraph (C) of this section shall be submitted to the Director by October 1,
1992;

(ii) For any storm water discharge associated with industrial activity from a
facility that is owned or operated by a municipality with a population of less
than 100,000 other than an airport, power plant, or uncontrolled sanitary
landfill, permit application requirements are contained in paragraph (g) of
this section.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) For any group application submitted in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)
of this section:

(i) Part 1.

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, part 1 of the
application shall be submitted to the Director, Office of Wastewater
Enforcement and Compliance by September 30, 1991;

(B) Any municipality with a population of less than 250,000 shall not be
required to submit a part 1 application before May 18, 1992.

(C) For any storm water discharge associated with industrial activity from a
facility that is owned or operated by a municipality with a population of less
than 100,000 other than an airport, power plant, or uncontrolled sanitary
landfill, permit applications requirements are reserved.

(ii) Based on information in the part 1 application, the Director will approve
or deny the members in the group application within 60 days after receiving
part 1 of the group application.

(iii) Part 2.

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, part 2 of
the application shall be submitted to the Director, Office of Wastewater
Enforcement and Compliance by October 1,1992;

(B) Any municipality with a population of less than 250,000 shall not be
required to submit a part 1 application before May 17, 1993.

(C) For any storm water discharge associated with industrial activity from a
facility that is owned or operated by a municipality with a population of less
than 100,000 other than an airport, power plant, or uncontrolled sanitary
landfill, permit applications requirements are reserved.

(iv) Rejected facilities.

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, facilities
that are rejected as members of the group shall submit an individual
application (or obtain coverage under an applicable general permit) no later
than 12 months after the date of receipt of the notice of rejection or October
1, 1992, whichever comes first.

(B) Facilities that are owned or operated by a municipality and that are
rejected as members of part 1 group application shall submit an individual
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


application no later than 180 days after the date of receipt of the notice of
rejection or October 1, 1992, whichever is later.

(v) A facility listed under paragraph (b)(14) (i)-(xi) of this section may add
on to a group application submitted in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i)
of this section at the discretion of the Office of Water Enforcement and
Permits, and only upon a showing of good cause by the facility and the group
applicant; the request for the addition of the facility shall be made no later
than February 18, 1992; the addition of the facility shall not cause the
percentage of the facilities that are required to submit quantitative data to
be less than 10%, unless there are over 100 facilities in the group that are
submitting quantitative data; approval to become part of group application
must be obtained from the group or the trade association representing the
individual facilities.

(3) For any discharge from a large municipal separate storm sewer system;

(i) Part 1 of the application shall be submitted to the Director by November
18, 1991;

(ii) Based on information received in the part 1 application the Director will
approve or deny a sampling plan under paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(E) of this
section within 90 days after receiving the part 1 application;

(iii) Part 2 of the application shall be submitted to the Director by November
16, 1992.

(4) For any discharge from a medium municipal separate storm sewer
system;

(i) Part 1 of the application shall be submitted to the Director by May 18,
1992.

(ii) Based on information received in the part 1 application the Director will
approve or deny a sampling plan under 40 CFR 122.26 (d)(1)(iv)(E) within
90 days after receiving the part 1 application.

(iii) Part 2 of the application shall be submitted to the Director by May 17,
1993.

(5) A permit application shall be submitted to the Director within 60 days of
notice, unless permission for a later date is granted by the Director (see 40
CFR 124.52(c)), for:

(i) A storm water discharge which the Director, or in States with approved
NPDES programs, either the Director or the EPA Regional Administrator,
  06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
        Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


determines that the discharge contributes to a violation of a water quality
standard or is a significant contributor of pollutants to waters of the State
(see paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section);

(ii) A storm water discharge subject to paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section.

(6) Facilities with existing NPDES permits for storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity shall maintain existing permits. Facilities
with permits for storm water discharges associated with industrial activity
which expire on or after May 18, 1992 shall submit a new application in
accordance with the requirements of Section 4 and paragraph (c)(Form 1,
Form 2F or approved equivalents, and other applicable Forms).

(7) The Director shall issue or deny permits for discharges composed
entirely of storm water under this section in accordance with the following
schedule:

(i)

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(7)(i)(B) of this section, the Director
shall issue or deny permits for storm water discharges associated with
industrial activity no later than October 1, 1993, or, for new sources or
existing sources which fail to submit a complete permit application by
October 1, 1992, one year after receipt of a complete permit application;

(B) For any municipality with a population of less than 250,000 which
submits a timely Part I group application under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of
this section, the Director shall issue or deny permits for storm water
discharges associated with industrial activity no later than May 17, 1994, or,
for any such municipality which fails to submit a complete Part II group
permit application by May 17, 1993, one year after receipt of a complete
permit application;

(ii) The Director shall issue or deny permits for large municipal separate
storm sewer systems no later than November 16, 1993, or, for new sources or
existing sources which fail to submit a complete permit application by
November 16, 1992, one year after receipt of a complete permit application;

(iii) The Director shall issue or deny permits for medium municipal separate
storm sewer systems no later than May 17, 1994, or, for new sources or
existing sources which fail to submit a complete permit application by May
17, 1993, one year after receipt of a complete permit application.

(f) Petitions.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) Any operator of a municipal separate storm sewer system may petition
the Director to require a separate NPDES permit (or a permit issued under
an approved NPDES State program) for any discharge into the municipal
separate storm sewer system.

(2) Any person may petition the Director to require a NPDES permit for a
discharge which is composed entirely of storm water which contributes to a
violation of a water quality standard or is a significant contributor of
pollutants to waters of the State.

(3) The owner or operator of a municipal separate storm sewer system may
petition the Director to reduce the Census estimates of the population served
by such separate system to account for storm water discharged to combined
sewers as defined by 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(11) that is treated in a publicly
owned treatment works. In municipalities in which combined sewers are
operated, the Census estimates of population may be reduced proportional
to the fraction, based on estimated lengths, of the length of combined sewers
over the sum of the length of combined sewers and municipal separate
storm sewers where an applicant has submitted the NPDES permit number
associated with each discharge point and a map indicating areas served by
combined sewers and the location of any combined sewer overflow
discharge point.

(4) Any person may petition the Director for the designation of a large or
medium municipal separate storm sewer system as defined by paragraphs
(b)(4)(iv) or (b)(7)(iv) of this section.

(5) The Director shall make a final determination on any petition received
under this section within 90 days after receiving the petition.

(g) Application requirements for discharges composed entirely of storm
water under Clean Water Act section 402(p)(6). Any operator of a point
source required to obtain a permit under paragraph (a)(9) of this section
shall submit an application in accordance with the following requirements.

(1) Application deadlines. The operator shall submit an application in
accordance with the following deadlines:

(i) A discharger which the Director determines to contribute to a violation of
a water quality standard or is a significant contributor of pollutants to
waters of the State shall apply for a permit to the Director within 180 days of
receipt of notice, unless permission for a later date is granted by the Director
(see 40 CFR 124.52(c)); or
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9 Storm water discharges. [see 40
       Cfr 122.26] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(ii) All other dischargers shall apply to the Director no later than August 7,
2001.

(2) Application requirements. The operator shall submit an application in
accordance with the following requirements, unless otherwise modified by
the Director:

(i) Individual application for non-municipal discharges. The requirements
contained in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) Application requirements for municipal separate storm sewer
discharges. The requirements contained in 40 CFR 122.26 (d).

(iii) Notice of intent to be covered by a general permit issued by the Director.
The requirements contained in Chapter 529.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9-A Post Construction Storm water
discharges in urban impaired stream watersheds. (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 9-A. Post Construction Storm water discharges in urban
impaired stream watersheds.

An owner or operator of property in an urban impaired stream watershed
that has been designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq., and 40 C.F.R.
§122.26 (a)(9)(i)(D), or the Department pursuant to Chapter 521(9)(a)(1)(v),
as requiring a storm water discharge permit due to post-construction storm
water flow from impervious area, shall either provide a notice of intent to
comply with a general permit adopted pursuant to Chapter 529, if available,
or shall apply for an individual permit.

(a) Individual permit requirements. To qualify for an individual permit, the
following requirements must be met in addition to otherwise applicable
requirements.

(1) The basic standards described in the Department's Stormwater
Management Rules, Chapter 500, Section 4(A), addressing erosion and
sedimentation control, inspection and maintenance, and housekeeping must
be met.

(2) Provisions for treatment of stormwater from the impervious area of the
property must be provided that comply with the general standards described
in the Department's Stormwater Management Rules, Chapter 500, Section
4(B), with no exception for a linear portion of a project. If on-site conditions
make storm water treatment on the operator's site impracticable, off-site
treatment may be approved if located in the same watershed. If provisions
for treatment of storm water meeting these standards are not in place at the
time of application, then the application must include plans for storm water
treatment measures that will be put in place within two years of permit
issuance. The Department may extend the two-year period up to five years if
the parcel includes five acres or more of impervious area and interim
milestones are approved.

(3) Inspections of best management practices must occur at least annually
by a qualified person to determine if they are in place and functioning as
intended, and if not, corrective action must be taken within 30 days.
Maintenance plans for the property must include provisions for sweeping
paved areas at least once per year after snowmelt.

(4) An on-going monitoring program must be established, either by
measuring the water quality of storm water discharge from the project site
for parameters and at a frequency approved by the Department, or by
contributing to a Department-approved monitoring program, at a rate
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 9-A Post Construction Storm water
discharges in urban impaired stream watersheds. (Code of Maine
                     Rules (2021 Edition))

consistent with assessments to other participants of a Department-approved
watershed management plan for monitoring work.

(b) Stream restoration. When the stream channel or riparian area has been
impacted due to storm water flow from the applicant's impervious area, the
Department may require the following:

(1) Measures be taken to mitigate the effects of the past storm water
discharges from the applicant's property on the urban impaired stream, such
as restoration of floodplain area, establishment of vegetated riparian buffers,
and stabilization of the stream channel. Where the adverse effect to be
mitigated is the result of discharges from the property of applicant in
combination with discharges from other property, then the mitigation
required will be in proportion to the estimated discharge from the
applicant's property in relation to the amount of contributing discharge
from other properties; or

(2) Where a Department-approved watershed management plan exists and
is being implemented, a financial contribution, or a combination of a
financial contribution and mitigation toward restoration of floodplain area,
establishment of vegetated riparian buffers, and stabilization of the stream
channel, consistent with the approved watershed management plan. The
financial contribution must be based on the amount of impact caused by the
operator's past discharges where this can be assessed, Otherwise, payment
may be based on the percentage of impervious area in the watershed that is
located on the applicant's property, multiplied by the estimated total cost for
stream channel restoration. Payments may be spread over multiple years in
accordance with a schedule approved by the Department, and must be
utilized for specific mitigation work identified in the watershed plan.

(c) Credit for watershed plan contributions. The Department may allow an
applicant to reduce the amount of treatment for impervious area required in
section 9-A(a) by giving credit for prior contributions toward
implementation of a Department-approved watershed management plan.
The amount of credit given is determined by the department on a case-by-
case basis.

(d) Additional requirements. The Department may establish additional on-
site mitigation and stream restoration requirements, if necessary, to ensure
progress in restoring water quality in the impaired stream.
  06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 10 Silvicultural activities. [see 40
        Cfr 122.27] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 10. Silvicultural activities. [see 40 CFR 122.27]

(a) Permit requirement. Silvicultural point sources, as defined in this
section, as point sources subject to the NPDES permit program.

(b) Definitions.

(1) Silvicultural point source means any discernible, confined and discrete
conveyance related to rock crushing, gravel washing, log sorting, or log
storage facilities which are operated in connection with silvicultural
activities and from which pollutants are discharged into waters of the State.
The term does not include non-point source silvicultural activities such as
nursery operations, site preparation, reforestation and subsequent cultural
treatment, thinning, prescribed burning, pest and fire control, harvesting
operations, surface drainage, or road construction and maintenance from
which there is natural runoff. However, some of these activities (such as
stream crossing for roads)may involve point source discharges of dredged or
fill material Which may require a CWA section 404 permit (See 33 CFR
209.120 and part 233).

(2) Rock crushing and gravel washing facilities means facilities which
process crushed and broken stone, gravel, and rip rap (See 40 CFR part 436,
subpart B, including the effluent limitations guidelines).

(3) Log sorting and log storage facilities means facilities whose discharges
result from the holding of unprocessed wood, for example, logs or
roundwood with bark or after removal of bark held in self-contained bodies
of water (mill ponds or log ponds) or stored on land where water is applied
intentionally on the logs (wet decking). (See 40 CFR part 429, subpart I,
including the effluent limitations guidelines).

AUTHORITY: 38 MRSA §§ 341-D and 413

APA EFFECTIVE DATE: April 5, 1999

EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule became effective upon the approval of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency of related parts of the State's application
to administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program
of the Federal Clean Water Act, pursuant to 40 CFR part 123. This approval
was granted through a January 12, 2001 (the presumed effective date) letter
from Mindy S. Lubber of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency to Governor Angus S. King, Jr. The APA Office was notified of this
action through a memo, which included a copy of the Lubber letter, from
Dennis Merrill of the Department of Environmental Protection dated
January 23, 2001.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § 10 Silvicultural activities. [see 40
       Cfr 122.27] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


AMENDED: March 16, 2010 - filing 2010-81
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix A (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Appendix A. NPDES Primary Industry Categories

Any permit issued after June 30, 1981 to dischargers in the following
categories shall include effluent limitations and a compliance schedule to
meet the requirements of section 301(b)(2)(A), (C), (D), (E) and (F) of CWA,
whether or not applicable effluent limitations guidelines have been
promulgated

Industry Category

Adhesives and sealants

Aluminum forming

Auto and other laundries

Battery manufacturing

Coal mining

Coil coating

Copper forming

Electrical and electronic components

Electroplating

Explosives manufacturing

Foundries

Gum and wood chemicals

Inorganic chemicals manufacturing

Iron and steel manufacturing

Leather tanning and finishing

Mechanical products manufacturing

Nonferrous metals manufacturing

Ore mining

Organic chemicals manufacturing
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix A (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Paint and ink formulation

Pesticides

Petroleum refining

Pharmaceutical preparations

Photographic equipment and supplies

Plastics processing

Plastic and synthetic materials manufacturing

Porcelain enameling

Printing and publishing

Pulp and paper mills

Rubber processing

Soap and detergent manufacturing

Steam electric power plants

Textile mills

Timber products processing
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix B (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Appendix B. Criteria for Determining a Concentrated Animal Feeding
Operation

An animal feeding operation is a concentrated animal feeding operation for
purposes of Section 6 if either of the following criteria are met.

(a) More than the numbers of animals specified in any of the following
categories are confined:

(1) 1,000 slaughter and feeder cattle,

(2) 700 mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows),

(3) 2,500 swine each weighing over 25 kilograms (approximately 55
pounds),

(4) 500 horses,

(5) 10,000 sheep or lambs,

(6) 55,000 turkeys,

(7) 100,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has continuous overflow
watering),

(8) 30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has a liquid manure
system),

(9) 5,000 ducks, or

(10) 1,000 animal units; or

(b) More than the following number and types of animals are confined:

(1) 300 slaughter or feeder cattle,

(2) 200 mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows),

(3) 750 swine each weighing over 25 kilograms (approximately 55 pounds),

(4) 150 horses,

(5) 3,000 sheep or lambs,

(6) 16,500 turkeys,

(7) 30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has continuous overflow
watering),
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix B (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


(8) 9,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has a liquid manure handling
system),

(9) 1,500 ducks, or

(10) 300 animal units;

and either one of the following conditions are met: pollutants are discharged
into navigable waters through a manmade ditch, flushing system or other
similar man-made device; or pollutants are discharged into waters of the
State which originate outside of and pass over, across, or through the facility
or otherwise come into direct contact with the animals confined in the
operation.

Provided, however, that no animal feeding operation is a concentrated
animal feeding operation as defined above if such animal feeding operation
discharges only in the event of a 25 year, 24-hour storm event.

The term animal unit means a unit of measurement for any animal feeding
operation calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of
slaughter and feeder cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature
dairy cattle multiplied by 1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over 25
kilograms (approximately 55 pounds) multiplied by 0.4, plus the number of
sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses multiplied by 2.0.

The term manmade means constructed by man and used for the purpose of
transporting wastes.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix C (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Appendix C. Criteria for Determining a Concentrated Aquatic Animal
Production Facility

A hatchery, fish farm, or other facility is a concentrated aquatic animal
production facility for purposes of Section 7 if it contains, grows, or holds
aquatic animals in either of the following categories:

(a) Cold water fish species or other cold water aquatic animals in pounds,
raceways, or other similar structures which discharge at least 30 days per
year but does not include:

(1) Facilities which produce less than 9,090 harvest weight kilograms
(approximately 20,000 pounds) of aquatic animals per year; and

(2) Facilities which feed less than 2,272 kilograms (approximately 5,000
pounds) of food during the calendar month of maximum feeding.

(b) Warm water fish species or other warm water aquatic animals in pounds,
raceways, or other similar structures which discharge at least 30 days per
year, but does not include:

(1) Closed ponds which discharge only during periods of excess runoff; or

(2) Facilities which produce less than 45,454 harvest weight kilograms
(approximately 100,000 pounds) of aquatic animals per year.

``Cold water aquatic animals'' include, but are not limited to, the
Salmonidae family of fish; e.g., trout and salmon.

``Warm water aquatic animals'' include, but are not limited to, the
Ameiuride, Centrarchidae and Cyprinidae families of fish; e.g., respectively,
catfish, sunfish and minnows.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Appendix D. NPDES Permit Application Testing Requirements

Table I--Testing Requirements for Organic Toxic Pollutants by Industrial
Category for Existing Dischargers

GC/MS Fraction 1

Industrial category                             Base   Volatile Acid Neutral Pesticide
Adhesives and Sealants                          2      2             2
Aluminum Forming                                2      2             2
Auto and Other Laundries                        2      2             2       2
Battery Manufacturing                           2                    2
Coal Mining                                     2      2             2       2
Coil Coating                                    2      2             2
Copper Forming                                  2      2             2
Electric and Electronic Components              2      2             2       2
Electroplating                                  2      2             2
Explosives Manufacturing                               2             2
Foundries                                       2      2             2
Gum and Wood Chemicals                          2      2             2       2
Inorganic Chemicals Manufacturing               2      2             2
Iron and Steel Manufacturing                    2      2             2
Leather Tanning and Finishing                   2      2             2       2
Mechanical Products Manufacturing               2      2             2
Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing                 2      2             2       2
Ore Mining                                      2      2             2       2
Organic Chemicals Manufacturing                 2      2             2       2
Paint and Ink Formulation                       2      2             2       2
Pesticides                                      2      2             2       2
Petroleum Refining                              2      2             2       2
Pharmaceutical Preparations                     2      2             2
Photographic Equipment and Supplies             2      2             2       2
Plastic and Synthetic Materials Manufacturing   2      2             2       2
Plastic Processing                              2
Porcelain Enameling                             2      2            2
Printing and Publishing                         2      2            2       2
Pulp and Paper Mills                            2      2            2       2
Rubber Processing                               2      2            2
Soap and Detergent Manufacturing                2      2            2
Steam Electric Power Plants                     2      2            2
Textile Mills                                   2      2            2       2
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Timber Products Processing                        2     2           2     2

\1\ The toxic pollutants in each fraction are listed in Table II.

\2\ Testing required.

Table II--Organic Toxic Pollutants in Each of Four Fractions in Analysis by
Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectroscopy (GS/MS)

Volatiles

1V acrolein

2V acrylonitrile

3V benzene

5V bromoform

6V carbon tetrachloride

7V chlorobenzene

8V chlorodibromomethane

9V chloroethane

10V 2-chloroethylvinyl ether

11V chloroform

12V dichlorobromomethane

14V 1,1-dichloroethane

15V 1,2-dichloroethane

16V 1,1-dichloroethylene

17V 1,2-dichloropropane

18V 1,3-dichloropropylene

19V ethylbenzene

20V methyl bromide

21V methyl chloride
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


22V methylene chloride

23V 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane

24V tetrachloroethylene

25V toluene

26V 1,2-trans-dichloroethylene

27V 1,1,1-trichloroethane

28V 1,1,2-trichloroethane

29V trichloroethylene

31V vinyl chloride

Acid Compounds

1A 2-chlorophenol

2A 2,4-dichlorophenol

3A 2,4-dimethylphenol

4A 4,6-dinitro-o-cresol

5A 2,4-dinitrophenol

6A 2-nitrophenol

7A 4-nitrophenol

8A p-chloro-m-cresol

9A pentachlorophenol

10A phenol

11A 2,4,6-trichlorophenol

Base/Neutral

1B acenaphthene

2B acenaphthylene
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


3B anthracene

4B benzidine

5B benzo(a)anthracene

6B benzo(a)pyrene

7B 3,4-benzofluoranthene

8B benzo(ghi)perylene

9B benzo(k)fluoranthene

10B bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane

11B bis(2-chloroethyl)ether

12B bis(2-chloroisopropyl)ether

13B bis (2-ethylhexyl)phthalate

14B 4-bromophenyl phenyl ether

15B butylbenzyl phthalate

16B 2-chloronaphthalene

17B 4-chlorophenyl phenyl ether

18B chrysene

19B dibenzo(a,h)anthracene

20B 1,2-dichlorobenzene

21B 1,3-dichlorobenzene

22B 1,4-dichlorobenzene

23B 3,3'-dichlorobenzidine

24B diethyl phthalate

25B dimethyl phthalate

26B di-n-butyl phthalate
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


27B 2,4-dinitrotoluene

28B 2,6-dinitrotoluene

29B di-n-octyl phthalate

30B 1,2-diphenylhydrazine (as azobenzene)

31B fluroranthene

32B fluorene

33B hexachlorobenzene

34B hexachlorobutadiene

35B hexachlorocyclopentadiene

36B hexachloroethane

37B indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene

38B isophorone

39B napthalene

40B nitrobenzene

41B N-nitrosodimethylamine

42B N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine

43B N-nitrosodiphenylamine

44B phenanthrene

45B pyrene

46B 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene

Pesticides

1P aldrin

2P alpha-BHC

3P beta-BHC
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


4P gamma-BHC

5P delta-BHC

6P chlordane

7P 4,4'-DDT

8P 4,4'-DDE

9P 4,4'-DDD

10P dieldrin

11P alpha-endosulfan

12P beta-endosulfan

13P endosulfan sulfate

14P endrin

15P endrin aldehyde

16P heptachlor

17P heptachlor epoxide

18P PCB-1242

19P PCB-1254

20P PCB-1221

21P PCB-1232

22P PCB-1248

23P PCB-1260

24P PCB-1016

25P toxaphene

Table III--Other Toxic Pollutants (Metals and Cyanide) and Total Phenols

Antimony, Total
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Arsenic, Total

Beryllium, Total

Cadmium, Total

Chromium, Total

Copper, Total

Lead, Total

Mercury, Total

Nickel, Total

Selenium, Total

Silver, Total

Thallium, Total

Zinc, Total

Cyanide, Total

Phenols, Total

Table IV--Conventional and Nonconventional Pollutants Required To Be
Tested by Existing Dischargers if Expected to be Present

Bromide

Chlorine, Total Residual

Color

Fecal Coliform

Fluoride

Nitrate-Nitrite

Nitrogen, Total Organic

Oil and Grease

Phosphorus, Total
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Radioactivity

Sulfate

Sulfide

Sulfite

Surfactants

Aluminum, Total

Barium, Total

Boron, Total

Cobalt, Total

Iron, Total

Magnesium, Total

Molybdenum, Total

Manganese, Total

Tin, Total

Titanium, Total

Table V--Toxic Pollutants and Hazardous Substances Required To Be
Identified by Existing Dischargers if Expected To Be Present

Toxic Pollutants

Asbestos

Hazardous Substances

Acetaldehyde

Allyl alcohol

Allyl chloride

Amyl acetate

Aniline
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Benzonitrile

Benzyl chloride

Butyl acetate

Butylamine

Captan

Carbaryl

Carbofuran

Carbon disulfide

Chlorpyrifos

Coumaphos

Cresol

Crotonaldehyde

Cyclohexane

2,4-D (2,4-Dichlorophenoxy acetic acid)

Diazinon

Dicamba

Dichlobenil

Dichlone

2,2-Dichloropropionic acid

Dichlorvos

Diethyl amine

Dimethyl amine

Dintrobenzene

Diquat
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Disulfoton

Diuron

Epichlorohydrin

Ethion

Ethylene diamine

Ethylene dibromide

Formaldehyde

Furfural

Guthion

Isoprene

Isopropanolamine Dodecylbenzenesulfonate

Kelthane

Kepone

Malathion

Mercaptodimethur

Methoxychlor

Methyl mercaptan

Methyl methacrylate

Methyl parathion

Mevinphos

Mexacarbate

Monoethyl amine

Monomethyl amine

Naled
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Napthenic acid

Nitrotoluene

Parathion

Phenolsulfanate

Phosgene

Propargite

Propylene oxide

Pyrethrins

Quinoline

Resorcinol

Strontium

Strychnine

Styrene

2,4,5-T (2,4,5-Trichlorophenoxy acetic acid)

TDE (Tetrachlorodiphenylethane)

2,4,5-TP [2-(2,4,5-Trichlorophenoxy) propanoic acid]

Trichlorofan

Triethanolamine dodecylbenzenesulfonate

Triethylamine

Trimethylamine

Uranium

Vanadium

Vinyl acetate

Xylene
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Xylenol

Zirconium

Note 1: The Environmental Protection Agency has suspended the
requirements of 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and Table I of Appendix D as
they apply to certain industrial categories. The suspensions are as follows:

a. At 46 FR 2046, Jan. 8, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency
suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) as it applies to
coal mines.

b. At 46 FR 22585, Apr. 20, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency
suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the
corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c as
they apply to:

1. Testing and reporting for all four organic fractions in the Greige Mills
Subcategory of the Textile Mills industry (Subpart C--Low water use
processing of 40 CFR part 410), and testing and reporting for the pesticide
fraction in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

2. Testing and reporting for the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide fractions
in the Base and Precious Metals Subcategory of the Ore Mining and
Dressing industry (subpart B of 40 CFR part 440), and testing and reporting
for all four fractions in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

3. Testing and reporting for all four GC/MS fractions in the Porcelain
Enameling industry.

c. At 46 FR 35090, July 1, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency
suspended until further notice 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the
corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c as
they apply to:

1. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Tall Oil Rosin
Subcategory (subpart D) and Rosin-Based Derivatives Subcategory(subpart
F) of the Gum and Wood Chemicals industry (40 CFR part 454),and testing
and reporting for the pesticide and base/neutral fractions in all other
subcategories of this industrial category.

2. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Leather Tanning
and Finishing, Paint and Ink Formulation, and Photographic Supplies
industrial categories.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


3. Testing and reporting for the acid, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in
the Petroleum Refining industrial category.

4. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Paper grade Sulfite
subcategories (subparts J and U) of the Pulp and Paper industry (40 CFR
part 430); testing and reporting for the base/

neutral and pesticide fractions in the following subcategories: Deink
(subpart Q), Dissolving Kraft (subpart F), and Paperboard from Waste Paper
(subpart E); testing and reporting for the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide
fractions in the following subcategories: BCT Bleached Kraft (subpart H),
Semi-Chemical (subparts B and C), and Nonintegrated-

Fine Papers (subpart R); and testing and reporting for the acid,
base/neutral, and pesticide fractions in the following subcategories: Fine
Bleached Kraft (subpart I), Dissolving Sulfite Pulp (subpart
K),Groundwood-Fine Papers (subpart O), Market Bleached Kraft (subpart
G),Tissue from Wastepaper (subpart T), and Nonintegrated-Tissue
Papers(subpart S).

5. Testing and reporting for the base/neutral fraction in the Once-

Through Cooling Water, Fly Ash and Bottom Ash Transport Water process
wastestreams of the Steam Electric Power Plant industrial category.

This revision continues these suspensions. (Editorial Note: The words "This
revision" refer to the document published at 48 FR 14153, Apr. 1, 1983.)

For the duration of the suspensions, therefore, Table I effectively reads:

Table I--Testing Requirements for Organic Toxic Pollutants by Industry
Category

GC/MS fraction 2

                                                                              Aci
Industry category                                                  Volatile         Neutral Pesticide
                                                                              d
Adhesives and sealants                                             1          1     1
Aluminum forming                                                   1          1     1
Auto and other laundries                                           1          1     1       1
Battery manufacturing                                              1                1
Coal mining
Coil coating                                                       1          1     1
Copper forming                                                     1          1     1
Electric and electronic compounds                                  1          1     1       1
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Electroplating                                                   1   1   1
Explosives manufacturing                                         1   1
Foundries                                                        1   1   1
Gum and wood (all subparts except D and F)                       1   1
Gum and wood Subpart D--tall oil rosin                           1   1   1
Gum and wood Subpart F--rosin-based derivatives                  1   1   1
Inorganic chemicals manufacturing                                1   1   1
Iron and steel manufacturing                                     1   1   1
Leather tanning and finishing                                    1   1   1
Mechanical products manufacturing                                1   1   1
Nonferrous metals manufacturing                                  1   1   1   1
Ore mining (applies to the base and precious metals/Subpart B)       1
Organic chemicals manufacturing                                  1   1   1   1
Paint and ink formulation                                        1   1   1
Pesticides                                                       1   1   1   1
Petroleum refining                                               1
Pharmaceutical preparations                                      1   1   1
Photographic equipment and supplies                              1   1   1
Plastic and synthetic materials manufacturing                    1   1   1   1
Plastic processing                                               1
Porcelain enameling
Printing and publishing                                          1   1   1   1
Pulp and paperboard mills--see footnote 3
Rubber processing                                                1   1   1
Soap and detergent manufacturing                                 1   1   1
Steam electric power plants                                      1   1
Textile mills (Subpart C--Greige Mills are exempt from this
                                                                 1   1   1
table)
Timber products processing                                       1   1   1   1

1 Testing required.

2 The pollutants in each fraction are listed in Item V-C.

3 Pulp and Paperboard Mills:

GS/MS fractions

Subpart 3 VOA Acid Base neutral Pesticides
A         2   1    2            1
B         2   1    2            2
C         2   1    2            2
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 521 § Appendix D (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


D         2     1    2            2
E         1     1    2            1
F         1     1    2            2
G         1     1    2            2
H         1     1    2            2
I         1     1    2            2
J         1     1    1            2
K         1     1    2            2
L         1     1    2            2
M         1     1    2            2
N         1     1    2            2
O         1     1    2            2
P         1     1    2            2
Q         1     1    2            1
R         2     1    2            2
S         1     1    2            1
T         1     1    2            1
U         1     1    1            2

1 Must test.

2 Do not test unless ``reason to believe'' it is discharged.

3 Subparts are defined in 40 CFR Part 430.
