06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 1 References to Federal Regulations
     and definitions. (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 1. References to Federal Regulations and definitions.

Portions of this rule refer to federal regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Unless otherwise specified, the
federal regulations referenced are those regulations effective as of July 1,
1998, as they appear in volume 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).
Definitions for terms used in this rule may be found Chapter 520.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 2. Conditions applicable to all permits. [see 40 CFR
122.41]

The following conditions apply to all NPDES permits. Additional conditions
applicable to NPDES permits are in Section 3. All conditions applicable to
NPDES permits shall be incorporated into the permits either expressly or by
reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to these rules must
be given in the permit.

(a) Duty to comply. The permittee must comply with all conditions of this
permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Clean
Water Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination,
revocation and reissuance, or modification; or denial of a permit renewal
application.

(1) The permittee shall comply with effluent standards or prohibitions
established under section 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, and 38 MRSA,
§420 or Chapter 530.5 for toxic pollutants within the time provided in the
regulations that establish these standards or prohibitions, even if the permit
has not yet been modified to incorporate the requirement.

(2) Any person who violates any provision of the laws administered by the
Department, including without limitation, a violation of the terms of any
order, rule license, permit, approval or decision of the Board or
Commissioner is subject to the penalties set forth in 38 MRSA, §349.

(b) Duty to reapply. If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated
by this permit after the expiration date of this permit, the permittee must
apply for and obtain a new permit.

(c) Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense. It shall not be a defense for
a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to
halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with
the conditions of this permit.

(d) Duty to mitigate. The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to
minimize or prevent any discharge or sludge use or disposal in violation of
this permit which has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human
health or the environment.

(e) Proper operation and maintenance. The permittee shall at all times
properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and
control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the
permittee to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper
operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the
operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems which are
installed by a permittee only when the operation is necessary to achieve
compliance with the conditions of the permit.

(f) Permit actions. This permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or
terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit
modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of
planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit
condition.

(g) Property rights. This permit does not convey any property rights of any
sort, or any exclusive privilege.

(h) Duty to provide information. The permittee shall furnish to the
Department, within a reasonable time, any information which the
Department may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying,
revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit or to determine
compliance with this permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the
Department upon request, copies of records required to be kept by this
permit.

(i) Inspection and entry. The permittee shall allow the Department, or an
authorized representative (including an authorized contractor acting as a
representative of the Administrator), upon presentation of credentials and
other documents as may be required by law, to:

(1) Enter upon the permittee's premises where a regulated facility or activity
is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions
of this permit;

(2) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be
kept under the conditions of this permit;

(3) Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including
monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or
required under this permit; and

(4) Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring
permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by the Clean Water Act, any
substances or parameters at any location.

(j) Monitoring and records.

(1) Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be
representative of the monitored activity.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(2) Except for records of monitoring information required by this permit
related to the permittee's sewage sludge use and disposal activities, which
shall be retained for a period of at least five years, the permittee shall retain
records of all monitoring information, including all calibration and
maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous
monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit,
and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a
period of at least 3 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report
or application. This period may be extended by request of the Department at
any time.

(3) Records of monitoring information shall include:

(i) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;

(ii) The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements;

(iii) The date(s) analyses were performed;

(iv) The individual(s) who performed the analyses;

(v) The analytical techniques or methods used; and

(vi) The results of such analyses.

(4) Monitoring results must be conducted according to test procedures
approved under 40 CFR part 136 or, unless other test procedures have been
specified in the permit.

(5) State law provides that any person who tampers with or renders
inaccurate any monitoring devices or method required by any provision of
law, or any order, rule license, permit approval or decision is subject to the
penalties set forth in 38 MRSA, §349.

(k) Signatory requirement.

(1) All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Department
shall be signed and certified. (See Chapter 521, Section 5)

(2) State law provides that any person who knowingly makes any false
statement, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained by any order,
rule, permit, approval or decision of the Board or Commissioner is subject to
the penalties set forth in 38 MRSA, §349.

(l) Reporting requirements.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) Planned changes. The permittee shall give notice to the Department as
soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the
permitted facility. Notice is required only when:

(i) The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of the
criteria for determining whether a facility is a new source in 40 CFR
122.29(b); or

(ii) The alteration or addition could significantly change the nature or
increase the quantity of pollutants discharged. This notification applies to
pollutants which are subject neither to effluent limitations in the permit, nor
to notification requirements under Section 3 (a)(1).

(iii) The alteration or addition results in a significant change in the
permittee's sludge use or disposal practices, and such alteration, addition, or
change may justify the application of permit conditions that are different
from or absent in the existing permit, including notification of additional use
or disposal sites not reported during the permit application process or not
reported pursuant to an approved land application plan;

(2) Anticipated noncompliance. The permittee shall give advance notice to
the Department of any planned changes in the permitted facility or activity
which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements.

(3) Transfers. This permit is not transferable to any person except upon
application to and approval of the Department pursuant to 38 MRSA, § 344
and Chapters 2 and 522.

(4) Monitoring reports. Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals
specified elsewhere in this permit.

(i) Monitoring results must be reported on a Discharge Monitoring Report
(DMR) or forms provided or specified by the Director for reporting results of
monitoring of sludge use or disposal practices.

(ii) If the permittee monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by
the permit using test procedures approved under 40 CFR part 136 or as
specified in the permit, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
calculation and reporting of the data submitted in the DMR or sludge
reporting form specified by the Department.

(iii) Calculations for all limitations which require averaging of
measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean unless otherwise specified by
the Department in the permit.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(5) Compliance schedules. Reports of compliance or noncompliance with, or
any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in any
compliance schedule of this permit shall be submitted no later than 14 days
following each schedule date.

(6) Twenty-four hour reporting.

(i) The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger
health or the environment. Any information shall be provided orally within
24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances.
A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the
permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall
contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of
noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance
has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the
noncompliance.

(ii) The following shall be included as information which must be reported
within 24 hours under this paragraph.

(A) Any unanticipated bypass which exceeds any effluent limitation in the
permit. (See Section 2(g)).

(B) Any upset which exceeds any effluent limitation in the permit.

(C) Violation of a maximum daily discharge limitation for any of the
pollutants listed by the Department in the permit to be reported within 24
hours. (See Section 5 (g).)

(iii) The Department may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
for reports under paragraph (l)(6)(ii) of this section if the oral report has
been received within 24 hours.

(7) Other noncompliance. The permittee shall report all instances of
noncompliance not reported under paragraphs (l) (4), (5), and (6) of this
section, at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports shall
contain the information listed in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.

(8) Other information. Where the permittee becomes aware that it failed to
submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect
information in a permit application or in any report to the Department, it
shall promptly submit such facts or information.

(m) Bypass--
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(1) Definitions.

(i) Bypass means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a treatment facility.

(ii) Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable,
or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably
be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage
does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.

(2) Bypass not exceeding limitations. The permittee may allow any bypass to
occur which does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These
bypasses are not subject to the provisions of paragraphs (m)(3) and (m)(4)
of this section.

(3) Notice--

(i) Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it shall submit prior notice, if possible at least ten days before the
date of the bypass.

(ii) Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall submit notice of an
unanticipated bypass as required in paragraph (l)(6) of this section (24-hour
notice).

(4) Prohibition of bypass.

(i) Bypass is prohibited, and the Department may take enforcement action
against a permittee for bypass, unless:

(A) Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe
property damage;

(B) There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which
occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive
maintenance; and

(C) The permittee submitted notices as required under paragraph (m)(3) of
this section.
   06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 2 Conditions applicable to all
permits. [see 40 Cfr 122.41] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


(ii) The Department may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the Department determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed above in paragraph (m)(4)(i) of this section.

(n) Upset--

(1) Definition. Upset means an exceptional incident in which there is
unintentional and temporary noncompliance with technology based permit
effluent limitations because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
permittee. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.

(2) Effect of an upset. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an
action brought for noncompliance with such technology based permit
effluent limitations if the requirements of paragraph (n)(3) of this section
are met. No determination made during administrative review of claims that
noncompliance was caused by upset, and before an action for
noncompliance, is final administrative action subject to judicial review.

(3) Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. A permittee who
wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate,
through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant
evidence that:

(i) An upset occurred and that the permittee can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;

(ii) The permitted facility was at the time being properly operated; and

(iii) The permittee submitted notice of the upset as required in paragraph
(1)(6)(ii)(B) of this section (24 hour notice).

(iv) The permittee complied with any remedial measures required under
paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) Burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding the permittee seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 3 Additional conditions applicable
  to specified categories of Npdes permits. (Code of Maine Rules
                           (2021 Edition))

Section 3. Additional conditions applicable to specified categories
of NPDES permits.

[see 40 CFR 122.42] The following conditions, in addition to those set forth
in Section 2, apply to all NPDES permits within the categories specified
below:

(a) Existing manufacturing, commercial, mining, and silvicultural
dischargers. In addition to the reporting requirements under Section 2(1),
all existing manufacturing, commercial, mining, and silvicultural
dischargers must notify the Department as soon as they know or have
reason to believe:

(1) That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in the
discharge, on a routine or frequent basis, of any toxic pollutant which is not
limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the
following ``notification levels'':

(i) One hundred micrograms per liter (100 ug/l);

(ii) Two hundred micrograms per liter (200 ug/l) for acrolein and
acrylonitrile; five hundred micrograms per liter (500 ug/l) for 2,4-
dinitrophenol and for 2-methyl-4,6-dinitrophenol; and one milligram per
liter (1 mg/l) for antimony;

(iii) Five (5) times the maximum concentration value reported for that
pollutant in the permit application in accordance with Chapter 521 Section
4(g)(7); or

(iv) The level established by the Department in accordance with Section 5(f).

(2) That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in any
discharge, on a non-routine or infrequent basis, of a toxic pollutant which is
not limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the
following ``notification levels'':

(i) Five hundred micrograms per liter (500 ug/l);

(ii) One milligram per liter (1 mg/l) for antimony;

(iii) Ten (10) times the maximum concentration value reported for that
pollutant in the permit application in accordance with Chapter 521 Section
4(g)(7).

(iv) The level established by the Department in accordance with Section 5(f).
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 3 Additional conditions applicable
  to specified categories of Npdes permits. (Code of Maine Rules
                           (2021 Edition))

(b) Publicly owned treatment works. All POTWs must provide adequate
notice to the Department of the following:

(1) Any new introduction of pollutants into the POTW from an indirect
discharger which would be subject to section 301 or 306 of CWA or Chapter
528 if it were directly discharging those pollutants; and

(2) Any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants being
introduced into that POTW by a source introducing pollutants into the
POTW at the time of issuance of the permit.

(3) For purposes of this paragraph, adequate notice shall include
information on (i) the quality and quantity of effluent introduced into the
POTW, and (ii) any anticipated impact of the change on the quantity or
quality of effluent to be discharged from the POTW.

(c) Municipal separate storm sewer systems. The operator of a large or
medium municipal separate storm sewer system or a municipal separate
storm sewer that has been designated by the Director under Chapter 521
Section 9(a)(1)(v) must submit an annual report by the anniversary of the
date of the issuance of the permit for such system. The report shall include:

(1) The status of implementing the components of the storm water
management program that are established as permit conditions;

(2) Proposed changes to the storm water management programs that are
established as permit condition. Such proposed changes shall be consistent
with Chapter 521 Section 9(d)(2)(iii); and

(3) Revisions, if necessary, to the assessment of controls and the fiscal
analysis reported in the permit application under Chapter 521 Sections
9(d)(2)(iv) and (v);

(4) A summary of data, including monitoring data, that is accumulated
throughout the reporting year;

(5) Annual expenditures and budget for year following each annual report;

(6) A summary describing the number and nature of enforcement actions,
inspections, and public education programs;

(7) Identification of water quality improvements or degradation;

(d) Storm water discharges. The initial permits for discharges composed
entirely of storm water issued pursuant to Chapter 521 Section 9(e)(7) shall
require compliance with the conditions of the permit as expeditiously as
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 3 Additional conditions applicable
  to specified categories of Npdes permits. (Code of Maine Rules
                           (2021 Edition))

practicable, but in no event later than three years after the date of issuance
of the permit.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 4 Establishing permit conditions.
             (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 4. Establishing permit conditions. [see 40 CFR 122.43]

(a) In addition to conditions required in all permits (Sections 2 and 3), the
Department shall establish conditions, as required on a case-by-case basis,
to provide for and assure compliance with all applicable requirements of
CWA and regulations and State law. These shall include conditions under 38
MRSA, Chapter 3 (duration of permits), Section 7(a) (schedules of
compliance), and Section 8 (monitoring).

(b)

(1) An applicable requirement is a State statutory or regulatory requirement
which takes effect prior to final administrative disposition of a permit. An
applicable requirement is also any requirement which takes effect prior to
the modification or revocation and reissuance of a permit, to the extent
allowed in 38 MRSA, §414-A(5).

(2) New or reissued permits, and to the extent allowed under 38 MRSA,
§414-A(5) modified or revoked and reissued permits, shall incorporate each
of the applicable requirements referenced in Sections 5 and 6.

(c) Incorporation. All permit conditions shall be incorporated either
expressly or by reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to
the applicable regulations or requirements must be given in the permit.
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 5. Establishing limitations, standards, and other permit
conditions. [see 40 CFR 122.44]

In addition to the conditions established under Section 4(a), each NPDES
permit shall include conditions meeting the following requirements when
applicable.

(a) Technology-based effluent limitations and standards based on effluent
limitations and standards promulgated under section 301 of CWA or new
source performance standards promulgated under section 306 of CWA, on
case-by-case effluent limitations determined under section 402(a)(1) of
CWA, or on a combination of the two, in accordance with Chapter 523,
Section 2. For new sources or new dischargers, these technology based
limitations and standards are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 122.29(d)
(protection period).

(b)

(1) Other effluent limitations and standards under sections 301,302, 303,
307, 318 and 405 of CWA. If any applicable toxic effluent standard or
prohibition (including any schedule of compliance specified in such effluent
standard or prohibition) is promulgated under section 307(a) of CWA for a
toxic pollutant and that standard or prohibition is more stringent than any
limitation on the pollutant in the permit, the Department shall institute
proceedings under these regulations to modify or revoke and reissue the
permit to conform to the toxic effluent standard or prohibition. See also
Section 2(a).

(c) Reopener clause: for any discharger within a primary industry category
(see appendix A), requirements under section 307(a)(2) of the CWA as
follows:

(1) On or before June 30, 1981:

(i) If applicable standards or limitations have not yet been promulgated, the
permit shall include a condition stating that, if an applicable standard or
limitation is promulgated under sections 301(b)(2) (C) and (D), 304(b)(2),
and 307(a)(2) of the CWA and that effluent standard or limitation is more
stringent than any effluent limitation in the permit or controls a pollutant
not limited in the permit, the permit shall be promptly modified or revoked
and reissued to conform to that effluent standard or limitation.

(ii) If applicable standards or limitations have been promulgated or
approved, the permit shall include those standards or limitations. (if EPA
approves existing effluent limitations or decides not to develop new effluent
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

limitations, it will publish a notice in the Federal Register that the
limitations are ``approved'' for the purpose of this regulation.)

(2) On or after the statutory deadline set forth in section 301(b)(2) (A), (C),
and (E) of the CWA, any permit issued shall include effluent limitations to
meet the requirements of section 301(b)(2) (A),(C), (D), (E), (F) of the CWA,
whether or not applicable effluent limitations guidelines have been
promulgated or approved. These permits need not incorporate the clause
required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) The Department shall promptly modify or revoke and reissue any permit
containing the clause required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to
incorporate an applicable effluent standard or limitation under sections
301(b)(2) (C) and (D), 304(b)(2) and 307(a)(2) of the CWA which is
promulgated or approved after the permit is issued if that effluent standard
or limitation is more stringent than any effluent limitation in the permit, or
controls a pollutant not limited in the permit.

(d) Water quality standards and State requirements: any requirements in
addition to or more stringent than promulgated effluent limitations
guidelines or standards under sections 301, 304, 306, 307, 318 and 405 of
the CWA necessary to:

(1) Achieve water quality standards established under section 303 of the
CWA, including State narrative criteria for water quality.

(i) Limitations must control all pollutants or pollutant parameters (either
conventional, non conventional, or toxic pollutants) which the Department
determines are or may be discharged at a level which will cause, have the
reasonable potential to cause, or contribute to an excursion above any State
water quality standard, including State narrative criteria for water quality.

(ii) When determining whether a discharge causes, has the reasonable
potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion above a
narrative or numeric criteria within a State water quality standard, the
permitting authority shall use procedures which account for existing
controls on point and non point sources of pollution, the variability of the
pollutant or pollutant parameter in the effluent, the sensitivity of the species
to toxicity testing (when evaluating whole effluent toxicity), and where
appropriate, the dilution of the effluent in the receiving water.

(iii) When the permitting authority determines, using the procedures in
paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, that a discharge causes, has the
reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion
above the allowable ambient concentration of a State numeric criteria within
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

a State water quality standard for an individual pollutant, the permit must
contain effluent limits for that pollutant.

(iv) When the permitting authority determines, using the procedures in
paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, that a discharge causes, has the
reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion
above the numeric criterion for whole effluent toxicity, the permit must
contain effluent limits for whole effluent toxicity.

(v) Except as provided in this subparagraph, when the permitting authority
determines, using the procedures in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section,
toxicity testing data, or other information, that a discharge causes, has the
reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an in-stream excursion
above a narrative criterion within an applicable State water quality standard,
the permit must contain effluent limits for whole effluent toxicity. Limits on
whole effluent toxicity are not necessary where the permitting authority
demonstrates in the fact sheet of the NPDES permit, using the procedures in
paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, that chemical- specific limits for the
effluent are sufficient to attain and maintain applicable numeric and
narrative State water quality standards.

(vi) Where a State has not established a water quality criterion for a specific
chemical pollutant that is present in an effluent at a concentration that
causes, has the reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an excursion
above a narrative criterion within an applicable State water quality standard,
the permitting authority must establish effluent limits using one or more of
the following options:

(A) Establish effluent limits using a calculated numeric water quality
criterion for the pollutant which the permitting authority demonstrates will
attain and maintain applicable narrative water quality criteria and will fully
protect the designated use. Such a criterion maybe derived using a proposed
State criterion, or an explicit State policy or regulation interpreting its
narrative water quality criterion, supplemented with other relevant
information which may include: EPA's Water Quality Standards Handbook,
October 1983, risk assessment data, exposure data, information about the
pollutant from the Food and Drug Administration, and current EPA criteria
documents; or

(B) Establish effluent limits on a case-by-case basis, using EPA's Water
quality criteria, published under section 304(a) of the CWA, supplemented
where necessary by other relevant information; or

(C) Establish effluent limitations on an indicator parameter for the pollutant
of concern, provided:
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(1) The permit identifies which pollutants are intended to be controlled by
the use of the effluent limitation;

(2) The fact sheet required by Chapter 522 Section 7 sets forth the basis for
the limit, including a finding that compliance with the effluent limit on the
indicator parameter will result in controls on the pollutant of concern which
are sufficient to attain and maintain applicable water quality standards;

(3) The permit requires all effluent and ambient monitoring necessary to
show that during the term of the permit the limit on the indicator parameter
continues to attain and maintain applicable water quality standards; and

(4) The permit contains a reopener clause allowing the permitting authority
to modify or revoke and reissue the permit if the limits on the indicator
parameter no longer attain and maintain applicable water quality standards.

(vii) When developing water quality-based effluent limits under this
paragraph the permitting authority shall ensure that:

(A) The level of water quality to be achieved by limits on point sources
established under this paragraph is derived from, and complies with all
applicable water quality standards; and

(B) Effluent limits developed to protect a narrative water quality criterion, a
numeric water quality criterion, or both, are consistent with the
assumptions and requirements of any available wasteload allocation for the
discharge prepared by the State and approved by EPA pursuant to 40 CFR
130.7.

(2) Attain or maintain a specified water quality through water quality related
effluent limits established under section 302 of CWA;

(3) [reserved];

(4) Conform to applicable water quality requirements under section
401(a)(2) of CWA when the discharge affects a State other than the
certifying State;

(5) Incorporate any more stringent limitations, treatment standards, or
schedule of compliance requirements established under Federal or State law
or regulations in accordance with section 301(b)(1)(C) of CWA;

(6) Ensure consistency with the requirements of a Water Quality
Management plan approved by EPA under section 208(b) of CWA;

(7) [reserved];
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(8) Incorporate alternative effluent limitations or standards where
warranted by ``fundamentally different factors,'' under Chapter 524.

(e) Technology-based controls for toxic pollutants. Limitations established
under paragraphs (a), (b), or (d) of this section, to control pollutants
meeting the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Limitations will
be established in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. An
explanation of the development of these limitations shall be included in the
fact sheet under Chapter 522 Section 7(b)(1)(i).

(1) Limitations must control all toxic pollutants which the Department
determines (based on information reported in a permit application under
Chapter 521 or in a notification under Section 3(a)(1) or on other
information) are or may be discharged at a level greater than the level which
can be achieved by the technology-based treatment requirements
appropriate to the permittee under Chapter 524; or

(2) The requirement that the limitations control the pollutants meeting the
criteria of paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be satisfied by:

(i) Limitations on those pollutants; or

(ii) Limitations on other pollutants which, in the judgment of the
Department, will provide treatment of the pollutants under paragraph (e)(1)
of this section to the levels required by Chapter 524.

(f) Notification level. A ``notification level'' which exceeds the notification
level of Section 3(a)(1)(i), (ii) or (iii), upon a petition from the permittee or
on the Department's initiative. This new notification level may not exceed
the level which can be achieved by the technology-based treatment
requirements appropriate to the permittee under Chapter 524 Section
2(II)(c).

(g) Twenty-four hour reporting. Pollutants for which the permittee must
report violations of maximum daily discharge limitations under Section
2(1)(6)(ii)(C) (24-hour reporting) shall be listed in the permit. This list shall
include any toxic pollutant or hazardous substance, or any pollutant
specifically identified as the method to control a toxic pollutant or hazardous
substance.

(h) Durations for permits, as set forth in 38 MRSA, Sections 414(2) and 414-
A(1-B).

(i) Monitoring requirements. In addition to Section 8, the following
monitoring requirements:
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(1) To assure compliance with permit limitations, requirements to monitor:

(i) The mass (or other measurement specified in the permit) for each
pollutant limited in the permit;

(ii) The volume of effluent discharged from each outfall;

(iii) Other measurements as appropriate including pollutants in internal
waste streams under Section 6(i); pollutants in intake water for net
limitations under Section 6(f); frequency, rate of discharge, etc., for non
continuous discharges under Section 6(e); pollutants subject to notification
requirements under Section 3(a)..

(iv) According to test procedures approved under 40 CFR part 136 for the
analyses of pollutants having approved methods under that part, and
according to a test procedure specified in the permit for pollutants with no
approved methods.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(4) and (i)(5) of this section,
requirements to report monitoring results shall be established on a case-by-
case basis with a frequency dependent on the nature and effect of the
discharge, but in no case less than once a year.

(3) Requirements to report monitoring results for storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity which are subject to an effluent limitation
guideline shall be established on a case-by-case basis with a frequency
dependent on the nature and effect of the discharge, but in no case less than
once a year.

(4) Requirements to report monitoring results for storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity (other than those addressed in paragraph
(i)(3) of this section) shall be established on a case-by-case basis with a
frequency dependent on the nature and effect of the discharge. At a
minimum, a permit for such a discharge must require:

(i) The discharger to conduct an annual inspection of the facility site to
identify areas contributing to a storm water discharge associated with
industrial activity and evaluate whether measures to reduce pollutant
loadings identified in a storm water pollution prevention plan are adequate
and properly implemented in accordance with the terms of the permit or
whether additional control measures are needed;

(ii) The discharger to maintain for a period of three years a record
summarizing the results of the inspection and a certification that the facility
is in compliance with the plan and the permit, and identifying any incidents
of non-compliance;
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(iii) Such report and certification be signed in accordance with Chapter 521
Section 5; and

(iv) Permits for storm water discharges associated with industrial activity
from inactive mining operations may, where annual inspections are
impracticable, require certification once every three years by a Registered
Professional Engineer that the facility is in compliance with the permit, or
alternative requirements.

(5) Permits which do not require the submittal of monitoring result reports
at least annually shall require that the permittee report all instances of
noncompliance not reported under Sections 2(l) (1), (4), (5) and (6) at least
annually.

(j) Pretreatment program for POTWs. Requirements for POTWs to:

(1) Identify, in terms of character and volume of pollutants, any significant
indirect dischargers into the POTW subject to pretreatment standards under
section 307(b) of CWA and Chapter 528.

(2) Submit a local program when required by and in accordance with
Chapter 528 to assure compliance with pretreatment standards to the extent
applicable under CWA section 307(b). The local program shall be
incorporated into the permit as described in Chapter 528. The program shall
require all indirect dischargers to the POTW to comply with the reporting
requirements of Chapter 528.

(k) Best management practices to control or abate the discharge of
pollutants when:

(1) Authorized under section 304(e) of CWA for the control of toxic
pollutants and hazardous substances from ancillary industrial activities;

(2) Numeric effluent limitations are infeasible, or

(3) The practices are reasonably necessary to achieve effluent limitations
and standards or to carry out the purposes and intent of CWA and State law.

(l) Reissued permits.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (l)(2) of this section when a permit is
renewed or reissued, interim effluent limitations, standards or conditions
must be at least as stringent as the final effluent limitations, standards, or
conditions in the previous permit (unless the circumstances on which the
previous permit was based have materially and substantially changed since
the time the permit was issued and would constitute cause for permit
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

modification or revocation and reissuance under 38 MRSA, Sections 414-
A(5) and 341-D.

(2) In the case of effluent limitations established on the basis of Section
402(a)(1)(B) of the CWA, a permit may not be renewed, reissued, or
modified on the basis of effluent guidelines promulgated under section
304(b) of the CWA subsequent to the original issuance of such permit, to
contain effluent limitations which are less stringent than the comparable
effluent limitations in the previous permit.

(i) Exceptions--A permit with respect to which paragraph (l)(2) of this
section applies may be renewed, reissued, or modified to contain a less
stringent effluent limitation applicable to a pollutant, if--

(A) Material and substantial alterations or additions to the permitted facility
occurred after permit issuance which justify the application of a less
stringent effluent limitation;

(B)

(1) Information is available which was not available at the time of permit
issuance (other than revised regulations, guidance, or test methods) and
which would have justified the application of a less stringent effluent
limitation at the time of permit issuance; or

(2) The Administrator determines that technical mistakes or mistaken
interpretations of law were made in issuing the permit under section
402(a)(1)(b) of the CWA;

(C) A less stringent effluent limitation is necessary because of events over
which the permittee has no control and for which there is no reasonably
available remedy;

(D) The permittee has received a permit modification under section 301(c),
301(g), 301(h), 301(i), 301(k), 301(n), or 316(a) of the CWA; or

(E) The permittee has installed the treatment facilities required to meet the
effluent limitations in the previous permit and has properly operated and
maintained the facilities but has nevertheless been unable to achieve the
previous effluent limitations, in which case the limitations in the reviewed,
reissued, or modified permit may reflect the level of pollutant control
actually achieved (but shall not be less stringent than required by effluent
guidelines in effect at the time of permit renewal, reissuance, or
modification).
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 5 Establishing limitations,
standards, and other permit conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.44] (Code
                 of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

(ii) Limitations. In no event may a permit with respect to which paragraph
(l)(2) of this section applies be renewed, reissued, or modified to contain an
effluent limitation which is less stringent than required by effluent
guidelines in effect at the time the permit is renewed, reissued, or modified.
In no event may such a permit to discharge into waters be renewed, issued,
or modified to contain a less stringent effluent limitation if the
implementation of such limitation would result in a violation of a water
quality standard under section 303 of the CWA applicable to such waters.

(m) Privately owned treatment works. For a privately owned treatment
works, any conditions expressly applicable to any user, as a limited co-
permittee, that may be necessary in the permit issued to the treatment
works to ensure compliance with applicable requirements under this
Chapter. Alternatively, the Department may issue separate permits to the
treatment works and to its users, or may require a separate permit
application from any user. The Department's decision to issue a permit with
no conditions applicable to any user, to impose conditions on one or more
users, to issue separate permits, or to require separate applications, and the
basis for that decision, shall be stated in the fact sheet for the draft permit
for the treatment works.

(n) Grants. Any conditions imposed in grants made by the Administrator to
POTWs under sections 201 and 204 of CWA which are reasonably necessary
for the achievement of effluent limitations under section 301 of CWA.

(o) [reserved]

(p) Coast Guard. When a permit is issued to a facility that may operate at
certain times as a means of transportation over water, a condition that the
discharge shall comply with any applicable regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, that
establish specifications for safe transportation, handling, carriage, and
storage of pollutants.

(q) Navigation. Any conditions that the Secretary of the Army considers
necessary to ensure that navigation and anchorage will not be substantially
impaired, in accordance with 40 CFR 124.58.
        06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 6 Calculating Npdes permit
       conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.45] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                                Edition))

Section 6. Calculating NPDES permit conditions. [see 40 CFR
122.45]

(a) Outfalls and discharge points. All permit effluent limitations, standards
and prohibitions shall be established for each outfall or discharge point of
the permitted facility, except as otherwise provided under Section 5(k)
(BMPs where limitations are infeasible) and paragraph (i) of this section
(limitations on internal waste streams).

(b) Production-based limitations.

(1) In the case of POTWs, permit effluent limitations, standards, or
prohibitions shall be calculated based on design flow.

(2)

(i) Except in the case of POTWs or as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this
section, calculation of any permit limitations, standards, or prohibitions
which are based on production (or other measure of operation) shall be
based not upon the designed production capacity but rather upon a
reasonable measure of actual production of the facility. For new sources or
new dischargers, actual production shall be estimated using projected
production. The time period of the measure of production shall correspond
to the time period of the calculated permit limitations; for example, monthly
production shall be used to calculate average monthly discharge limitations.

(ii)

(A)

(1) The Department may include a condition establishing alternate permit
limitations, standards, or prohibitions based upon anticipated increased
(not to exceed maximum production capability) or decreased production
levels.

(2) For the automotive manufacturing industry only, the Regional
Administrator shall, and the Department may establish a condition under
paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(1) of this section if the applicant satisfactorily
demonstrates to the Director at the time the application is submitted that its
actual production, as indicated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, is
substantially below maximum production capability and that there is a
reasonable potential for an increase above actual production during the
duration of the permit.

(B) If the Department establishes permit conditions under paragraph
(b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section:
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 6 Calculating Npdes permit
    conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.45] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))

(1) The permit shall require the permittee to notify the Department at least
two business days prior to a month in which the permittee expects to
operate at a level higher than the lowest production level identified in the
permit.

The notice shall specify the anticipated level and the period during which the
permittee expects to operate at the alternate level. If the notice covers more
than one month, the notice shall specify the reasons for the anticipated
production level increase. New notice of discharge at alternate levels is
required to cover a period or production level not covered by prior notice or,
if during two consecutive months otherwise covered by a notice, the
production level at the permitted facility does not in fact meet the higher
level designated in the notice.

(2) The permittee shall comply with the limitations, standards, or
prohibitions that correspond to the lowest level of production specified in
the permit, unless the permittee has notified the Department under
paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(1) of this section, in which case the permittee shall
comply with the lower of the actual level of production during each month or
the level specified in the notice.

(3) The permittee shall submit with the DMR the level of production that
actually occurred during each month and the limitations, standards, or
prohibitions applicable to that level of production.

(c) Metals. All permit effluent limitations, standards, or prohibitions for a
metal shall be expressed in terms of ``total recoverable metal'' as defined in
40 CFR part 136 unless:

(1) An applicable effluent standard or limitation has been promulgated
under the CWA and specifies the limitation for the metal in the dissolved or
valent or total form; or

(2) In establishing permit limitations on a case-by-case basis under Chapter
524 Section 2(II), it is necessary to express the limitation on the metal in the
dissolved or valent or total form to carry out the provisions of the CWA; or

(3) All approved analytical methods for the metal inherently measure only
its dissolved form (e.g., hexavalent chromium).

(d) Continuous discharges. For continuous discharges all permit effluent
limitations, standards, and prohibitions, including those necessary to
achieve water quality standards, shall unless impracticable be stated as:

(1) Maximum daily and average monthly discharge limitations for all
dischargers other than publicly owned treatment works; and
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 6 Calculating Npdes permit
    conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.45] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))

(2) Average weekly and average monthly discharge limitations for POTWs.

(e) Non-continuous discharges. Discharges which are not continuous, as
defined Chapter 520, shall be particularly described and limited, considering
the following factors, as appropriate:

(1) Frequency (for example, a batch discharge shall not occur more than
once every 3 weeks);

(2) Total mass (for example, not to exceed 100 kilograms of zinc and 200
kilograms of chromium per batch discharge);

(3) Maximum rate of discharge of pollutants during the discharge (for
example, not to exceed 2 kilograms of zinc per minute); and

(4) Prohibition or limitation of specified pollutants by mass, concentration,
or other appropriate measure (for example, shall not contain at any time
more than 0.1 mg/1 zinc or more than 250 grams (1/4 kilogram) of zinc in
any discharge).

(f) Mass limitations.

(1) All pollutants limited in permits shall have limitations, standards or
prohibitions expressed in terms of mass except:

(i) For pH, temperature, radiation, or other pollutants which cannot
appropriately be expressed by mass;

(ii) When applicable standards and limitations are expressed in terms of
other units of measurement; or

(iii) If in establishing permit limitations on a case-by-case basis under
Chapter 524 Section 2(II), limitations expressed in terms of mass are
infeasible because the mass of the pollutant discharged cannot be related to
a measure of operation (for example, discharges of TSS from certain mining
operations), and permit conditions ensure that dilution will not be used as a
substitute for treatment.

(2) Pollutants limited in terms of mass additionally may be limited terms of
other units of measurement, and the permit shall require the permittee to
comply with both limitations.

(g) Pollutants in intake water
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 6 Calculating Npdes permit
    conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.45] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))

(1) Upon request of the discharger, technology-based effluent limitations or
standards shall be adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the discharger's
intake water if:

(i) The applicable effluent limitations and standards contained in Chapter
525 specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net basis; or

(ii) The discharger demonstrates that the control system it proposes or uses
to meet applicable technology-based limitations and standards would, if
properly installed and operated, meet the limitations and standards in the
absence of pollutants in the intake waters.

(2) Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
or total suspended solids (TSS) should not be granted unless the permittee
demonstrates that the constituents of the generic measure in the effluent are
substantially similar to the constituents of the generic measure in the intake
water or unless appropriate additional limits are placed on process water
pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.

(3) Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable limitation or standard, up to a maximum value equal to the
influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with permit limits.

(4) Credit shall be granted only if the discharger demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water into which the discharge
is made. The Department may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.

(5) This section does not apply to the discharge of raw water clarifier sludge
generated from the treatment of intake water.

(h) Internal waste streams.

(1) When permit effluent limitations or standards imposed at the point of
discharge are impractical or infeasible, effluent limitations or standards for
discharges of pollutants may be imposed on internal waste streams before
mixing with other waste streams or cooling water streams. In those
instances, the monitoring required by Section 2(i) shall also be applied to
the internal waste streams.

(2) Limits on internal waste streams will be imposed only when the fact
sheet under Chapter 522 sets forth the exceptional circumstances which
make such limitations necessary, such as when the final discharge point is
inaccessible (for example, under 10 meters of water), the wastes at the point
of discharge are so diluted as to make monitoring impracticable, or the
     06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 6 Calculating Npdes permit
    conditions. [see 40 Cfr 122.45] (Code of Maine Rules (2021
                             Edition))

interferences among pollutants at the point of discharge would make
detection or analysis impracticable.

(i) Disposal of pollutants into wells, into POTWs or by land application.
Permit limitations and standards shall be calculated as provided in Section
9.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 7 Schedules of compliance. [see 40
        Cfr 122.47] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))


Section 7. Schedules of compliance. [see 40 CFR 122.47]

(a) General. The permit may, when appropriate, specify a schedule of
compliance leading to compliance with CWA and regulations.

(1) Time for compliance. Any schedules of compliance under this section
shall require compliance as soon as possible, but not later than the
applicable statutory deadline under the CWA.

(2) The first NPDES permit issued to a new source or a new discharger shall
contain a schedule of compliance only when necessary to allow a reasonable
opportunity to attain compliance with requirements issued or revised after
commencement of construction but less than three years before
commencement of the relevant discharge. For recommencing dischargers, a
schedule of compliance shall be available only when necessary to allow a
reasonable opportunity to attain compliance with requirements issued or
revised less than three years before recommencement of discharge.

(3) Interim dates. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section,
if a permit establishes a schedule of compliance which exceeds 1 year from
the date of permit issuance, the schedule shall set forth interim
requirements and the dates for their achievement.

(i) The time between interim dates shall not exceed 1 year, except that in the
case of a schedule for compliance with standards for sewage sludge use and
disposal, the time between interim dates shall not exceed six months.

(ii) If the time necessary for completion of any interim requirement (such as
the construction of a control facility) is more than 1 year and is not readily
divisible into stages for completion, the permit shall specify interim dates for
the submission of reports of progress toward completion of the interim
requirements and indicate a projected completion date.

Note: Examples of interim requirements include: (a) Submit a complete
Step 1 construction grant (for POTWs); (b) let a contract for construction of
required facilities; (c) commence construction of required facilities; (d)
complete construction of required facilities.

(4) Reporting. The permit shall be written to require that no later than 14
days following each interim date and the final date of compliance, the
permittee shall notify the Department in writing of its compliance or
noncompliance with the interim or final requirements, or submit progress
reports if paragraph (a)(3)(ii) is applicable.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 8 Requirements for recording and
reporting of monitoring. [see 40 Cfr 122.48] (Code of Maine Rules
                         (2021 Edition))

Section 8. Requirements for recording and reporting of
monitoring. [see 40 CFR 122.48]

All permits shall specify:

(a) Requirements concerning the proper use, maintenance, and installation,
when appropriate, of monitoring equipment or methods(including biological
monitoring methods when appropriate);

(b) Required monitoring including type, intervals, and frequency sufficient
to yield data which are representative of the monitored activity including,
when appropriate, continuous monitoring;

(c) Applicable reporting requirements based upon the impact of the
regulated activity and as specified in Section 5. Reporting shall be no less
frequent than specified in the above regulation.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 9 Disposal of pollutants into wells,
into publicly owned treatment works or by land application. [see
      40 Cfr 122.50] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 9. Disposal of pollutants into wells, into publicly owned
treatment works or by land application. [see 40 CFR 122.50]

(a) When part of a discharger's process wastewater is not being discharged
into waters of the State or contiguous zone because it is disposed into a well,
into a POTW, or by land application thereby reducing the flow or level of
pollutants being discharged into waters of the State, applicable effluent
standards and limitations for the discharge in an NPDES permit shall be
adjusted to reflect the reduce draw waste resulting from such disposal.
Effluent limitations and standards in the permit shall be calculated by one of
the following methods:

(1) If none of the waste from a particular process is discharged into waters of
the State, and effluent limitations guidelines provide separate allocation for
wastes from that process, all allocations for the process shall be eliminated
from calculation of permit effluent limitations or standards.

(2) In all cases other than those described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section,
effluent limitations shall be adjusted by multiplying the effluent limitation
derived by applying effluent limitation guidelines to the total waste stream
by the amount of wastewater flow to be treated and discharged into waters
of the State, and dividing the result by the total wastewater flow. Effluent
limitations and standards so calculated may be further adjusted under
Chapter 524 to make them more or less stringent if discharges to wells,
publicly owned treatment works, or by land application change the character
or treatability of the pollutants being discharged to receiving waters. This
method may be algebraically expressed as:

P= (E x N) ÷ T

where P is the permit effluent limitation, E is the limitation derived by
applying effluent guidelines to the total waste stream, N is the wastewater
flow to be treated and discharged to waters of the State, and T is the total
wastewater flow.

(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the extent that
promulgated effluent limitations guidelines:

(1) Control concentrations of pollutants discharged but not mass; or

(2) Specify a different specific technique for adjusting effluent limitations to
account for well injection, land application, or disposal into POTWs.

(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not alter a discharger's obligation to
meet any more stringent requirements established under Sections 2, 3, 4,
and 5.
06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 9 Disposal of pollutants into wells,
into publicly owned treatment works or by land application. [see
      40 Cfr 122.50] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))
  06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 10 Conditions requested by the
 Corps of Engineers and other government agencies. [see 40 Cfr
          124.59] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))

Section 10. Conditions requested by the Corps of Engineers and
other government agencies. [see 40 CFR 124.59]

(a) If during the comment period for an NPDES draft permit, the District
Engineer advises the Department in writing that anchorage and navigation
of any of the waters of the State would be substantially impaired by the
granting of a permit, the permit shall be denied and the applicant so
notified. If the District Engineer advised the Department that imposing
specified conditions upon the permit is necessary to avoid any substantial
impairment of anchorage or navigation, then the Department shall include
the specified conditions in the permit. Review or appeal of denial of a permit
or of conditions specified by the District Engineer shall be made through the
applicable procedures of the Corps of Engineers, and may not be made
through the procedures provided in 40 CFR part 124. If the conditions are
stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction or by applicable procedures of
the Corps of Engineers, those conditions shall be considered stayed in the
NPDES permit for the duration of that stay.

(b) If during the comment period the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the
National Marine Fisheries Service, or any other State or Federal agency with
jurisdiction over fish, wildlife, or public health advises the Department in
writing that the imposition of specified conditions upon the permit is
necessary to avoid substantial impairment of fish, shellfish, or wildlife
resources, the Department shall include the specified conditions in the
permit to the extent they are determined necessary to carry out the
provisions of 40 CFR 122.49 and of the CWA.

(c) In appropriate cases the Department may consult with one or more of the
agencies referred to in this section before issuing a draft permit and may
reflect their views in the fact sheet or the draft permit.

AUTHORITY: 38 MRSA §§ 341-D and 414-A

APA EFFECTIVE DATE: April 5, 1999

EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule became effective upon the approval of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency of related parts of the State's application
to administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program
of the Federal Clean Water Act, pursuant to 40 CFR part 123. This approval
was granted through a January 12, 2001 (the presumed effective date) letter
from Mindy S. Lubber of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency to Governor Angus S. King, Jr. The APA Office was notified of this
action through a memo, which included a copy of the Lubber letter, from
Dennis Merrill of the Department of Environmental Protection dated
January 23, 2001.
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § 10 Conditions requested by the
Corps of Engineers and other government agencies. [see 40 Cfr
         124.59] (Code of Maine Rules (2021 Edition))
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § Appendix A (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Appendix A. NPDES Primary Industry Categories

Any permit issued after June 30, 1981 to dischargers in the following
categories shall include effluent limitations and a compliance schedule to
meet the requirements of section 301(b)(2)(A), (C), (D), (E)and (F) of CWA,
whether or not applicable effluent limitations guidelines have been
promulgated. See 40 CFR 122.44 and 122.46.

Industry Category

Adhesives and sealants

Aluminum forming

Auto and other laundries

Battery manufacturing

Coal mining

Coil coating

Copper forming

Electrical and electronic components

Electroplating

Explosives manufacturing

Foundries

Gum and wood chemicals

Inorganic chemicals manufacturing

Iron and steel manufacturing

Leather tanning and finishing

Mechanical products manufacturing

Nonferrous metals manufacturing

Ore mining

Organic chemicals manufacturing
 06 096 Me. Code R. Ch. 523 § Appendix A (Code of Maine Rules
                        (2021 Edition))


Paint and ink formulation

Pesticides

Petroleum refining

Pharmaceutical preparations

Photographic equipment and supplies

Plastics processing

Plastic and synthetic materials manufacturing

Porcelain enameling

Printing and publishing

Pulp and paper mills

Rubber processing

Soap and detergent manufacturing

Steam electric power plants

Textile mills

Timber products processing
