Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-101 Definitions (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-101. Definitions

In addition to the definitions established in A.R.S. § 49-301, the following
terms apply to this Chapter:

1. "Agricultural use pesticide" means any pesticide intended for use directly
on a crop. An agricultural use pesticide does not include animal pesticide
eartags or pesticides intended solely for use within and around a confined
structure.

2. "Crop" means any plant, animal, plant product, or animal product
produced for commercial or research purposes.

3. "Data generator" means any person providing information to support the
registration in this state of an agricultural use pesticide in accordance with
A.R.S. § 49-302(A).

4. "EPA" means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.

5. "Formulator" means any person who purchases an EPA- registered
pesticide to reformulate or repackage and register the pesticide for sale in
this state.

6. "Label" means the written, printed, or graphic matter on, or attached to,
the pesticide container, and the outside container or wrapper of the retail
package, if any, of the pesticide.

7. "Pest" means any weed, insect, vertebrate pest, nematode, fungus, virus,
bacteria, or other pathogenic organism, or any other form of terrestrial or
aquatic plant or animal life, except virus, bacteria, or other microorganism
on or in living humans or other living animals, that is declared a pest by the
Director of the Arizona Department of Agriculture.

8. "Soil-applied" means an agricultural use pesticide intended for
application to or injection into the soil by ground-based application
equipment or chemigation, or the label of the pesticide requires or
recommends that the application is followed within 72 hours by flood or
furrow irrigation.

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Amended effective
September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 11 A.A.R.
3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-102 Agricultural Use Pesticide Submittal
  Requirements (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-102. Agricultural Use Pesticide Submittal Requirements

A. Pre-registration data requirements for new agricultural use pesticides.

1. Before registering a new agricultural use pesticide under A.R.S. § 3-351, an
applicant shall submit information that enables the Department to
determine whether the new agricultural use pesticide has the potential to
pollute groundwater in the state. This information shall include:

a. A transmittal letter;

b. The following information on a Data Summary form obtained from the
Department:

i. The company name and address;

ii. The name and contact information of the person making the submittal;

iii. The date of filing;

iv. The product information, including the brand name, EPA registration
number, formulation category, and intended use; and

v. The active ingredient technical name, Chemical Abstract Service (CAS)
number, common name, molecular weight, and bulk density; and

c. The following information for each active ingredient:

i. Water solubility;

ii. Vapor pressure;

iii. Octanol-water partition coefficient;

iv. Soil adsorption coefficient;

v. Henry's law constant;

vi. Dissipation studies, including hydrolysis, photolysis, aerobic and
anaerobic soil metabolism, and field dissipation, performed under
conditions in Arizona, or similar environmental and use conditions, if that
information exists in studies and conclusions from other states or the United
States government. The studies shall, at a minimum, meet EPA testing
methods and reporting guidelines.

2. The applicant may submit the following alternate information:
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-102 Agricultural Use Pesticide Submittal
  Requirements (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


a. Upon Director approval, alternate information to satisfy one or more of
the data requirements in subsection (A)(1)(c). The alternate information
shall accurately describe the relevant data required for each new agricultural
use pesticide active ingredient under conditions in Arizona or under similar
environmental and use conditions;

b. California registration.

i. Evidence that the California Department of Food and Agriculture
registered the agricultural use pesticide following the data requirements
under California Food and Agricultural Code Section 13143; and

ii. Documentation showing that required studies were performed under
environmental and use conditions that are similar to those conditions in
Arizona.

3. Waiver. The Director may waive some or all of the information required in
subsection (A)(1)(c) if the applicant demonstrates that:

a. Due to the nature of the active ingredient, it is not scientifically possible to
obtain meaningful results for the specified tests; or

b. Due to the application or cultural practices for the active ingredient, it is
not necessary to obtain some or all of the information.

B. Pre-registration data submittal completeness.

1. The Department shall notify the Arizona Department of Agriculture when
the applicant submits all the information on the active ingredient required
under subsection (A) and the Director has concluded that the information is
sufficient to determine whether the active ingredient has the potential to
pollute groundwater of the state.

2. If the Director cannot determine that the data submittal requirements for
agricultural use registration in Arizona have been met, the person may apply
for a conditional registration under A.R.S. § 49-310.

C. Information submittal for the product chemistry and environmental fate
assessment evaluation. After satisfying the data submittal required in
subsection (A) and registering the pesticide with the Arizona Department of
Agriculture:

1. A registrant may prepare an assessment of the product chemistry and
environmental fate parameters for the Department to evaluate the potential
for a new agricultural use pesticide to pollute groundwater. The assessment
shall include:
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-102 Agricultural Use Pesticide Submittal
  Requirements (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


a. Patterns for using the agricultural use pesticide in Arizona;

b. Cultural practices for those areas within Arizona where the agricultural
use pesticide is intended for use;

c. Geological and meteorological conditions of the regions within Arizona
where the agricultural use pesticide is intended for use; and

d. Any other information the Director determines is necessary to support the
assessment.

2. A registrant may submit any of the following information if it is directly
relevant to the agricultural use pesticide active ingredient evaluation:

a. Relevant scientific data and summaries, including those submitted to or
required by federal and state agencies that further support the studies
required in R18-6-102(A)(1)(c);

b. Relevant evaluations and conclusions by federal and state agencies,
including evaluations of the studies required in R18-6-102(A)(1)(c);

c. Documentation that addresses whether the studies required in R18-6-
102(A)(1)(c) were performed under environmental and use conditions that
are similar to those in Arizona.

D. If new information is available about the active ingredient of an
agricultural use pesticide currently registered by the Arizona Department of
Agriculture, the Director may require the registrant to submit the new
information to the Director to assess whether the information is relevant to
the Director's determination under subsection (B)(1).

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Amended effective
September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; new Section made by
final rulemaking at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-
3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-103 Agricultural Use Active Ingredient
    Evaluation (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-103. Agricultural Use Active Ingredient Evaluation

For each new or existing agricultural use pesticide registered in Arizona, the
Director shall determine whether each active ingredient has the potential to
pollute groundwater in the state. The Director shall either:

1. Base the evaluation on the information submitted in accordance with R18-
6-102(A) to determine whether the active ingredient fails any of the
following mobility factors and one or more of the following persistence
factors; or

SPECIFIC NUMERIC VALUES

MOBILITY FACTORS PERSISTENCE FACTORS

Water solubility No greater than 30 ppm

Soil adsorption

coefficient Kd no less than 5

Hydrolysis Half-life no greater than 25 weeks

Aerobic soil

metabolism Half-life no greater than 3 weeks

Anaerobic soil

metabolism Half-life no greater than 3 weeks

Field dissipation Half-life no greater than 3 weeks

2. Base the evaluation on the product chemistry and environmental fate
assessment submitted in accordance with R18-6-102(C).

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Amended by final rulemaking
at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-104 Monitoring and Testing (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-104. Monitoring and Testing

A. The Director shall conduct soil and groundwater monitoring for active
ingredients contained in agricultural use pesticides placed upon the
Groundwater Protection List as required under A.R.S. § 49-307(A). The
Department may conduct soil and groundwater monitoring for other
specified ingredients or degradation products based on active ingredient test
results or other information about the pesticide.

B. The Director shall use the results of soil and groundwater monitoring and
testing after considering the factors in A.R.S. § § 49-307(C) to make the
determination in 49-308(A) and 49-309(A), (B), or (D).

C. If the Director determines that an agricultural use pesticide meets the
criteria or conditions specified in A.R.S. § 49-308(A), the Director shall
notify the registrant in writing.

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Amended by final rulemaking
at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-105 Repealed (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-105. Repealed

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Section repealed by final
rulemaking at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-106 Informational Requirements for a
    Pesticide Formulator (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

§ R18-6-106. Informational Requirements for a Pesticide
Formulator

A. A pesticide formulator may rely upon the data generated by another
person to meet the requirements in R18-6-102. The pesticide formulator
shall submit, to the Department, the name of every person who is a source of
each agricultural use pesticide active ingredient.

B. The Department shall request that each person identified under
subsection (A) verify within 30 days, in writing, whether the person provides
the pesticide formulator with the active ingredient in question.

C. If a person advises the Department that the person is not a source for the
active ingredient used by the pesticide formulator or if the person does not
respond under subsection (B), the Department shall notify the pesticide
formulator of that fact and shall require the pesticide formulator to provide
either of the following documents attesting to a business relationship
involving the active ingredient in question:

1. A signed contract, or

2. Any other documentation of a business arrangement, endorsed by each
party.

D. If the pesticide formulator does not produce acceptable documentation of
a business relationship under subsection (C) or if a person identified by the
pesticide formulator is not a data generator for the active ingredient in
question, the Director shall find that a groundwater protection data gap
exists for the agricultural use pesticide, and the formulator is subject to the
provisions in A.R.S. § 49-304.

E. Any pesticide formulator who relies on data submitted by a person
identified as a source under subsection (A) shall notify the Department of
any change in the source within 60 days of a similar notification to the EPA.

(Adopted effective September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3). )
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-201 Repealed (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-201. Repealed

(Adopted effective August 27, 1987 (Supp. 87-3). Repealed effective
September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). )
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-301 Groundwater Protection List
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-301. Groundwater Protection List

A. Groundwater Protection List. The Director shall, using an evaluation
process specified in R18-6-103 and the addition and deletion criteria
specified in subsections (B) and (C), annually develop and maintain a list of
agricultural use pesticides that have the potential to pollute groundwater.

1. The Department shall publish the proposed Groundwater Protection List
in the Arizona Administrative Register and accept written comments from
the public.

2. The written public comment period begins on the publication date of the
list and extends for 30 calendar days.

3. The Department shall publish the final Groundwater Protection List each
year in the Arizona Administrative Register on or before July 1. The list is
effective on December 1 of the publication year.

B. Adding an agricultural use pesticide. The Director shall add an
agricultural use pesticide to the Groundwater Protection List for any of the
following reasons:

1. An agricultural use pesticide active ingredient is identified under R18-6-
103 as having the potential to pollute groundwater;

2. An agricultural use pesticide active ingredient is detected in Arizona
consistent with the testing requirements of R18-6-104 and is found:

a. At or below the deepest of the following depths:

i. Eight feet below the soil surface, or

ii. Below the root zone of the crop where the active ingredient was found;

b. In the groundwater of this state;

3. An agricultural use pesticide degradation product or other specified
ingredient that poses a threat to public health has been found under the
conditions described in subsection (B)(2).

C. Deleting an agricultural use pesticide. The Director shall delete an
agricultural use pesticide from the Groundwater Protection List under any of
the following circumstances:

1. The results of monitoring and testing conducted by the Department, a
government agency, or other reliable source establish that the active
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-301 Groundwater Protection List
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


ingredient has not been detected in Arizona under the conditions described
in subsection (B)(2).

2. The Director no longer considers the agricultural use pesticide to have the
potential to pollute groundwater in Arizona based on:

a. A change in a specific numeric value established in R18-6-103(1),

b. A revision in the specific numeric values established by new research
studies or new procedures, or

c. The results of the evaluation under R18-6-103(2).

3. Agricultural use pesticide registration cancellation. The Arizona
Department of Agriculture no longer registers the agricultural use pesticide
under A.R.S. § 3-351(I).

D. Pesticide review. Any person may request that the Director add or delete
an agricultural use pesticide from the Groundwater Protection List by
submitting an explanation of the request to the Department with studies and
conclusions of support.

1. The Director shall notify the registrant in writing after receiving a request
to add or delete an agricultural use pesticide from the Groundwater
Protection List and again upon making the determination.

2. The Director shall consider whether the supporting documentation:

a. Is based upon procedures consistent with those described in R18-6-104
and A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 2, Article 6; and

b. Justifies the addition or deletion of the agricultural use pesticide from the
Groundwater Protection List.

3. Director determination.

a. If the Director determines that the agricultural use pesticide has the
potential to pollute groundwater, the Director shall add the pesticide to, or
retain the pesticide on, the Groundwater Protection List.

b. If the Director determines that the agricultural use pesticide does not
have the potential to pollute groundwater, the Director shall, if the pesticide
is on the Groundwater Protection List, delete it from the list.

E. Reevaluation of an agricultural use pesticide. A registrant may request
that the Director reevaluate whether an agricultural use pesticide placed on
the Groundwater Protection List before [effective date of this Section] that
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-301 Groundwater Protection List
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


has the potential to pollute groundwater in Arizona. The registrant shall
submit the written request before December 1, 2005 and include the
assessment and supporting documentation specified in R18-6-102(C).

1. The Director shall not accept a request to reevaluate an agricultural use
pesticide if:

a. An active ingredient has been detected in Arizona using the testing criteria
in R18-6-104 and is found under conditions described in subsection (B)(2);
or

b. An agricultural use pesticide degradation product or other specified
ingredient relating to the agricultural use pesticide has been detected in
Arizona consistent with the criteria in R18-6-104 and the agricultural use
pesticide degradation product or other specified ingredient poses a threat to
public health and has been found under the conditions described in
subsection (B)(2);

2. Director determination.

a. If the Director determines that the agricultural use pesticide has the
potential to pollute groundwater, the pesticide shall remain on the
Groundwater Protection List.

b. If the Director determines that the agricultural use pesticide does not
have the potential to pollute groundwater, the Director shall delete the
pesticide from the Groundwater Protection List.

(Adopted effective September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-302 Findings and Determinations
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-6-302. Findings and Determinations

A. If the Director discovers or becomes aware of the illegal sale or use of any
agricultural use pesticide on the Groundwater Protection List, the Director
shall report the sale or use to the appropriate regulatory agency and to the
Office of the Attorney General.

B. If the Director finds that an active ingredient, degradation product, or
other specified ingredient of an agricultural use pesticide has been detected
under the conditions specified in R18-6-104, the Director shall refer these
findings to the state or federal agency responsible for further investigation
and enforcement.

C. If the Director discovers a site that demonstrates pesticide contamination,
the Director shall determine whether remedial action is required under
A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 2, Article 5.

(Adopted effective May 10, 1988 (Supp. 88-2). Amended effective
September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 11 A.A.R.
3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-303 Requirements for an Agricultural
   Use Pesticide on the Groundwater Protection List (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-6-303. Requirements for an Agricultural Use Pesticide on
the Groundwater Protection List

A. Any person who causes another person to soil-apply an agricultural use
pesticide on the Groundwater Protection List shall implement Best
Management Practices to reduce or prevent the pollution of groundwater. In
implementing the Best Management Practices, the person shall consider the
following factors:

1. Application site characteristics, including soil texture, slope, organic
matter, and depth to groundwater to determine site susceptibility. The
person shall consider:

a. Selecting a pesticide based on the intended application site
characteristics;

b. Minimizing or avoiding the use of any pesticide with high leaching or high
runoff potential;

c. Incorporating erosion control practices to minimize runoff; and

d. Using an alternative pest control method, if practical.

2. Protection of water resources from potential contamination during
mixing, loading, or application. The person shall consider:

a. Applying the correct amount of pesticide according to the label and
employ methods that avoid overspray or drift;

b. Weather patterns, soil moisture, and crop needs before pesticide
application; and

c. Maintaining buffer zones, where applicable.

B. The Director shall annually obtain the following information from the
Arizona Department of Agriculture for each agricultural use pesticide on the
Groundwater Protection List that is soil-applied:

1. The pest condition that the agricultural use pesticide will control;

2. The name of the crop and number of acres to which the agricultural use
pesticide has been applied;

3. The location of use including the county, township, range, and section;

4. The name of the product used, including the EPA registration number;
and
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-6-303 Requirements for an Agricultural
   Use Pesticide on the Groundwater Protection List (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

5. The amount of agricultural use pesticide applied per acre.

(Adopted effective September 23, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 11 A.A.R. 3949, effective November 22, 2005 (Supp. 05-3). )
