         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-101. Definitions

In addition to the definitions prescribed in A.R.S. § § 49-1001 and 49-
1001.01, the following definitions apply in this Chapter:

"Aboveground release" means any release to the surface of the land or to
surface water. This includes, but is not limited to, releases from the
aboveground portion of an UST system and aboveground releases associated
with overfills and transfer operations as the regulated substance moves to or
from an UST system.

"Accidental release" means, with respect to Article 3 only, any sudden or
nonsudden release of petroleum arising from operating an UST system that
is neither expected nor intended by the UST system owner or operator, that
results in a need for one or more of the following:

Corrective action,

Compensation for bodily injury, or

Compensation for property damage.

"Airport hydrant fuel distribution system" or "airport hydrant system"
means a petroleum UST system which fuels aircraft and operates under high
pressure with large diameter piping that typically terminates into one or
more hydrants (fill stands). The airport hydrant system begins where fuel
enters one or more tanks from an external source such as a pipeline, barge,
rail car, or other motor fuel carrier.

"Ancillary equipment" means any device used to distribute, dispense, meter,
monitor, or control the flow of regulated substances to and from an UST
system.

"Annual" means, with respect to R18-12-240 through R18-12-245 only, a
calendar period of 12 consecutive months.

"Aviation fuel, " for the purpose of Article 4 only, has the definition at A.R.S.
§ 28-101.

"Belowground release" means any release to the subsurface of the land or to
groundwater. This includes, but is not limited to, releases from the
belowground portions of an underground storage tank system and
belowground releases associated with overfills and transfer operations as the
regulated substance moves to or from an underground storage tank.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Bodily injury" means injury to the body, sickness, or disease sustained by
any person, including death resulting from any of these at any time.

"CAP" means corrective action plan.

"Cathodic protection" means a technique to prevent corrosion of a metal
surface by making that surface the cathode of an electrochemical cell.

"Cathodic protection tester" means a person who can demonstrate an
understanding of the principles and measurements of all common types of
cathodic protection systems as applied to buried or submerged metal piping
and tank systems. At a minimum, such a person shall have education and
experience in soil receptivity, stray current, structure-to-soil potential, and
component electrical isolation measurements of buried metal piping and
tank systems.

"CERCLA" means the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act as defined in A.R.S. § 49-201.

"CFR" means the Code of Federal Regulations, with standard references in
this Chapter by Title and Part, so that " 40 CFR 280 " means Title 40 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, Part 280.

"Change-in-service" means changing the use of an UST system from the
storage of a regulated substance to the storage of a non-regulated substance.

"Chemical of concern" means any regulated substance detected in
contamination from the LUST site that is evaluated for potential impacts to
public health and the environment.

"Chief financial officer" means, with respect to local government owners and
operators, the individual with the overall authority and responsibility for the
collection, disbursement, and use of funds by the local government.

"Class A operator" means the individual who has primary responsibility to
operate and maintain the UST system in accordance with applicable
requirements established by this Chapter and Arizona Revised Statutes, title
49, chapter 6. The Class A operator typically manages resources and
personnel, such as establishing work assignments, to achieve and maintain
compliance with regulatory requirements.

"Class B operator" means the individual who has day-to-day responsibility
for implementing applicable regulatory requirements established by this
Chapter and Arizona Revised Statutes, title 49, chapter 6. The Class B
operator typically implements in-field aspects of operation, maintenance,
and associated recordkeeping for the UST system.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Class C operator" means the individual responsible for initially addressing
emergencies presented by a spill or release from an UST system. The Class C
operator typically controls or monitors the dispensing or sale of regulated
substances.

"Clean Water Act" has the definition at A.R.S. § 49-201.

"Compatible" means the ability of two or more substances to maintain their
respective physical and chemical properties upon contact with one another
under conditions likely to be encountered in the UST during the operational
life of the UST system.

"Conceptual site model" means a written and visual representation of the
complete current and potential exposure pathways, based on existing and
reasonably anticipated future use.

"Connected piping" means all underground piping including valves, elbows,
joints, flanges, and flexible connectors that are attached to a tank system
and through which regulated substances flow. For the purpose of
determining how much piping is connected to an individual UST system, the
piping that joins multiple tanks shall be divided equally between the tanks.

"Consultant" means a person who performs environmental services in an
advisory, investigative, or remedial capacity.

"Containment sump" means a liquid-tight container that protects the
environment by containing leaks and spills of regulated substances from
piping, dispensers, pumps and related components in the containment area.
Containment sumps may be single walled or secondarily contained and
located at the top of tank (tank top or submersible turbine pump sump),
underneath the dispenser (under-dispenser containment sump), or at other
points in the piping run (transition or intermediate sump).

"Contamination" means the analytically determined existence of a regulated
substance within environmental media outside the confines of an UST
system, which originated from the UST system.

"Contractor" means a person who is required to obtain and hold a valid
license from the Arizona Registrar of Contractors which permits bidding and
performance of removal, excavation, repair, or construction services
associated with an UST system.

"Controlling interest" means direct ownership of at least 50 percent of a
firm, through voting stock, or otherwise.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Corrective action services" means any service that is provided to fulfill the
statutory requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1005 and the rules made under § 49-
1005.

"Corrective action standard" means the concentration of the chemical of
concern in the medium of concern that is protective of public health and
welfare and the environment based on either pre-established non-site-
specific assumptions or site-specific data, including any applied
environmental use restriction.

"Corrosion expert" means a person who, by reason of thorough knowledge of
the physical sciences and the principles of engineering and mathematics
acquired by a professional education and related practical experience, is
qualified to engage in the practice of corrosion control on buried or
submerged metal piping systems and metal tanks. The person shall be
accredited or certified as being qualified by the National Association of
Corrosion Engineers or be a registered professional engineer who has
certification or licensing that includes education and experience in corrosion
control of buried or submerged metal piping systems and metal tanks.

"Current assets" means assets which can be converted to cash within one
year and are available to finance current operations or to pay current
liabilities.

"Current liabilities" means those liabilities which are payable within one
year.

"Decommissioning" means, with respect to Article 8 only, activities
described in R18-12-271(D)(1) through R18-12-271(D)(4).

"De minimis" means that quantity of regulated substance which is described
by one of the following:

When mixed with another regulated substance, is of such low concentration
that the toxicity, detectability, or corrective action requirements of the
mixture are the same as for the host substance.

When mixed with a non-regulated substance, is of such low concentration
that a release of the mixture does not pose a threat to public health or the
environment greater than that of the host substance.

"Department" means the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality.

"Derived waste" means any excavated soil, soil cuttings, and other soil
waste; fluids from well drilling, aquifer testing, well purging, sampling, and
other fluid wastes; or disposable decontamination, sampling, or personal
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


protection equipment generated as a result of release confirmation, LUST
site investigation, or other corrective action activities.

"Dielectric material" means a material that does not conduct electrical
current and that is used to electrically isolate UST systems or UST system
parts from surrounding soils or portions of UST systems from each other.

"Diesel" means, with respect to Article 4 only, a liquid petroleum product
that meets the specifications in American Society for Testing and Materials
Standard D975-18, "Standard Specification for Diesel Fuel Oils".

"Director" means the Director of the Arizona Department of Environmental
Quality.

"Dispenser" means equipment located aboveground that dispenses
regulated substances from the UST system.

"Dispenser system" means the dispenser and the equipment necessary to
connect the dispenser to the underground storage tank system.

"Electrical equipment" means underground equipment that contains
dielectric fluid that is necessary for the operation of equipment such as
transformers and buried electrical cable.

"Emergency power generator" means a power generator which is used only
when the primary source of power is interrupted. The interruption of the
primary source of power shall not be due to any action or failure to take any
action by the owner or operator of either the emergency generator or of the
UST system which stores fuel for the emergency generator.

"Engineering Control" for soil, surface water and groundwater
contamination has the definition at R18-7-201.

"Excavation zone" means the volume that contains or contained the tank
system and backfill material and is bounded by the ground surface, walls,
and floor of the pit and trenches into which the UST system is placed at the
time of installation.

"Excess lifetime cancer risk level" for soil, surface water, and groundwater
contamination, has the definition at R18-7-201.

"Existing tank system" means a tank system used to contain an
accumulation of regulated substances on or before December 22, 1988, or
for which installation has commenced on or before December 22, 1988.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Exposure" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination, has the
meaning defined in R18-7-201.

"Exposure assessment" means the qualitative or quantitative determination
or estimation of the magnitude, frequency, duration, and route of exposure
or potential for exposure of a receptor to chemicals of concern from a
release.

"Exposure pathway" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination,
has the meaning defined in R18-7-201.

"Exposure route" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination,
has the definition at R18-7-201.

"Facility" means a single parcel of property and any contiguous or adjacent
property on which one or more UST systems are located.

"Facility identification number" means the unique number assigned to a
facility by the Department either after the initial notification requirements
of A.R.S. § 49-1002 are satisfied, or after a refund claim is submitted and
approved under R18-12-409.

"Facility location, " for the purpose of Article 4 only, means the street
address or a description of the location of a storage facility.

"Facility name" means the business or operational name associated with a
storage facility.

"Farm tank" means a tank system located on a tract of land devoted to the
production of crops or raising animals, including fish, and associated
residences and improvements. A farm tank shall be located on the farm
property. The term "farm" includes fish hatcheries, rangeland, and nurseries
with growing operations.

"Field-constructed tank" means a tank constructed in the field. For example,
a tank constructed of concrete that is poured in the field, or a steel or
fiberglass tank primarily fabricated in the field is considered field-
constructed.

"Financial reporting year" means the latest consecutive 12-month period,
either fiscal or calendar, for which financial statements used to support the
financial test of self-insurance under R18-12-305 are prepared, including the
following, if applicable:

A 10-K report submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


An annual report of tangible net worth submitted to Dun and Bradstreet.

Annual reports submitted to the Energy Information Administration or the
Rural Utilities Service.

"Firm" means any for-profit entity, nonprofit or not-for-profit entity, or local
government. An individual doing business as a sole proprietor is a firm for
purposes of this Chapter.

"Flow-through process tank" means a tank that forms an integral part of a
production process through which there is a steady, variable, recurring, or
intermittent flow of materials during the operation of the process. The term
"flow-through process tank" does not include a tank used for the storage of
materials prior to their introduction into the production process or for the
storage of finished products or byproducts from the production process.

"Free product" means a mobile regulated substance that is present as a
nonaqueous phase liquid (e.g. liquid not dissolved in water).

"Gathering lines" means any pipeline, equipment, facility, or building used
in the transportation of oil or gas during oil or gas production or gathering
operations.

"Groundwater" means water in an aquifer as defined at A.R.S. § 49-201.

"Hazard Index" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination, has
the definition at R18-7-201.

"Hazard quotient" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination,
has the definition at R18-7-201.

"Hazardous substance UST system" means an UST system that contains a
hazardous substance as defined in A.R.S. § 49-1001 or any mixture of such
substance and petroleum, which is not a petroleum UST system.

"Heating oil" means petroleum that is No. 1, No. 2, No. 4-light, No. 4-heavy,
No. 5-light, No. 5-heavy, or No. 6 technical grades of fuel oil; other residual
fuel oils (including Navy Special Fuel Oil and Bunker C); and other fuels
when used as substitutes for one of these fuel oils for heating purposes.

"Hydraulic lift tank" means a tank holding hydraulic fluid for a closed-loop
mechanical system that uses compressed air or hydraulic fluid to operate
lifts, elevators, and other similar devices.

"ICC" means the International Code Council.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Implementing agency" means, with respect to Article 3 only, the Arizona
Department of Environmental Quality for UST systems subject to the
jurisdiction of the state of Arizona, or the EPA for other jurisdictions or, in
the case of a state with a program approved under 42 U.S.C. 6991 (or
pursuant to a memorandum of agreement with EPA), the designated state or
local agency responsible for carrying out an approved UST program.

"Indian country" means, under 18 U.S.C. 1151, all of the following:

All land within the limits of an Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of
the United States government which is also located within the borders of
this state, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-
of-way running through the reservation.

All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the state whether
within the original or subsequently acquired territory of the state.

All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished,
including rights-of-way running through such allotments.

"Induration" means the consolidation of a rock or rock material by the
action of heat, pressure, or the introduction of some cementing material not
commonly contained in the original mass. Induration also means the
hardening of a soil horizon by chemical action to form hardpan (caliche).

"Installation" means the placement and preparation for placement of any
UST system or UST system part into an excavation zone. Installation is
considered to have commenced if both of the following exist:

The owner and operator has obtained all federal, state, and local approvals
or permits necessary to begin physical construction of the site or installation
of the UST system.

The owner and operator has begun a continuous on-site physical
construction or installation program or has entered into contractual
obligations, which cannot be canceled or modified without substantial loss,
for physical construction at the site or installation of the UST system to be
completed within a reasonable time.

"Institutional control" for soil, surface water, and groundwater
contamination, has the definition at R18-7-201.

"Legal defense cost" means, with respect to Article 3 only, any expense that
an owner or operator, or provider of financial assurance incurs in defending
against claims or actions brought under any of the following circumstances:
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


By EPA or a state to require corrective action or to recover the costs of
corrective action;

By or on behalf of a 3 rd party for bodily injury or property damage caused by
an accidental release; or

By any person to enforce the terms of a financial assurance mechanism.

"Liquid trap" means sumps, well cellars, and other traps used in association
with oil and gas production, gathering, and extraction operations (including
gas production plants), for the purpose of collecting oil, water, and other
liquids. These liquid traps may temporarily collect liquids for subsequent
disposition or reinjection into a production or pipeline stream, or may
collect and separate liquids from a gas stream.

"Local government" means a county, city, town, school district, water and
aqueduct management district, irrigation district, power district, electrical
district, agricultural improvement district, drainage and flood control
district, tax levying public improvement district, local government public
transportation system, and any political subdivision defined in A.R.S. § 49-
1001.

"LUST" means leaking UST, or one that has leaked.

"LUST case" means all of the documentation related to a specific LUST
number, which is maintained on file by the Department.

"LUST number" means the unique number assigned to a release by the
Department after the notification requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1004(A) are
met.

"LUST site" means the UST facility from which a release has occurred.

"Maintenance" means those actions necessary to ensure the proper working
condition of an UST system or equipment used in corrective actions.

"Motor vehicle fuel, " for the purpose of Article 4 only, has the definition at
A.R.S. § 28-101.

"Natural attenuation" means a reduction in mass or concentration of a
chemical of concern in groundwater over time or distance from the release
point due to naturally occurring physical, chemical, and biological processes,
such as: biodegradation, dispersion, dilution, sorption, and volatilization.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Nature of the regulated substance" means the chemical and physical
properties of the regulated substance stored in the UST, and any changes to
the chemical and physical properties upon or after release.

"Nature of the release" means the known or estimated means by which the
contents of the UST was dispersed from the UST system into the
surrounding media, and the conditions of the UST system and media at the
time of release.

"New tank system" means a tank system that will be used to contain an
accumulation of regulated substances and for which installation has
commenced after December 22, 1988.

"On-site control" means, for the purpose of Article 8 only, being at the
location where tank service is being performed while tank service is
performed.

"On the premises where stored" means, with respect to A.R.S. § 49-
1001(18)(b) only, a single parcel of property or any contiguous or adjacent
parcels of property.

"Operational life" means the period beginning when installation of the tank
system has begun and ending when the tank system is properly closed under
R18-12-271 through R18-12-274.

"Overfill release" means a release that occurs when a tank is filled beyond its
capacity, resulting in a discharge of a regulated substance to the
environment.

"Owner identification number" means the unique number assigned to the
owner of an UST by the Department after the initial notification
requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1002 are satisfied, or after a refund claim is
submitted and approved pursuant to R18-12-409.

"Petroleum marketing facility" means a facility at which petroleum is
produced or refined and all facilities from which petroleum is sold or
transferred to other petroleum marketers or to the public.

"Petroleum UST system" means an UST system that contains or contained
petroleum or a mixture of petroleum with de minimis quantities of other
regulated substances. These systems include those containing motor fuels,
jet fuels, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, petroleum solvents,
and used oils.

"Pipe" or "Piping" means a hollow cylinder or tubular conduit that is
constructed of non-earthen materials.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Pipeline facility" means new or existing pipe rights-of-way and any
associated equipment, gathering lines, facilities, or buildings.

"Point of compliance" means the geographic location at which the
concentration of the chemical of concern is to be at or below the risk-based
corrective action standard determined to be protective of public health and
the environment.

"Point of exposure" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination,
has the definition at R18-7-201 for "exposure point."

"Property damage" means physical injury to, destruction of, or
contamination of tangible property, including all resulting loss of use of that
property; or loss of use of tangible property that is not physically injured,
destroyed, or contaminated, but has been evacuated, withdrawn from use, or
rendered inaccessible.

"Provider of financial assurance" means an entity that provides financial
assurance to an owner or operator of an UST through one of the
mechanisms listed in R18-12-305 through R18-12-317, including a
guarantor, insurer, risk retention group, surety, or issuer of a letter of credit.

"RCRA" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

"Receptor" means persons, enclosed structures, subsurface utilities, waters
of the state, or water supply wells and wellhead protection areas.

"Release confirmation" means free product discovery, or reported laboratory
analytical results of samples collected and analyzed in accordance with the
sampling requirements of R18-12-280 and A.A.C. Title 9, Chapter 14, Article
6 which indicate a release of a regulated substance from the UST system.

"Release confirmation date" means the date that an owner or operator first
confirms the release, or the date that the owner or operator is informed of a
release confirmation made by another person.

"Release detection" means determining whether a release of a regulated
substance has occurred from the UST system into the environment or a leak
has occurred into the interstitial space between the UST system and its
secondary barrier or secondary containment around it.

"Remediation" for soil, surface water, and groundwater contamination, has
the definition at A.R.S. § 49-151.

"Repair" means to restore to proper operating condition a tank pipe, spill
prevention equipment, overfill prevention equipment, corrosion protection
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


equipment, release detection equipment or other UST system component
that has caused or may cause a release of regulated substance from the UST
system or has failed to function properly.

"Replaced" means:

(a) For a tank - to remove a tank and install another tank.

(b) For piping - removing and replacing any piping component.

"Residential tank" means an UST system located on property used primarily
for dwelling purposes.

"Retrofit" means to add to an UST system, equipment or parts that were not
originally included or installed as part of the UST system.

"Risk characterization" means the qualitative and quantitative
determination of combined risks to receptors from individual chemicals of
concern and exposure pathways, and the associated uncertainties.

"Routinely contains product" or "routinely contains regulated substance"
means the part of an UST system which is designed to contain regulated
substances and includes all internal areas of the tank and all internal areas
of the piping, excluding only the vent piping.

"SARA" means the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986, P.L. 99-499.

"Secondary containment" or "Secondarily contained" means a release
prevention and release detection system for a tank or piping. This system
has an inner and outer barrier with an interstitial space that is monitored for
leaks. This term includes containment sumps when used for interstitial
monitoring of piping.

"Septic tank" means a water-tight covered receptacle designed to receive or
process, through liquid separation or biological digestion, the sewage
discharged from a building sewer. The effluent from such receptacle is
distributed for disposal through the soil and settled solids and scum from
the tank are pumped out periodically and hauled to a treatment facility.

"Site location map" means a representation by means of signs and symbols
on a planar surface, at an established scale, of the streets, wells, and general
use of the land for properties within at least one-quarter mile of the facility
boundaries, with the direction of orientation indicated.
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Site plan" means a representation by means of signs and symbols on a
planar surface, at an established scale, of the physical features (natural,
artificial, or both) of the facility and surrounding area necessary to meet the
requirements under which the site plan is prepared, with the direction of
orientation indicated.

"Site vicinity map" means a representation by means of signs and symbols
on a planar surface, at an established scale, of the natural and artificial
physical features, used in the exposure assessment, that occur within at least
500 feet of the facility boundaries, with the direction of orientation
indicated.

"Solid Waste Disposal Act" for the purposes of this Chapter means the
"federal act" as defined by A.R.S. § 49-921.

"Source area" means either the location of the release from an UST, the
location of free product, the location of the highest soil and groundwater
concentration of chemicals of concern, or the location of a soil concentration
of chemicals of concern which may continue to impact groundwater or
surface water.

"Source of contamination" means with respect to this Chapter, the
conditions described in A.R.S. § 49-1053(J).

"Spill" means the loss of regulated substance during the transfer of a
regulated substance to an UST system.

"Storage facility" means, for the purpose of Article 4 only, the common,
identifiable, location at which deliveries of regulated substances are made to
an UST, an above ground storage tank, or to a group of underground and
above ground storage tanks, and to which the Department has assigned a
single facility identification number.

"Storm-water or wastewater collection system" means piping, pumps,
conduits, and any other equipment necessary to collect and transport the
flow of surface water run-off resulting from precipitation, or of domestic,
commercial, or industrial wastewater to and from retention areas or any
areas where treatment is designated to occur. The collection of storm water
and wastewater does not include treatment except where incidental to
conveyance.

"Substantial business relationship" means the extent of a business
relationship necessary under Arizona law to make a guarantee contract
issued incident to that relationship valid and enforceable. A guarantee
contract is issued "incident to that relationship" if it arises from and
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


depends on existing economic transactions between the guarantor and the
owner or operator.

"Substantial governmental relationship" means the extent of a governmental
relationship necessary under Arizona law to make an added guarantee
contract issued incident to that relationship valid and enforceable. A
guarantee contract under R18-12-316 is issued "incident to that relationship"
if it arises from a clear commonality of interest in the event of an UST
release such as coterminous boundaries, overlapping constituencies,
common groundwater aquifer, or other relationship other than monetary
compensation that provides a motivation for the guarantor to provide a
guarantee.

"Supplier" means, for the purpose of Article 4 only, with respect to collection
of the UST excise tax, a person who is described by either A.R.S. § 28-
6001(A) or (B). The term "supplier" includes a distributor, as defined in
A.R.S. § 28-5601, who is required to be licensed by A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter
16, Article 1.

"Supplier identification number" means, for the purpose of Article 4 only,
the unique number assigned to the supplier by the Department of
Transportation for the purpose of administering the motor vehicle fuel tax
under A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 16, Article 1.

"Surface impoundment" means a natural topographic depression, artificial
excavation, or diked area formed primarily of earthen materials, but which
may be lined with artificial materials, that is not an injection well.

"Surface water" has the definition at R18-11-101.

"Surficial soil" means any soil occurring between the current surface
elevation and extending to that depth for which reasonably foreseeable
construction activities may excavate and relocate soils to surface elevation,
and any stockpiles generated from soils of any depth.

"Suspected release discovery date" means the day an owner or operator first
has reason to believe, through direct discovery or being informed by another
person, that a suspected release exists.

"Suspected release notification date" means the day the Department informs
an owner or operator, as evidenced by the return receipt, that a UST may be
the source of a release.

"Tangible net worth" means, for purposes of R18-12-101 and R18-12-305,
the tangible assets that remain after deducting liabilities; such assets do not
include intangibles such as goodwill and rights to patents or royalties. For
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


purposes of this definition, "assets" means all existing and all probable
future economic benefits obtained or controlled by a particular entity as a
result of past transactions.

"Tax" means, for the purpose of Article 4 only, the excise tax on the
operation of USTs levied by A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6, Article 2. "Taxpayer"
means, for the purpose of Article 4 only, the owner or operator of an UST
who pays the tax.

"Training program" means any program that provides information to and
evaluates the knowledge of a Class A, Class B, or Class C operator through
testing, practical demonstration, or another approach acceptable to the
Department regarding requirements for UST systems that meets the
requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1083 and this Chapter.

"Under-dispenser containment" or "UDC" means containment underneath a
dispenser system designed to prevent leaks from the dispenser and piping
within or above the UDC from reaching soil or groundwater.

"Underground area" means an underground room, such as a basement,
cellar, shaft, or vault that provides enough space for physical inspection of
the exterior of the tank, situated on or above the surface of the floor.

"Underground storage tank" has the definition at A.R.S. § 49-1001.

"Upgrade" means the addition to or retrofit of an UST system or UST system
parts, under R18-12-221, to improve the ability to prevent release of a
regulated substance.

"UST" means an underground storage tank as defined at A.R.S. § 49-1001.

"UST regulatory program" means the program established by and described
in A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6 and the rules promulgated under that program.

"UST system" or "tank system" means an UST, connected underground
piping, impact valve and connected underground ancillary equipment and
containment system, if any.

"Vadose zone" has the definition at A.R.S. § 49-201.

"Volatile regulated substance" means any regulated substance that generally
has the following chemical characteristics: a vapor pressure of greater than
0.5 mmHg at 20°C, a Henry's Law Constant of greater than 1 x 10 -5 atm m 3
/mol, and which has a boiling point of less than 250° - 300°C.
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-101 Definitions (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


"Wastewater treatment tank" means a tank system that is designed to
receive and treat an influent wastewater through physical, chemical, or
biological methods.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective May
23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).
Amended effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August 20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3).
Amended by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Amended by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605, effective
February 2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R.
3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-102 Applicability (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-102. Applicability

A. Owners and operators. As provided in A.R.S. § 49-1016(A), the
responsibilities of this Chapter, unless indicated otherwise, are imposed on
persons who are the owner or the operator of an UST. If the owner and
operator of an UST are separate persons, only one person is required to
discharge any specific responsibility. Both persons are liable in the event of
noncompliance.

B. Persons in possession or control of property. The requirements of this
Chapter are applicable to a person acting under the provisions of A.R.S. §
49-1016(C).

C. No supersedence. Nothing in this Chapter supersedes the requirements of
the following:

1. An order of a court of competent jurisdiction in effect before August 20,
2002,

2. An order of the Director under A.R.S. § 49-1013 in effect before August
20, 2002.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective May
23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).
Amended by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August 20, 2002
(Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective
1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-103. Material Incorporated by Reference

The following materials are incorporated by reference and applicable in this
Chapter unless specifically stated otherwise. The materials include no future
editions or amendments, are on file with the Department, and are also
available as indicated below:

40 CFR 280.10, 40 CFR 280.95(d), 40 CFR 280.96(c), 40 CFR 280.97(b)(1)
and (2), 40 CFR 280.98(b), 40 CFR 280.99(b), 40 CFR 280.103(b)(1) and
(2), 40 CFR 280.104(d), 40 CFR 280.104(e), 40 CFR 280.105(c), 40 CFR
280.106(d), 40 CFR 280.106(e), 40 CFR 280.107(d), 40 CFR
280.111(b)(11)(i), 40 CFR 280.112(b)(2)(i), 40 CFR 144.63, and 40 CFR
264.147(f)(1), amended as of October 13, 2015 and available at www.ecfr.gov
;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1007, "Loading and
Unloading of MC 306/DOT 406 Cargo Tank Motor Vehicles", 1st edition,
amended as of March 2001, reaffirmed February 2011, available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1604, "Closure of
Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks", 3rd edition, available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Publication 1615, "Installation of
Underground Hazardous Substances or Petroleum Storage Systems", 6th
edition, April 2011, available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1621, "Bulk Liquid
Stock Control At Retail Outlets", 5th edition, available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1626, "Storing and
Handling Ethanol and Gasoline-Ethanol Blends at Distribution Terminals
and Filling Stations", 2nd edition, available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1631, "Interior Lining
and Periodic Inspection of Underground Storage Tanks", 5th edition,
available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1632, "Cathodic
Protection of Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks and Piping Systems",
3rd edition, available at www.techstreet.com ;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


American Petroleum Institute Standard 2015, "Requirements for Safe Entry
and Cleaning of Petroleum Storage Tanks", 8th edition, available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 2016, "Guidelines
and Procedures for Entering and Cleaning Petroleum Storage Tanks", 1st
edition, available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 2200, "Repairing
Hazardous Liquid Pipelines", 5th edition, available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D975-18, "Standard
Specification for Diesel Fuel Oils", available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4547-15: "Standard
Guide for Sampling Waste and Soils for Volatile Organic Compounds",
available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4700-15, "Standard
Guide for Soil Sampling from the Vadose Zone", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4840-99 (2018)e1,
"Standard Guide for Sample Chain-of-Custody Procedures", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D5088-15a, "Standard
Practice for Decontamination of Field Equipment Used at Waste Sites",
available at www.techstreet.com ;

American Society for Testing and Materials Standard G158-98, "Standard
Guide for Three Methods of Assessing Buried Steel Tanks", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

ATA Airport Fuel Facility Operations and Maintenance Guidance Manual,
revision 2004.1, available at https://publications.airlines.org ;

Department of Defense Directive 4140.25-M, volume 9, available at
available at www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/issuances/dodm ;

Fiberglass Tank and Pipe Institute Protocol RP 2007-2, "Field Test Protocol
for Testing the Annular Space of Installed Underground Fiberglass Double
and Triple-Wall Tanks with Dry Annular Space", available at
www.fiberglasstankandpipe.com ;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


Fiberglass Tank and Pipe Institute Recommended Practice T-95-1,
"Remanufacturing of Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Underground
Storage Tanks", available at www.fiberglasstankandpipe.com ;

"Low Level Hydrostatic Testing for Underground Storage Tank Containment
Sumps", amended October 9, 2018, available at ADEQ;

NACE International Standard Practice SP0169-2013, "Control of External
Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping Systems",
available at www.techstreet.com ;

NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control of
Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

NACE International Standard Test Method TM0101-2012, "Measurement
Techniques Related to Criteria for Cathodic Protection of Underground
Storage Tank Systems", available at www.techstreet.com ;

NACE International Standard Test Method TM0497-2012, "Measurement
Techniques Related to Criteria for Cathodic Protection on Underground or
Submerged Metallic Piping Systems", available at www.techstreet.com ;

National Fire Protection Association Publication 385, "Standard for Tank
Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids", amended as of 2017,
available at www.nfpa.org ;

National Fire Protection Association Standard 30, "Flammable and
Combustible Liquids Code", 2018 edition, available at www.nfpa.org ;

National Fire Protection Association Standard 30A, "Code for Motor Fuel
Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages", 2018 edition, available at
www.nfpa.org ;

National Fire Protection Association Standard 326, "Standard for the
Safeguarding of Tanks and Containers for Entry, Cleaning, or Repair", 2015
edition, available at www.nfpa.org ;

National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, "Chapter A, Entry,
Cleaning, Interior Inspection, Repair and Lining of Underground Storage
Tanks"; and Chapter B, "10 And 5 Year Inspection for Lined Tanks without
Cathodic Protection", 2009 revision, available at www.nlpa-online.org ;

National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, Chapter A, "Entry,
Cleaning, Interior Inspection, Repair and Lining of Underground Storage
Tanks", (2009 revision), available at www.nlpa-online.org ;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, Chapter C, "Internal
Inspection of Steel Tanks for Retrofit of Cathodic Protection", 2009 revision,
available at www.nlpa-online.org ;

Petroleum Equipment Institute Publication PEI/RP100-17, "Recommended
Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid Storage Systems", available
at www.techstreet.com ;

Petroleum Equipment Institute Publication RP1200-17, "Recommended
Practices for the Testing and Verification of Spill, Overfill, Leak Detection
and Secondary Containment Equipment at UST Facilities", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

Petroleum Equipment Institute RP900-17, "Recommended Practices for the
Inspection and Maintenance of UST Systems", available at
www.techstreet.com ;

Steel Tank Institute ACT-100, "Specification for External Corrosion
Protection of FRP Composite Steel Underground Storage Tanks-F894",
revised May 2018, available at www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute ACT-100U Specification F961, "Specification for
External Corrosion Protection of Composite Steel Underground Storage
Tanks", February 2017, available at www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R012, "Recommended Practice
for Interstitial Tightness Testing of Existing Underground Double Wall Steel
Tanks", revised July 2016, available at www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R051, "Cathodic Protection
Testing Procedures for STI-P3 ® USTs", April 2017, available at
www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R892, "Recommended Practice
for Corrosion Protection of Underground Piping Networks Associated with
Liquid Storage and Dispensing Systems", revised January 2006, available at
www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R972, "Recommended Practice
for the Addition of Supplemental Anodes to STI-P3 ® USTs", December
2010, available at www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute Specification F922, "Steel Tank Institute Specification
for Permatank ® ", February 2017, available at www.steeltank.com ;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


Steel Tank Institute Standard F841, "Standard for Dual Wall Underground
Steel Storage Tanks", January 2006, available at www.steeltank.com ;

Steel Tank Institute sti-P3 "Specification and Manual for External Corrosion
Protection of Underground Steel Storage Tanks", revised May 2018,
available at www.steeltank.com ;

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Publication 80-
106, "Criteria for a Recommended Standard: Working in Confined Spaces",
amended as of December 1979, available at www.cdc.gov/niosh ;

Underwriters Laboratories 971, "Standard for Nonmetallic Underground
Piping for Flammable Liquids", 2nd edition, June 17, 2008, available at
www.shopulstandards.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories of Canada CAN/ULC-S603.1:2017, "Standard for
External Corrosion Protection Systems for Steel Underground Tanks for
Flammable and Combustible Liquids", amended as of February 2017,
available at www.techstreet.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories of Canada CAN/ULC-S603-14, "Standard for
Steel Underground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids",
amended as of October 2014, available at
https://canada.ul.com/ulcstandards/ ;

Underwriters Laboratories of Canada S615-14, "Standard for Fibre
Reinforced Plastic Underground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible
Liquids", available at www.techstreet.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories of Canada Standard S631-05, "Isolating Bushings
for Steel Underground Tanks Protected with External Corrosion Protection
Systems", amended as of July 2005, available at www.techstreet.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories of Canada Standard S660 "Standard for
Nonmetallic Underground Piping for Flammable and Combustible Liquids",
1st edition, May 1, 2008, available at www.techstreet.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories Standard 58, "Standard for Steel Underground
Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids", 10th edition, amended as
of January 31, 2018, available at www.shopulstandards.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1316, "Glass-Fiber-Reinforced Plastic
Underground Storage Tanks for Petroleum Products, Alcohols, and Alcohol-
Gasoline Mixtures", 3rd edition, available at www.techstreet.com ;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-103 Material Incorporated by
     Reference (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1746, "Standard for External Corrosion
Protection Systems for Steel Underground Storage Tanks", 3rd edition,
amended December 19, 2014, available at www.techstreet.com ;

Underwriters Laboratories Subject 971A, "Outline of Investigation for
Metallic Underground Fuel Pipe"; 1st edition, October 18, 2006, available at
www.shopulstandards.com ;

Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-460-01, Petroleum Fuel Facilities Design,
With Change 2, revised 6/17/15, available at www.wbdg.org .

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective May
23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Repealed effective July 30, 1990 (Supp. 96-3).
Adopted by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-210 Applicability (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-210. Applicability

A. The requirements of this Article apply to all owners and operators of an
UST system, except as otherwise provided in subsections (B) and (C).

1. Previously deferred UST systems. Airport hydrant fuel distribution
systems, UST systems with field-constructed tanks, and UST systems that
store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators shall meet the
requirements of this Chapter as follows:

a. Airport hydrant fuel distribution systems and UST systems with field-
constructed tanks shall meet the requirements in Article 9.

b. UST systems that store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators
installed on or before January 1, 2020 shall meet the release detection
requirements of R18-12-240 through R18-12-245 on or before March 1,
2020.

c. UST systems that store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators
installed after January 1, 2020 shall meet all applicable requirements of this
Chapter at installation.

2. Any UST system listed in subsection (C) of this Section shall meet the
requirements of R18-12-211.

B. Excluded UST systems. The following UST systems are excluded from the
requirements of this Article:

1. Any UST system holding hazardous wastes which are listed or identified
under Subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, or a mixture of such
hazardous waste and other regulated substances;

2. Any wastewater treatment tank system that is part of a wastewater
treatment facility regulated under Section 402 or 307(b) of the Clean Water
Act;

3. Equipment or machinery that contains regulated substances solely for
operational purposes such as hydraulic lift tanks and electrical equipment
tanks;

4. Any UST system with a capacity of 110 gallons or less;

5. Any UST system that contains a de minimis concentration of regulated
substances;
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-210 Applicability (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


6. Any emergency spill or overflow containment UST system that is
expeditiously emptied after use.

C. Partially excluded UST systems. Except as noted in subsection (C)(2)
below, only R18-12-101, R18-12-210, R18-12-211, R18-12-222, R18-12-261
through R18-12-264.01, and the provisions of A.R.S. § § 49-1001.01 and 49-
1005 and the rules promulgated thereunder apply to:

1. Wastewater treatment tank systems other than those specified in
subsection (B)(2);

2. Aboveground storage tanks associated with:

a. Airport hydrant fuel distribution systems regulated under Article 9.

b. UST systems with field-constructed tanks regulated under Article 9.

3. Any UST systems containing radioactive material that are regulated under
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. § § 2011 et seq.;

4. Any UST system that is part of an emergency generator system at nuclear
power generation facilities licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
and subject to Nuclear Regulatory Commission requirements regarding
design and quality criteria, including but not limited to 10 CFR 50;

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-211 Installation Requirements for
  Partially Excluded Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code
                         (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-211. Installation Requirements for Partially Excluded
UST Systems

A. Owners and operators installing an UST system listed in R18-12-
210(C)(1), (3), or (4) storing regulated substances, whether of single-wall or
double-wall construction, shall ensure that it meets all of the following
requirements:

1. The UST system will prevent releases due to corrosion or structural failure
for the operational life of the UST system;

2. The UST system is cathodically protected against corrosion, constructed
of non-corrodible material, steel clad with a non-corrodible material, or
designed in a manner to prevent the release or threatened release of any
stored substance;

3. The UST system is constructed or lined with material that is compatible
with the stored substance.

B. Notwithstanding subsection (A), an UST system without corrosion
protection may be installed at a site that is determined by a corrosion expert
not to be corrosive enough to cause it to have a release due to corrosion
during its operational life. Owners and operators shall maintain records that
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subsection for the
remaining operational life of the UST system.

C. Compliance with the corrosion protection provisions of this Section shall
be determined in accordance with the codes of practice set forth in R18-12-
281(A).

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-219 Installation of New Ust Systems
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-219. Installation of New UST Systems

A. An owner or operator that intends to bring a new underground storage
tank system into operation shall submit to the Director on a Department
form all of the following information at least 30 days before beginning
installation:

1. The tank's size, construction material, manufacturer, and intended system
contents;

2. The certified UST service provider who will perform or supervise the
installation;

3. Detailed installation plans showing the site drawn to scale, piping layouts,
electrical service, and stating that the tanks will be installed according to the
manufacturer's instructions, and the applicable installation standards and
codes of practice in R18-12-220 and R18-12-281;

4. Evidence that the intended system contents are compatible with the UST
system;

5. A statement describing how the owner or operator plans to satisfy
financial responsibility in accordance with Article 3;

6. The intended installation schedule with the proposed backfill date.

B. Within 15 calendar days of receipt of the information required in
subsection (A), the Department shall send the owner or operator an email
indicating whether the proposed installation may or may not proceed, or
whether further information is necessary.

C. An owner or operator may not backfill a new tank system installation
until approval by a representative of the Director after an onsite inspection.
At the time of inspection the owner or operator shall have on site
certifications for all equipment and test results for all piping.

(Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-220 Performance Standards for New
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-220. Performance Standards for New UST Systems

A. Owners and operators of a new UST system shall meet the requirements
described in this Section in order to prevent releases due to structural
failure, corrosion, or spills and overfills for as long as the UST system is used
to store regulated substances. In addition, except for suction piping that
meets the requirements of R18-12-241(C)(2)(a) through (e), tanks and
piping installed or replaced after January 1, 2009 shall be secondarily
contained and use interstitial monitoring in accordance with R18-12-243(G).
Secondary contain, be able to contain regulated substances leaked from the
primary containment until they are detected and removed and pre-vent the
release of regulated substances to the environment at any time during the
operational life of the UST system. For cases where the piping to be replaced
exceeds the percentage in A.R.S. § 49-1009(C), the entire piping run shall be
secondarily contained.

B. A tank shall be properly designed and constructed, and any portion
underground that routinely contains a regulated substance shall be
protected from corrosion in accordance with a code of practice developed by
a nationally recognized association or independent testing laboratory as
specified below:

1. The tank is constructed of fiberglass-reinforced plastic. Compliance with
this subsection may be determined in accordance with the performance
standards set forth in R18-12-281(B);

2. The tank is constructed of steel and is cathodically protected, in
accordance with one of the performance standards of R18-12-281(C), by all
of the following:

a. The tank is coated with a suitable dielectric material;

b. The field-installed cathodic protection systems are designed by a
corrosion expert;

c. The impressed current systems, if used, are designed to allow
determination of current operating status as required in R18-12-231(C);

d. The cathodic protection systems are operated and maintained in
accordance with R18-12-231.

3. The tank is constructed of steel and clad or jacketed with a non-corrodible
material. Compliance with this subsection shall be determined in accordance
with one of the performance standards set forth in R18-12-281(D).
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-220 Performance Standards for New
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. The tank is constructed of metal without additional corrosion protection
measures, and both of the following conditions are met:

a. The tank is installed at a site that is determined by a corrosion expert not
to be corrosive enough to cause it to have a release due to corrosion during
its operating life;

b. Owners and operators maintain records that demonstrate compliance
with the requirements of subsection (B)(4)(a) for the remaining operational
life of the tank.

5. The tank construction and corrosion protection are determined by the
Department to be designed to prevent the release or threatened release of
any stored regulated substance in a manner that is no less protective of
human health and the environment than the requirements of subsections
(B)(1) through (4).

C. The piping that routinely contains regulated substances and is in contact
with the ground shall be properly designed, constructed, and protected from
corrosion in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally
recognized association or independent testing laboratory as specified below:

1. The piping is constructed of non-corrodible material. Compliance with
this subsection may be determined in accordance with the performance
standard set forth in R18-12-281(E).

2. The piping is constructed of steel and in meeting the performance
standards of R18-12-281(F) is cathodically protected according to all of the
following:

a. The pipmg is coated with a suitable dielectric material;

b. Field-installed cathodic protection systems are designed by a corrosion
expert;

c. Impressed current systems, if used, are designed to allow determination of
current operating status as required in R18-12-231(C);

d. Cathodic protection systems are operated and maintained in accordance
with R18-12-231.

3. The piping is constructed of metal without additional corrosion protection
measures, and all of the following requirements are satisfied:
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-220 Performance Standards for New
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


a. The piping is installed at a site that is determined by a corrosion expert to
not be corrosive enough to cause it to have a release due to corrosion during
its operating life;

b. Owners and operators maintain records that demonstrate compliance
with the requirements of subsection (a) for the remaining life of the piping.

4. The piping construction and corrosion protection are determined by the
Department to be designed to prevent the release or threatened release of
any stored regulated substance in a manner that is no less protective of
human health and the environment than the requirements in subsections
(C)(1) through (3).

D. Except as provided in subsections D)(3) and (D)(4), owners and
operators shall use both of the following spill and overfill prevention
equipment systems to prevent spilling and overfilling associated with
transfer of a regulated substance to the UST system:

1. Spill prevention equipment that will prevent release of a regulated
substance to the environment when the transfer hose is detached from the
fill pipe;

2. Overfill prevention equipment that will do one or more of the following:

a. Automatically shut off flow into the tank when the tank is no more than
95% full;

b. Alert the transfer operator when the tank is no more than 90% full by
restricting the flow into the tank or triggering a high-level alarm that can be
heard at the point of transfer;

c. Restrict flow 30 minutes prior to overfilling, alert the operator with a high
level alarm that can be heard at the point of transfer one minute before
overfilling, or automatically shut off flow into the tank so that none of the
fittings located on top of the tank are exposed to a regulated substance due
to overfilling.

3. Owners and operators are not required to use the spill and overfill
prevention equipment specified in subsections (D)(1) and (2) if either of the
following conditions is met:

a. Alternative equipment is used that is determined by the Department to be
no less protective of human health and the environment than the equipment
specified in subsections (D)(1) or (2);

b. The tank is filled by transfers of no more than 25 gallons at one time.
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-220 Performance Standards for New
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. Flow restrictors used in vent lines may not be used to comply with
subsection (D)(2) of this Section when overfill prevention is installed or
replaced.

5. Spill and overfill prevention equipment shall be periodically tested or
inspected in accordance with R18-12-235.

E. The UST system shall

be properly installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions

and in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally
recognized association or independent testing laboratory, such as those
listed in R18-12-281(G).

F. Owners and operators shall ensure, in addition to the installation being
inspected and approved by the Department under R18-12-219, that one or
more of the following methods of certification, testing, or inspection is used
to demonstrate compliance with subsection (E):

1. The installer has been certified by the tank and piping manufacturers,

2. The installation has been inspected and certified by a registered
professional engineer with education and experience in UST system
installation, or

3. All work listed in the manufacturer's installation checklists has been
completed, or

4. Owners and operators have complied with another method for ensuring
compliance with subsection (E) that is determined by the Department to be
no less protective of human health and the environment.

G. Under-dispenser containment. Each UST system shall be equipped with
under-dispenser containment for any new dispenser installed or replaced
after January 1, 2009. Under-dispenser containment shall be liquid-tight on
its sides, bottom, and at any penetrations. Under-dispenser containment
shall allow for visual inspection and access to the components in the
containment system or be periodically monitored for leaks from the
dispenser system.

H. Notwithstanding subsection (G), under dispenser containment is only
required when a new dispenser system is installed if the requirement for
under dispenser containment in A.R.S. § 49-1009(D) is changed to apply
only to new dispenser system installation. A dispenser system is considered
new when both the dispenser and the equipment needed to connect the
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-220 Performance Standards for New
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


dispenser to the underground storage tank system are installed at an UST
facility. The equipment necessary to connect the dispenser to the
underground storage tank system includes check valves, shear valves,
unburied risers or flexible connectors, or other transitional components that
are underneath the dispenser and connect the dispenser to the underground
piping.

I. Owners shall provide a certification of compliance on the UST Notification
Form in accordance with R18-12-222(D) and shall ensure that a certification
statement in accordance with the applicable requirements of R18-12-222(E)
is signed by the installer on the Notification Form prior to submission to the
Department.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-221 Upgrading of Existing Ust Systems
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-221. Upgrading of Existing UST Systems

A. Owners and operators shall permanently close (in accordance with R18-
12-270 through R18-12-274 ) any UST system that does not meet the new
UST system performance standards in R18-12-220 or has not been upgraded
in accordance with subsections (F) through (I) of this Section. This does not
apply to previously deferred UST systems described in Article 9 and where
an upgrade is determined to be appropriate by the Department. All existing
UST systems shall comply with one of the following requirements:

1. New UST system performance standards under R18-12-220;

2. The upgrading requirements described in subsections (E) through (H);

3. Closure requirements under R18-12-270 through R18-12-274, including
applicable requirements for release reporting and corrective action under
R18-12-250 through R18-12-264.01.

B. Except for repairs described in subsection (D), an owner or operator that
intends to modify an underground storage tank system, including upgrading
to comply with subsection (A), shall submit to the Director on a Department
form all of the following information at least 30 days before beginning the
tank system modifications:

1. The tank's size, construction material, location and intended use.

2. The certified UST service provider(s) performing or supervising the
modification.

3. A description of the modifications, including detailed plans, where
necessary, showing the site, piping layouts, electrical service, and stating
that the modifications will be installed according to the manufacturers'
instructions, and the applicable standards and codes of practice in R18-12-
220 and R18-12-281.

4. When applicable, evidence that compatibility under R18-12-232 has been
considered.

5. The intended modification schedule with any proposed backfill date.

C. For the purposes of this Section, "modify" means any of the following:
changing dispensers, installing under dispenser containment, relining or
retrofitting a tank, replacing pipe, adding or changing corrosion protection,
or making repairs in response to a confirmed or suspected release. Modify
does not mean scheduled maintenance or repair above the shear valve.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-221 Upgrading of Existing Ust Systems
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


D. The owner or operator shall submit the information in subsection (B) to
the Department as soon as possible after the start of emergency repairs and
as soon as possible before the date of the following proposed repairs:

1. Repairs in response to a confirmed or suspected release if an owner or
operator is removing a UST from operation for the repairs;

2. Minor repairs, including replacement of a leak detection sensor, and
repairs to fittings.

E. Within 15 calendar days of receipt of information under subsection (B),
the Department shall send the owner or operator an email indicating
whether the proposed modification may or may not proceed, whether a
Department inspection will be required, or whether further information is
necessary. At the time of the modification, the owner or operator shall have
on site service provider certifications and test results for all equipment
installed.

F. A steel tank shall be upgraded to meet one of the following requirements
in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized
association or independent testing laboratory:

1. Tanks upgraded by internal lining shall meet both of the following
conditions:

a. The internal lining is installed in accordance with the requirements of
R18-12-233, and R18-12-281(H)(1) or (2);

b. Within 10 years after the internal lining is installed, and every five years
thereafter, the lined tank is internally inspected and found to be structurally
sound with the lining still performing in accordance with original design
specifications. If the internal lining is no longer performing in accordance
with original design specifications and cannot be repaired in accordance
with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or
independent testing laboratory, then the lined tank shall be permanently
closed in accordance with R18-12-270 through R18-12-274.

2. Tanks upgraded by cathodic protection shall meet the requirements of
R18-12-220(B)(2)(b) through (d), and the integrity of the tank shall have
been ensured using one of the following methods:

a. The tank was internally inspected and assessed to ensure that it was
structurally sound and free of corrosion holes prior to installing the cathodic
protection system;
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-221 Upgrading of Existing Ust Systems
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


b. The tank had been installed for less than 10 years and is monitored
monthly for releases in accordance with R18-12-243(D) through (I);

c. The tank had been installed for less than 10 years and was assessed for
corrosion holes by conducting two tightness tests that meet the
requirements of R18-12-243(C). The 1st tightness test shall be conducted
prior to installing the cathodic protection system. The 2nd tightness test
shall be conducted between three and six months following the 1st operation
of the cathodic protection system; or

d. The tank was assessed for corrosion holes by a method that is determined
by the Department to prevent releases in a manner that is no less protective
of human health and the environment than the methods described in
subsections (B)(2)(a) through (c).

3. Tanks upgraded by both internal lining and cathodic protection shall meet
both of the following requirements:

a. The lining is installed in accordance with the requirements of R18-12-233,

b. The cathodic protection system meets the requirements of R18-12-
220(B)(2)(b) through (d).

G. Metal piping that routinely contains regulated substances and is in
contact with the ground shall be cathodically protected in accordance with
the applicable requirements of R18-12-220(C)(2)(b) through (d).

H. Any upgrading by use of corrosion protection described in this Section
shall be accomplished in accordance with the performance standards set
forth in R18-12-281(H).

I. To prevent spilling and overfilling associated with the transfer of a
regulated substance to the UST system, all existing UST systems shall
comply with UST system spill and overfill prevention equipment
requirements specified in R18-12-220(D).

J. Owners or operators shall ensure that one or more of the following
methods of certification, testing, or inspection is used to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this Section by providing a certification
of compliance on the UST Notification Form in accordance with R18-12-
222(D):

1. The installer has been certified by the equipment or system
manufacturers;
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-221 Upgrading of Existing Ust Systems
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


2. The installation has been inspected and certified by a registered
professional engineer with education and experience in UST system
installation, or if required under subsection (D), by the Department;

3. All work listed in the manufacturer's installation checklists has been
completed;

4. The owner has complied with another method for ensuring compliance
with the requirements of this Section that is determined by the Department
to be no less protective of human health and the environment.

K. Owners and operators shall ensure that a certification statement in
accordance with the applicable requirements of R18-12-222(E) is signed by
the installer on the Notification Form prior to submission to the
Department.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-222 Notification Requirements
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-222. Notification Requirements

A. An owner of an UST system shall comply with the notification
requirements of this Section in accordance with those described in A.R.S. §
49-1002.

B. An owner shall submit the most current and complete information on
each UST system at each facility utilizing the Departmental form titled
"Notification for Underground Storage Tanks" ("Notification Form"). An
owner shall submit a separate Notification Form to the Department for each
facility which is owned. Submitted information shall include all of the
following for each UST system:

1. Type of notification specifying one of the following:

a. New facility,

b. Amendment of previous Notification Form,

c. Closure.

2. The name and mailing address of the owner of the UST system;

3. Facility street address and the associated county assessor book, map, and
parcel;

4. Type of owner, specifying whether government, commercial, or private;

5. Whether the UST system is located within Indian country;

6. Facility type;

7. The name and mailing address of the operator of the UST system;

8. Compliance with financial responsibility requirements in accordance with
R18-12-300 through R18-12-325, and the mechanism or mechanisms used
to demonstrate compliance;

9. Facility map including tanks and associated piping in addition to major
structures;

10. Status of each UST system as one of the following:

a. Currently in use,

b. Temporarily out of use,
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-222 Notification Requirements
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


c. Permanently out of use.

11. Date of the UST system installation and date the UST system was first
brought into operation;

12. Estimated total capacity of the tank;

13. Material of tank construction and method of corrosion protection for
each UST system;

14. Date of tank repair or replacement, if tank has been repaired or replaced;

15. Material of piping construction and method of corrosion protection for
each UST system;

16. Date of piping repair or any replacement, if piping has been repaired or
replaced;

17. Type of piping delivery system;

18. Methods of leak detection currently in use for tank and piping;

19. Whether the UST system is connected to an emergency generator;

20. Substance currently or last stored in the UST system in greatest quantity
by volume;

21. If the substance currently or last stored in the UST system is a hazardous
substance, identification of the CERCLA name or Chemical Abstracts Service
number;

22. If the substance currently or last stored in the UST system is a mixture of
substances, identification of the constituents of the mixture;

23. Information on under dispenser containment including construction
material, and date(s) of any repair, replacement or modification.

C. In addition to the information required in subsection (B), if an UST
system is permanently closed, temporarily closed, or if a change-in-service
has occurred, an owner shall provide all of the following:

1. The estimated date the UST system was last used, and the estimated date
the UST system was permanently closed;

2. Identification of the UST system as one of the following:

a. Removed from the ground,
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-222 Notification Requirements
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


b. Closed in the ground and filled with inert solid materials and a
description of those materials,

c. Completed change-in-service and a description of current use,

d. Temporarily closed,

e. Temporarily closed with a request for extension of temporary closure.

3. Whether an UST site assessment was completed;

4. Whether there was evidence of a leak.

D. An owner shall certify under penalty of law that the owner has personally
examined and is familiar with the information submitted in the Notification
Form and all attached documents, and that based either on direct knowledge
or on inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the
information, the owner believes that the submitted information is true,
accurate, and complete. For a new or upgraded UST system, this
certification shall include compliance with all the following requirements:

1. Installation of tanks and piping under R18-12-220(E) and (F);

2. Cathodic protection of steel tanks and piping under R18-12-220(B) and
(C), or R18-12-221(F) through (H);

3. Spill and overfill protection under R18-12-220(D) or R18-12-221(I);

4. Release detection under R18-12-240 through R18-12-245;

5. Financial responsibility under R18-12-300 through R18-12-325.

E. An owner of a new or upgraded UST system shall ensure that the installer
certifies on the Notification Form that to the best information and belief of
the installer the items set forth in subsections (D)(1) through (4) are true
and comply with R18-12-219 through R18-12-221.

F. Any request for an extension of temporary closure shall be made in
accordance with R18-12-270.

G. In addition, an owner of an UST system shall notify the Department
within 30 days after any one of the following occurs:

1. A change in the operator of the UST system;

2. Temporary closure in accordance with R18-12-270;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-222 Notification Requirements
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


3. Return to active service following temporary closure in accordance with
R18-12-270(A);

4. Permanent closure or change-in-service in accordance with R18-12-271
through R18-12-274;

5. A change in the contents of the UST system among the categories of
regulated substances described in subsections (B)(20), (21), or (22);

6. A change in status of financial responsibility in accordance with R18-12-
300 through R18-12-325.

H. In the case of a change of ownership of an UST system, one of the
following shall occur:

1. When a vendor sells an UST system or a tank for use as an UST after May
8, 1986, the vendor shall inform the purchaser, on a form prescribed by the
Department, that the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)
requires owners of certain underground storage tanks to notify the
Department within 30 days of the existence of the tank.

2. When a person transfers ownership of an UST system, both of the
following shall occur:

a. The transferor shall inform the Department in writing of the transfer of its
interest in the UST system including the name and address of the transferor
and transferee, name and telephone number of the contact person for the
transferee and effective date of the transfer. In addition, the transferor shall
advise the transferee of the notification requirements of this Section,
utilizing the form referenced in subsection (G)(1);

b. The transferee shall submit to the Department a completed Notification
Form within 30 days of the transfer of interest.

I. Owners and operators of tanks partially excluded under R18-12-210(C)
shall submit a Notification Form under this Section covering each partially
excluded tank and provide the information in subsections (B)(1) through
(B)(12), (B)(19), and (B)(20) of this Section. Owners and operators of tanks
partially excluded under R18-12-210(C)(4) are not required to provide the
information in subsection (B)(9).

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-230 Spill and Overfill Control (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-230. Spill and Overfill Control

A. Owners and operators shall ensure that releases due to spilling or
overfilling do not occur. Owners and operators shall ensure, before the
transfer is made, that the volume then available in the tank is greater than
the volume of regulated substance to be transferred to the tank. Owners and
operators also shall ensure that the operation is monitored constantly to
prevent overfilling and spilling. Compliance with this subsection shall be
determined in accordance with the performance standards set forth in R18-
12-281(I).

B. Owners and operators shall report, investigate, and clean up any spills
and overfills in accordance with A.R.S. § § 49-1004 and 49-1005 and the
rules promulgated thereunder, including R18-12-251(A) and R18-12-260.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-231 Operation and Maintenance of
    Corrosion Protection (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

§ R18-12-231. Operation and Maintenance of Corrosion
Protection

A. A corrosion protection system shall be operated and maintained to
continuously provide corrosion protection to the metal components of an
UST system which are subject to the corrosion protection requirements of
R18-12-220 and R18-12-221 and to piping which routinely contains
regulated substances and is in contact with the ground.

B. An UST system equipped with cathodic protection systems shall be
inspected for proper operation by a qualified cathodic protection tester.
Owners and operators shall ensure compliance with both of the following
requirements:

1. A cathodic protection system shall be tested within six months of
installation and at least every three years thereafter,

2. The criteria that are used to determine that cathodic protection is
adequate as required by this Section shall be in accordance with the codes of
practice set forth in R18-12-281(J).

C. An UST system with an impressed current cathodic protection system, in
addition to meeting the requirements of subsections (A) and (B) shall be
inspected every 60 days to ensure the equipment is operating in accordance
with its design specifications.

D. For an UST system using cathodic protection, records of the operation of
the cathodic protection shall be maintained in accordance with R18-12-234
to demonstrate compliance with the performance standards in this Section
and R18-12-281(J). These records shall provide the following:

1. The results of testing from the last two inspections required by subsection
(B),

2. The results of the last three inspections required by subsection (C).

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-232 Compatibility (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-232. Compatibility

A. Owners and operators shall use an UST system made of or lined with
materials that are compatible with the substance stored in the UST system.
Compliance with this Section may be determined in accordance with the
code of practice in R18-12-281(K).

B. Owners and operators shall notify the Department at least 30 days prior
to switching to a regulated substance containing greater than 10 percent
ethanol, greater than 20 percent biodiesel, or any blend of isobutanol. In
addition, owners and operators with UST systems storing these regulated
substances shall meet one of the following:

1. Demonstrate compatibility of the UST system (including the tank, piping,
containment sumps, pumping equipment, release detection equipment, spill
equipment, and overfill equipment). Owners and operators may
demonstrate compatibility of the UST system by using one of the following
options:

a. Certification or listing of UST system equipment or components by a
nationally recognized, independent testing laboratory for use with the
regulated substance stored; or

b. Equipment or component manufacturer approval. The manufacturer's
approval shall be in writing, indicate an affirmative statement of
compatibility, specify the range of biofuel blends the equipment or
component is compatible with, and be from the equipment or component
manufacturer; or

2. Use another option determined by the Department to be no less protective
of human health and the environment than the options listed in subsection
(B)(1) of this Section.

C. Owners and operators shall maintain records in accordance with R18-12-
234(B) documenting compliance with subsection (B) of this Section for as
long as the UST system is used to store the regulated substance.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-233 Repairs Allowed (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-233. Repairs Allowed

A. Owners and operators of an UST system shall ensure that repairs will
prevent releases due to structural failure or corrosion as long as the UST
system is used to store regulated substances. The repairs shall meet the
following requirements:

1. Repairs to an UST system shall be properly conducted in accordance with
an applicable code of practice developed by a nationally recognized
association or independent testing laboratory as specified in R18-12-281(L);

2. Repairs to a fiberglass-reinforced plastic tank may be made by the
manufacturer's authorized representative or in accordance with the code of
practice set forth in R18-12-281(M);

3. Any metal pipe sections and fittings that have released a regulated
substance as a result of corrosion or other damage shall be replaced. Non-
corrodible pipe and fittings may be repaired in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications.

B. Repairs to secondary containment areas of tanks and piping used for
interstitial monitoring and to containment sumps used for interstitial
monitoring of piping shall have the secondary containment tested for
tightness according to the manufacturer's instructions, a code of practice
developed by a nationally recognized association or independent testing
laboratory, or according to requirements established by the Department
within 30 days following the date of completion of the repair. All other
repairs to tanks and piping shall be tightness tested in accordance with the
specifications described in R18-12-243(C) and R18-12-244(B) within 30
days following the date of the completion of the repair unless one of the
following procedures is employed:

1. The repaired tank is internally inspected in accordance with a code of
practice developed by a nationally recognized association or an independent
testing laboratory listed in R18-12-281(N);

2. The repaired portion of the UST system is monitored monthly for releases
in accordance with a method specified in R18-12-243(D) through (I); or

3. Another test method is used that is determined by the Department to be
no less protective of human health and the environment than those listed in
subsections (B)(1) and (2).

C. Within six months following the repair of any cathodically protected UST
system, the cathodic protection system shall be tested in accordance with
R18-12-231(B) and (C) to ensure that it is operating properly.
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-233 Repairs Allowed (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


D. Within 30 days following any repair to spill or overfill prevention
equipment, the repaired spill or overfill prevention equipment shall be
tested or inspected, as appropriate, in accordance with R18-12-235 to ensure
it is operating properly.

E. Owners and operators of an UST system shall maintain records of each
repair until the UST system is permanently closed or undergoes a change-in-
service pursuant to R18-12-271.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-234 Reporting and Recordkeeping
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-234. Reporting and Recordkeeping

A. Owners and operators shall submit notifications for all UST systems in
accordance with R18-12-222. Additionally, owners and operators shall
submit the following information to the Department:

1. Reports of all releases including suspected releases according to R18-12-
251, confirmed releases according to R18-12-260, and spills and overfills
according to R18-12-230;

2. Corrective actions planned or taken including initial abatement and site
characterization measures in accordance with R18-12-261, free product
removal according to R18-12-261.02, investigation of soil and ground-water
cleanup according to R18-12-262, and a corrective action plan according to
R18-12-263 and R18-12-263.02;

3. The information required in R18-12-271 before starting permanent
closure or change-in-service;

4. The closure report in accordance with R18-12-271(E) for owners and
operators who are permanently closing or making a change in service to an
UST system.

B. Owners and operators shall maintain all of the following information:

1. A corrosion expert's analysis of site corrosion potential if corrosion
protection equipment is not used under R18-12-211(B), R18-12-220(B)(4) or
R18-12-220(C)(3);

2. Documentation of operation of corrosion protection equipment in
accordance with R18-12-231;

3. Documentation of compatibility for UST systems as required by R18-12-
232;

4. Documentation of UST system repairs in accordance with R18-12-233(E);

5. Documentation of compliance for spill and overfill prevention equipment
and containment sumps used for interstitial monitoring of piping as
required by R18-12-235(B);

6. Documentation of periodic walkthrough inspections as required by R18-
12-236(B);

7. Documentation of compliance with release detection requirements in
accordance with R18-12-245;
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-234 Reporting and Recordkeeping
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


8. Documentation of operator training according to R18-12-237.

C. Unless otherwise arranged with the Department through pre-inspection
communication, owners and operators shall keep the records required by
subsection (B) either:

1. At the UST site and immediately available for inspection by the
Department, or

2. At a readily available alternative site and provide those records for
inspection to the Department upon request within one business day.

D. Unless otherwise required, owners and operators may maintain either
paper or electronic records to demonstrate compliance with this Chapter.
Electronic records shall contain all of the information required for paper
records.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-235 Periodic Testing of Spill Prevention
    Equipment and Containment Sumps Used for Interstitial
     Monitoring of Piping and Periodic Inspection of Overfill
   Prevention Equipment (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                             Edition))
§ R18-12-235. Periodic Testing of Spill Prevention Equipment and
Containment Sumps Used for Interstitial Monitoring of Piping
and Periodic Inspection of Overfill Prevention Equipment

A. Owners and operators of UST systems with spill and overfill prevention
equipment and containment sumps used for interstitial monitoring of piping
shall meet these requirements to ensure the equipment is operating properly
and will prevent releases to the environment:

1. Spill prevention equipment (such as a catchment basin, spill bucket, or
other spill containment device) and containment sumps used for interstitial
monitoring of piping shall prevent releases to the environment by meeting
one of the following:

a. The equipment is double walled and the integrity of both walls is
periodically monitored at a frequency not less than the frequency of the
walkthrough inspections described in R18-12-236. Owners and operators
shall begin meeting subsection (A)(1)(b) of this Section and conduct a test
within 30 days of discontinuing periodic monitoring of this equipment; or

b. The spill prevention equipment and containment sumps used for
interstitial monitoring of piping are tested at least once every three years to
ensure the equipment is liquid tight by using vacuum, pressure, or liquid
testing in accordance with one of the following criteria:

i. Requirements developed by the manufacturer (Note: Owners and
operators may use this option only if the manufacturer has developed
requirements);

ii. Code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or
independent testing laboratory; or

iii. Requirements determined by the Department to be no less protective of
human health and the environment than the requirements listed in
subsections (A)(1)(b)(i) and (ii) of this Section. The Department's "Low
Level Hydrostatic Testing for Underground Storage Tank Containment
Sumps", amended October 9, 2018, may be used to comply with this
subsection (iii) if the system has automatic shutoff of dispenser or
submersible pump, as appropriate, to prevent further regulated substances
from entering the sump.

2. Overfill prevention equipment shall be inspected at least once every three
years. At a minimum, the inspection shall ensure that overfill prevention
equipment is set to activate at the correct level specified in R18-12-220(D)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-235 Periodic Testing of Spill Prevention
      Equipment and Containment Sumps Used for Interstitial
      Monitoring of Piping and Periodic Inspection of Overfill
    Prevention Equipment (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                                     Edition))
and will activate when regulated substance reaches that level. Inspections
shall be conducted in accordance with one of the criteria in subsection
(A)(1)(b)(i)-(iii) of this Section. The following code of practice may be used
to comply with subsections (A)(1)(b) and (A)(2) of this Section: Petroleum
Equipment Institute Publication RP1200-17, "Recommended Practices for
the Testing and Verification of Spill, Overfill, Leak Detection and Secondary
Containment Equipment at UST Facilities".

B. Owners and operators shall begin meeting these requirements as follows:

1. For UST systems in use on or before January 1, 2020, the initial spill
prevention equipment test, containment sump test and overfill prevention
equipment inspection shall be conducted not later than March 1, 2020.

2. For UST systems brought into use after January 1, 2020, these
requirements apply at installation.

3. Owners and operators shall maintain records as follows (in accordance
with R18-12-234 ) for spill prevention equipment, containment sumps used
for interstitial monitoring of piping, and overfill prevention equipment:

a. All records of testing or inspection shall be maintained for three years;
and

b. For spill prevention equipment and containment sumps used for
interstitial monitoring of piping not tested every three years, documentation
showing that the prevention equipment is double walled and the integrity of
both walls is periodically monitored shall be maintained for as long as the
equipment is periodically monitored.

(Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-236 Periodic Operation and
 Maintenance Walkthrough Inspections (Arizona Administrative
                    Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-236. Periodic Operation and Maintenance Walkthrough
Inspections

A. To properly operate and maintain UST systems, owners and operators
shall meet one of the following:

1. Conduct a walkthrough inspection that, at a minimum, checks the
following equipment as specified below:

a. Every 30 days (Exception: spill prevention equipment at UST systems
receiving deliveries at intervals greater than every 30 days may be checked
prior to each delivery):

i. Spill prevention equipment - visually check for damage; remove liquid or
debris; check for and remove obstructions in the fill pipe; check the fill cap
to make sure it is securely on the fill pipe; and, for double walled spill
prevention equipment with interstitial monitoring, check for a leak in the
interstitial area, and

ii. Release detection equipment - check to make sure the release detection
equipment is operating with no alarms or other unusual operating
conditions present; and ensure records of release detection testing are
reviewed and current; and

b. Annually:

i. Containment sumps - visually check for damage, leaks to the containment
area, or releases to the environment; remove liquid (in contained sumps) or
debris; and, for double walled sumps with interstitial monitoring, check for
a leak in the interstitial area, and

ii. Hand held release detection equipment - check devices such as tank gauge
sticks or groundwater bailers for operability and serviceability; or

2. Conduct operation and maintenance walkthrough inspections according
to a standard code of practice developed by a nationally recognized
association or independent testing laboratory that checks equipment
comparable to subsection (A)(1) of this Section; or

3. Conduct operation and maintenance walkthrough inspections developed
by the Department that checks equipment comparable to subsection (A)(1)
of this Section. The following code of practice may be used to comply with
subsection (A)(2) of this Section: Petroleum Equipment Institute RP900-17,
"Recommended Practices for the Inspection and Maintenance of UST
Systems".
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-236 Periodic Operation and
 Maintenance Walkthrough Inspections (Arizona Administrative
                    Code (2021 Edition))

B. Owners and operators shall maintain records (in accordance with R18-12-
234 ) of operation and maintenance walkthrough inspections for one year
from the date of the walkthrough inspection. Records may be on a form
provided by the Department and shall include a list of each area checked,
whether each area checked was acceptable or needed action taken, a
description of actions taken to correct an issue, and delivery records if spill
prevention equipment is checked less frequently than every 30 days due to
infrequent deliveries.

(Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-237 Operator Training (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-237. Operator Training

A. Owners and operators shall provide and document training as provided in
this Section for operators designated under A.R.S. § 49-1083:

1. For class A and B operators, document the name of the trainee, the date
trained, the operator training class completed, the name of the trainer or
examiner if applicable, and the training company name, address, and
telephone number on a form provided by the Director. A copy of a certificate
or other documentation of training, which includes the trainee's name, an
acceptable source of instruction, the date(s) of instruction, and the results of
any examination, may be substituted.

2. Each current class C operator for the facility shall be entered into a log
kept on site legibly showing each operator's name, the date(s) of instruction,
and the source of instruction.

3. The records in subsections (1) and (2) above shall be maintained at the
facility for at least 3 years from the date of training, or off site if they can be
made available to the Director within one business day.

B. Class A operator training shall include all of the following:

1. The requirements associated with notification under section 49-1002,
release detection under section 49-1003, reporting requirements under
section 49-1004, financial responsibility under section 49-1006, closure
under section 49-1008, underground storage tank performance under
section 49-1009, delivery prohibition under section 49-1023, operator
training under section 49-1083, and the rules adopted under those sections,
as applicable.

2. The purpose, methods, and function of:

a. Spill and overfill prevention;

b. Release detection;

c. Corrosion protection;

d. Emergency response;

e. Product and equipment compatibility and demonstration;

f. Temporary closure;

g. Environmental and regulatory consequences of releases; and
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-237 Operator Training (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


3. Class B and class C operator requirements.

C. Class B operator training shall include all of the following:

1. The requirements associated with release detection under section 49-
1003, reporting requirements under section 49-1004, underground storage
tank performance under section 49-1009, delivery prohibition under section
49-1023, and the rules adopted under those sections, as applicable.

2. The purpose, methods, and function of:

a. Operation and maintenance;

b. Spill and overfill prevention;

c. Release detection and related reporting;

d. Corrosion protection;

d. Emergency response;

e. Product and equipment compatibility and demonstration;

f. Reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and inspections;

g. Environmental and regulatory consequences of releases;

h. Training requirements for Class C operators,

D. Class C operator training shall provide individuals the knowledge and
skills to take appropriate action in response to emergencies or alarms caused
by spills or releases from an underground storage tank system, including
procedures for contacting a class A or class B individual and any emergency
responder.

E. The following sources of instruction are acceptable:

1. Training workshops or online training provided through ADEQ;

2. Any training program or comparable examination developed or
administered by an independent organization or recognized authority that
meets the minimum requirements of this Section and includes an evaluation
through testing, a practical demonstration, or another approach acceptable
to the Department;

3. A training program developed and administered in house, if acceptable to
the Department after a review initiated during a site visit. An outline of the
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-237 Operator Training (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


in house operator training program completed shall be available at the
facility or off site if it can be made available to the Director within one
business day.

F. The following training formats are acceptable:

1. Distance learning/internet courses,

2 On-site courses,

3. Classroom and conference style courses

G. Class A, B, and C operators shall be retrained at the following times:

1. Every 3 years;

2. When switching classifications from C to B, from B to A, or from C to A;

3. When changing facilities, unless the equipment is identical, or unless the
operator is already trained for multiple facilities; and

4. Class A and class B operators of UST systems determined by the Director
to be out of compliance under A.R.S § 49-1083(D). At a minimum, the
retraining shall cover each area determined to be out of compliance.

H. Upon request, the Director may excuse retraining under subsection (G)
for good cause.

(Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-240 General Release Detection
 Requirements for All Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code
                        (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-240. General Release Detection Requirements for All
UST Systems

A. Owners and operators of a UST system shall provide a method, or
combination of methods, of release detection that:

1. Can detect a release from any portion of the tank and the connected
underground piping that routinely contains a regulated substance;

2. Is installed and calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions;

3. Is operated and maintained, and electronic and mechanical components
are tested for proper operation, in accordance with one of the following:
manufacturer's instructions; a code of practice developed by a nationally
recognized association or independent testing laboratory; or requirements
determined by the Director to be no less protective of human health and the
environment than the two options in subsections (A)(1) and (A)(2) above. A
test of the proper operation shall be performed at least annually and, at a
minimum, as applicable to the facility, cover the following components and
criteria:

a. Automatic tank gauge and other controllers: test alarm; verify system
configuration; test battery backup;

b. Probes and sensors: inspect for residual buildup; ensure floats move
freely; ensure shaft is not damaged; ensure cables are free of kinks and
breaks; test alarm operability or running condition and communication with
controller;

c. Automatic line leak detector: test operation to meet criteria in R18-12-
244(A) by simulating a leak;

d. Vacuum pumps and pressure gauges: ensure proper communication with
sensors and controller; and

e. Hand-held electronic sampling equipment associated with groundwater
and vapor monitoring: ensure proper operation. Note to subsection (A)(3):
The following code of practice may be used to comply with subsection (A)(3)
of this Section: Petroleum Equipment Institute Publication RP1200-17,
"Recommended Practices for the Testing and Verification of Spill, Overfill,
Leak Detection and Secondary Containment Equipment at UST Facilities".

4. Meets the performance requirements in R18-12-243 or R18-12-244, or
Article 9, as applicable, with any performance claims and their manner of
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-240 General Release Detection
    Requirements for All Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code
                           (2021 Edition))

determination described in writing by the equipment manufacturer or
installer; and

5. For the methods listed in R18-12-243(B), (C), (D), (H), and (I), R18-12-
244(A) and (B), and Article 9, is capable of detecting the leak rate or
quantity specified for that method with a Probability of Detection (PD) of a
release of 0.95 and a Probability of False Alarm (PFA) of 0.05

.

B. When a release detection method operated in accordance with the
performance standards in R18-12-243, R18-12-244, or Article 9 indicates a
release may have occurred, owners and operators shall inform the
Department in accordance with R18-12-251.

C. Any UST system that cannot apply a method of release detection that
complies with the requirements of this Section and R18-12-241 through R18-
12-245 shall complete the closure procedures in R18-12-270 through R18-
12-274.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-241 Release Detection for Petroleum
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-241. Release Detection for Petroleum UST Systems

A. Owners and operators of petroleum UST systems shall provide release
detection for tanks installed on or before January 1, 2009 so that the tanks
are monitored for releases at least once every month using one of the
methods listed in R18-12-243(D) through (I) except that:

1. An UST system that meets the new or upgraded UST system performance
standards of R18-12-220 or R18-12-221, and the monthly inventory control
requirements of R18-12-243(A) may use tank tightness testing conducted in
accordance with R18-12-243(C) at least every five years until 10 years after
the tank was installed; and

2. A tank with a capacity of 550 gallons or less or a tank with a capacity of
551 to 1, 000 gallons that meets the tank diameter criteria in R18-12-243(B)
may use manual tank gauging conducted in accordance with R18-12-243(B)
as a sole method for leak detection.

B. Tanks installed after January 1, 2009, shall be monitored for releases at
least once every month in accordance with R18-12-243(G).

C. Owners and operators of petroleum UST systems shall provide release
detection for underground piping installed on or before January 1, 2009 so
that piping that routinely contains petroleum is monitored for releases in a
manner that meets one of the following requirements:

1. Underground piping that conveys petroleum under pressure shall meet
both of the following requirements:

a. Be equipped with an automatic line leak detector which meets the
requirements of R18-12-244(A);

b. Have an annual line tightness test conducted in accordance with R18-12-
244(B) or have monthly monitoring conducted in accordance with R18-12-
244(C).

2. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, underground piping that
conveys petroleum under suction shall either have a line tightness test
conducted at least every three years in accordance with R18-12-244(B), or
use a monthly monitoring method conducted in accordance with R18-12-
244(C). Release detection is not required for suction piping that is designed
and constructed to meet all of the following standards:

a. The below-grade piping operates at less than atmospheric pressure;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-241 Release Detection for Petroleum
   Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


b. The below-grade piping is sloped so that the contents of the pipe will
drain back into the storage tank if the suction is released;

c. Only one check valve is included in each suction line;

d. The check valve is located directly below and as close as practical to the
suction pump and is capable of being inspected;

e. A method is provided that allows compliance with the requirements of
subsections (B)(2)(a) through (d) to be readily determined.

D. Piping installed or replaced after January 1, 2009 shall meet one of the
following:

1. Pressurized piping shall be monitored for releases at least every 30 days in
accordance with R18-12-243(G) and be equipped with an automatic line leak
detector in accordance with R18-12-244(A);

2. Suction piping shall be monitored for releases at least every 30 days in
accordance with R18-12-243(G). No release detection is required for suction
piping that meets paragraphs (C)(2)(a) through (e) of this Section.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-242 Release Detection for Hazardous
  Substance Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

§ R18-12-242. Release Detection for Hazardous Substance UST
Systems

A. Owners and operators of hazardous substance UST systems shall provide
containment that meets the following requirements and monitor these
systems using R18-12-243(G) at least monthly:

1. Secondary containment systems shall be designed, constructed, and
installed to:

a. Contain regulated substances leaked from the primary containment until
they are detected and removed,

b. Prevent the release of regulated substances to the environment at any
time during the operational life of the UST system,

c. Be checked for evidence of a release at least monthly.

2. Double-walled tanks shall be designed, constructed, and installed to meet
both of the following requirements:

a. Contain a leak from any portion of the inner tank within the outer wall,

b. Detect the failure of the inner wall.

3. External liners, including vaults, shall be designed, constructed, and
installed to meet all of the following requirements:

a. Contain 100% of the capacity of the largest UST system within its
boundary,

b. Prevent the interference of precipitation or groundwater intrusion with
the ability to contain or detect a release of regulated substances,

c. Surround the tank completely so that it is capable of preventing lateral as
well as vertical migration of regulated substances.

4. Underground piping shall be equipped with secondary containment that
satisfies the requirements of this Section (e.g., trench liners, double-walled
pipe). In addition, underground piping that conveys regulated substances
under pressure shall be equipped with an automatic line leak detector in
accordance with R18-12-244(A).

5. For hazardous substance UST systems installed on or before January 1,
2020, methods of release detection other than those described in
subsections (1) through (4) may be used if owners and operators meet all of
the following requirements:
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-242 Release Detection for Hazardous
  Substance Ust Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

a. Demonstrate to the Department that an alternate method can detect a
release of the stored substance as effectively as any of the methods allowed
in R18-12-243(B) through (I) can detect a release of petroleum;

b. Provide information to the Department on effective corrective action
technologies, health risks, and chemical and physical properties of the
stored substance, and the characteristics of the UST site;

c. Obtain approval from the Department in writing to use the alternate
release detection method before the installation and operation of the UST
system.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-243. Methods of Release Detection for Tanks

A. If inventory contro l is used to meet the requirements of R18-12-241, it
shall be used in conjunction with tank tightness testing described in
subsection (C). Inventory control shall be conducted monthly in accordance
with R18-12-281(O) to detect a release of at least 1.0% of flow-through plus
130 gallons on a monthly basis in the following manner:

1. Inventory volume measurements for regulated substance inputs,
withdrawals, and the amount still remaining in the tank are recorded each
operating day;

2. The equipment used is capable of measuring the level of the regulated
substance over the full range of the tank's vertical dimension to the nearest
1/8 of an inch;

3. The regulated substance inputs are reconciled with delivery receipts by
measurement of the tank inventory volume before and after delivery;

4. Deliveries of regulated substances are made through a drop tube that
extends to within one foot of the tank bottom;

5. Dispensing of regulated substances is metered and recorded within the
standards established by the entity with jurisdiction. If no standards are
established, dispensing which meets an accuracy of six cubic inches for every
five gallons of regulated substance withdrawn shall be used;

6. The measurement of any water level in the bottom of the tank is made to
the nearest 1/8 of an inch at least once a month;

7. Inventory control shall not be utilized as the sole method of release
detection.

B. Manual tank gauging used to meet the requirements of R18-12-241 shall
meet all of the following requirements:

1. Tank liquid level measurements are taken at the beginning and ending of a
period equal to the appropriate minimum duration of test in the table below
during which no liquid is added to or removed from the UST system;

2. Level measurements are based on an average of two consecutive stick
readings at both the beginning and ending of the period;

3. The equipment used is capable of measuring the level of regulated
substance over the full range of the tank's vertical dimension to the nearest
1/8 of an inch;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. A release is suspected and subject to the requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1004
and the rules promulgated thereunder if the variation between beginning
and ending measurements exceeds the weekly or monthly standards in the
following table:

                                                           Weekly
                                          Minimum                          Monthly standard
Nominal Tank Capacity                                      standard (1
                                          duration of test                 (average of 4 tests)
                                                           test)
550 gallons or less                       36 hours         10 gallons      5 gallons
551-1, 000 gallons (when tank diameter
                                       44 hours            9 gallons       4 gallons
is 64 inches)
551-1, 000 gallons (when tank diameter
                                       58 hours            12 gallons      6 gallons
is 48 inches)
551-1, 000 gallons (also requires
                                          36 hours         13 gallons      7 gallons
periodic tank tightness testing)
1, 001-2, 000 gallons (also requires
                                          36 hours         26 gallons      13 gallons
periodic tank tightness testing)

5. Manual tank gauging may be used as the sole method of release detection
only for tanks of 550 gallons or less capacity and tanks with a nominal
capacity of 551 to 1, 000 gallons that meet the tank diameter criteria in the
table in subsection (B)(4) of this Section. Manual tank gauging may be used
in place of inventory control in subsection (A) for all other tanks of 551 to 2,
000 gallons. This method shall not be used to meet the requirements of R18-
12-241 for tanks of greater than 2, 000 gallons capacity.

C. Tank tightness testing shall be capable of detecting a 0.1 gallon per hour
leak rate from any portion of the tank that routinely contains a regulated
substance while accounting for the effects of thermal expansion or
contraction of the regulated substance, vapor pockets, tank deformation,
evaporation or condensation, and the location of the water table.

D. Equipment for automatic tank gauging that tests for the loss of regulated
substance and conducts inventory control used to meet the requirements of
R18-12-241 shall meet all of the following requirements:

1. The automatic regulated substance level monitor test shall be performed
at least monthly and be capable of detecting a 0.2 gallon per hour leak rate
from any portion of the tank that routinely contains regulated substance,

2. The automatic tank gauging equipment shall meet the inventory control
(or other test of equivalent performance) requirements of subsection (A),
and
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


3. The test shall be performed with the system operating in one of the
following modes:

a. In-tank static testing conducted at least once monthly; or

b. Continuous in-tank leak detection operating on an uninterrupted basis or
operating within a process that allows the system to gather incremental
measurements to determine the leak status of the tank at least once
monthly.

E. Testing or monitoring for vapors within the soil gas of the excavation zone
used to meet the requirements of R18-12-241 shall be conducted at least
monthly and shall meet all of the following requirements:

1. In the UST excavation zone, the site is assessed to ensure that the leak
detection method will comply with the requirements in subsections (E)(2)
through (6);

2. The leak detection system is constructed and designed so that the number
and positioning of monitoring wells will detect releases into the excavation
zone from any portion of the system which routinely contains a regulated
substance within 30 days from the date of commencement of a release;

3. The stored regulated substance, or a tracer compound placed in the UST
system, will produce a vapor level that is detectable by the monitoring
devices in the monitoring wells within 30 days from the date of
commencement of a release from the UST system;

4. The materials used as backfill will allow diffusion of vapors from releases
into the excavation area such that a release is detected within 30 days from
the date of commencement of a release from the UST system;

5. The groundwater, rainfall, soil moisture, or other known interferences will
not render the measurement of vapors by the monitoring device inoperable
so that a release could go undetected by the monitoring devices in the
monitoring wells for more than 30 days from the date of commencement of
the release from the UST system;

6. The level of background contamination at the site will not interfere with
the method used to detect releases from the tank system;

7. The vapor monitors are designed and operated to detect any significant
increase in concentration above a documented background level of the
regulated substance stored in the tank system, a component or components
of that substance, or a volatile tracer compound placed in the tank system;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


8. Monitoring wells are clearly marked and secured to avoid unauthorized
access and tampering.

F. Testing or monitoring for liquids on the groundwater used to meet the
requirements of R18-12-241 shall be conducted monthly and meet the
following requirements:

1. Within and immediately below the UST excavation zone, the site is
assessed to ensure that the leak detection method will comply with the
requirements in subsections (F)(2) through (7);

2. The leak detection system shall be constructed and designed so that the
number and positioning of monitoring wells or devices will detect releases
into the excavation zone from any portion of the system which routinely
contains a regulated substance;

3. The regulated substance stored is immiscible in water and has a specific
gravity of less than 1;

4. Groundwater is never more than 20 feet from the ground surface and the
hydraulic conductivity of the material between the UST system and the
monitoring wells or devices is not less than 0.01 centimeters per second
(e.g., the soil should consist of gravels, coarse to medium sands, coarse silts
or other permeable materials);

5. Monitoring wells or devices intercept the excavation zone or are as close
to it as is technically feasible;

6. The slotted portion of the monitoring well casing shall be designed to
prevent migration of natural soils or filter pack into the well and to allow
entry of regulated substance on the water table into the well under both high
and low ground-water conditions;

7. Monitoring wells shall be sealed from the ground surface to the top of the
filter pack;

8. The continuous monitoring devices or manual methods used can detect
the presence of at least 1/8 of an inch of free product on top of the
groundwater in the monitoring wells;

9. Monitoring wells are clearly marked and secured to avoid unauthorized
access and tampering.

G. Interstitial monitoring between the UST system and a secondary barrier
immediately around or beneath it which is used to meet the requirements of
R18-12-241 shall be conducted at least monthly and shall be designed,
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


constructed and installed to detect a leak from any portion of the UST
system that routinely contains a regulated substance, and shall meet one of
the following requirements:

1. For double-walled UST systems, the sampling or testing method shall be
able to detect a leak through the inner wall in any portion of the UST system
that routinely contains a regulated substance.

2. For UST systems with a secondary barrier within the excavation zone,
characteristics of the site and system components shall be designed and
constructed to detect a leak between the UST system and the secondary
barrier and shall meet all of the following requirements:

a. The secondary barrier around or beneath the UST system shall be
constructed of synthetic materials which are sufficiently thick and
impermeable to prevent structural weakening of the secondary barrier as a
result of contact with any released regulated substance. The rate of
permeability shall not exceed 10 -6 centimeters per second for the regulated
substance stored. In addition, the secondary barrier shall be capable of
directing any leak to the monitoring point and permit its detection;

b. The barrier is compatible with the regulated substance stored so that a
leak from the UST system will not cause a deterioration of the barrier
allowing a release to pass through undetected;

c. For cathodically protected UST systems, the secondary barrier shall be
installed so that it does not interfere with the proper operation of the
cathodic protection system;

d. The groundwater, soil moisture, or rainfall will not render the testing or
sampling method used inoperative so that a release could go undetected for
more than 30 days;

e. The characteristics of the UST site are assessed to ensure that the
secondary barrier is always above the groundwater and not in a 25-year
flood plain, unless the barrier and monitoring designs are for use under such
conditions;

f. Monitoring wells are clearly marked and secured to avoid unauthorized
access and tampering.

3. For tanks with an internally fitted liner, an automated device shall be able
to detect a leak between the inner wall of the tank and the liner, and the
liner shall be compatible with the substance stored.
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-243 Methods of Release Detection for
       Tanks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


H. Statistical inventory reconciliation. Release detection methods based on
the application of statistical principles to inventory data similar to those
described in R18-12-243(A) shall meet the following requirements:

1. Report a quantitative result with a calculated leak rate;

2. Be capable of detecting a leak rate of 0.2 gallon per hour or a release of
150 gallons within 30 days; and

3. Use a threshold that does not exceed one-half the minimum detectible
leak rate.

I. Any other type of release detection method, or combination of methods,
may be used to meet the requirements of R18-12-241 if all of the following
requirements are met:

1. The monitoring is conducted at least monthly;

2. The Department determines that the method meets either of the following
requirements:

a. The method can detect a 0.2 gallon per hour leak rate or a release of 150
gallons within 30 days with probability of detection and probability of false
alarm in accordance with R18-12-240(A)(4);

b. The owner and operator can demonstrate that the method is able to detect
a release as effectively as any of the methods allowed in subsections (C)
through (H). In comparing methods, the Department shall consider the size
of release that the method can detect and the frequency and reliability with
which it can be detected. If the method is approved, the owner and operator
shall comply with any conditions imposed by the Department on its use to
ensure the protection of human health and the environment.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-244 Methods of Release Detection for
       Piping (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-244. Methods of Release Detection for Piping

A. An automatic line leak detection method for piping used to meet the
requirements of R18-12-241 which alerts the operator to the presence of a
leak by restricting or shutting off the flow of regulated substances through
piping or triggering an audible or visual alarm may be used only if it detects
leaks of three gallons per hour, at 10 pounds per square inch line pressure
within one hour. An annual test of the operation of the leak detector shall be
conducted in accordance with R18-12-240(A)(3);

B. A periodic line tightness test of piping may be used as a method of release
detection for piping for the purpose of meeting the requirements of R18-12-
241 only if it can detect a 0.1 gallon per hour leak rate, at one and one-half
times the operating pressure.

C. Except as described in R18-12-241(A), any of the applicable tank methods
described in R18-12-243(E) through (I) may be used as a method of release
detection for piping for the purpose of meeting the requirements of R18-12-
241 if they are designed to detect a release from any portion of the
underground piping that routinely contains regulated substances.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-245 Release Detection Recordkeeping
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-245. Release Detection Recordkeeping

A. Owners and operators shall maintain records in accordance with R18-12-
234 demonstrating compliance with all applicable requirements of R18-12-
240 through R18-12-244. The following records shall be maintained as
indicated below:

1. All written performance claims pertaining to any release detection system
used, and the manner in which these claims have been justified or tested by
the equipment manufacturer or the installer shall be maintained for five
years from the date of installation. Records of site assessments required
under R18-12-243(E)(1) and (F)(1) shall be maintained for as long as the
methods are used. Records of site assessments shall be signed by a
professional engineer or professional geologist, or equivalent licensed
professional with experience in environmental engineering, hydrogeology,
or other relevant technical discipline acceptable to the Department.

2. Written documentation of all calibration, maintenance, and repair of
release detection equipment permanently located on-site shall be
maintained for at least one year after the servicing work is completed. The
retention period shall start at the date of completion of the servicing work.

B. Any schedules of required calibration and maintenance provided by the
release detection equipment manufacturer shall be maintained for at least
five years from the date of installation.

C. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (D), the results of any
sampling testing, or monitoring shall be maintained for at least one year
from the date of receipt by owners and operators of the results.

D. The following are exceptions to subsection (C):

1. The results of annual operation tests conducted in accordance with R18-
12-240(A)(3) shall be maintained for three years. At a minimum, the results
shall list each component tested, indicate whether each component tested
meets criteria in R18-12-240(A)(3) or needs to have action taken, and
describe any action taken to correct an issue;

2. Passing results of tank tightness testing conducted in accordance with
R18-12-243(C) shall be retained from the date of receipt by owners and
operators of the results until the next test is conducted and the results of
that test are received;

3. Passing results of tank tightness testing, line tightness testing, and vapor
monitoring using a tracer compound placed in the tank system conducted in
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-245 Release Detection Recordkeeping
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


accordance with R18-12-952 D)(2)(b) shall be retained until the next test is
conducted; and

4. Failing results from subsections (D)(2) and (D)(3) above shall be retained
for one year after the next test is conducted for which a passing result is
received.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-250 Applicability and Scope (Arizona
                 Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-250. Applicability and Scope

A. Release reporting and corrective action. Except for a release from an UST
system excluded by R18-12-210(B), or for the corrective action requirements
of R18-12-260 through R18-12-264.01 for a release subject to Subtitle C
corrective action requirements in Section 3004(u) of RCRA, as amended,
R18-12-250 through R18-12-264.01 apply to a release or suspected release
discovered:

1. On or after August 20, 2002; or

2. Before August 20, 2002, but only for those sections of R18-12-250
through R18-12-264.01 with required activities not initiated by August 20,
2002.

B. No supersedence. Nothing in R18-12-250 through R18-12-264.01
supersedes any of the following

1. Immediate reporting to the National Response Center and to the Arizona
Emergency Response Commission within the Arizona Department of
Environmental Quality, under CERCLA, and SARA Title III;

2. A CAP submitted to the Department under 40 CFR 280.66 before August
20, 2002 and subsequently approved

.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-251 Suspected Releases; Secondary
Containment Leaks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-251. Suspected Releases; Secondary Containment Leaks

A. 24 hour notifications. An owner or operator shall notify the Department,
within 24 hours of either of the following:

1. Discovery of a suspected release, except for:

a. A spill or overfill of 25 gallons or less of petroleum, or a hazardous
substance that is less than its reportable quantity under CERCLA, contained
and cleaned up within 24 hours, or

b. Monitoring results, including investigation of an alarm, from a release
detection method required under R18-12-241, R18-12-242 or R18-12-243(G)
that indicate a release may have occurred if one of the following is true:

i. The monitoring device is found to be defective, and is immediately
repaired, recalibrated or replaced, and additional monitoring does not
confirm the initial result; or

ii. The leak is contained in the secondary containment and:

(1) Except as provided for in R18-12-243(G)(2)(d), any liquid in the
interstitial space not used as part of the interstitial monitoring method (for
example, brine filled) is immediately removed, and

(2) Any defective system equipment or component is immediately repaired
or replaced; or

iii. In the case of inventory control described in R18-8-243(A), a second
month of data does not confirm the initial result or the investigation
determines no release has occurred; or

iv. The alarm was investigated and determined to be a non-release event (for
example, from a power surge or caused by filling the tank during release
detection testing).

2. Discovery of liquid in the interstitial space of secondarily contained
systems unless the leak is contained in the secondary containment and all of
the following are true:

a. The system equipment or component is found not to be releasing
regulated substances to the environment;

b. Any defective system equipment or component is immediately repaired or
replaced; and
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-251 Suspected Releases; Secondary
Containment Leaks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


c. For secondarily contained systems, except as provided for in R18-12-
243(G)(2)(d), any liquid in the interstitial space not used as part of the
interstitial monitoring method (for example, brine filled) is immediately
removed.

B. 24 hour notification content. The notification shall identify the:

1. Individual notifying the Department;

2. UST involved and the reason for notifying the Department;

3. Facility involved;

4. Owner and the operator of the UST facility; and

5. Investigation and containment actions taken as of the date of the
notification.

C. Requirement to investigate suspected releases. Within 60 calendar days
from the suspected release discovery date or the suspected release
notification date, whichever is earlier, an owner or operator shall complete
the investigation requirements of this subsection and confirm whether the
suspected release is a release. The investigation shall include:

1. Tightness tests of the tank and all connected piping meeting the
requirements of R18-12-243(C) and R18-12-244(B), or, as appropriate,
secondary containment testing as described in R18-12-233(B). The tests
shall determine whether a leak exists in that portion of the tank that
routinely contains product, or the attached delivery piping, or whether a
breach of either wall of the secondary containment has occurred. Further
investigation is required if the results of the tightness tests indicate that the
system is either not tight or contaminated media is the basis for suspecting a
release.

2. If further investigation is required under subsection (1), a site check
meeting the requirements of this subsection shall be performed. The owner
or operator shall measure for the presence of a release where contamination
is likely to be present and shall consider:

a. The nature of the regulated substance;

b. The type of initial alarm or cause for suspicion;

c. The type of backfill;

d. The depth to groundwater; and
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-251 Suspected Releases; Secondary
Containment Leaks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


e. Other factors appropriate for identifying the presence and source of the
release.

D. Interstice Leak or Release Confirmation. If the testing confirms a leak
into the interstice or a release, the owner or operator shall repair, replace,
upgrade or close the UST system. In addition, if a release is confirmed, the
owner or operator shall notify the Department as required by R18-12-
260(A), cease further compliance with this Section, and perform corrective
actions under R18-12-260 through R18-12-264.01

E. 14 day report. The owner or operator shall submit a written status report,
on a form provided by the Department, within 14 calendar days after the
suspected release discovery date or the suspected release notification date,
whichever is earlier. If the suspected release is confirmed to be a release
within the 14 day period, the 14 day report is satisfied when the report
required by R18-12-260(C) is submitted. If known on the date the 14 day
report is submitted, an owner or operator shall identify the:

1. UST that is the source of the suspected release;

2. Nature of the suspected release;

3. Regulated substance suspected to be released; and

4. Initial response to the suspected release.

F. 90 day report. If the suspected release is not confirmed to be a release the
owner or operator shall submit a written report, on a form provided by the
Department, within 90 calendar days after the suspected release discovery
date or suspected release notification date, whichever is earlier, showing
that the investigation has been completed and a release does not exist.
Unless previously submitted, the 90 day report shall identify the:

1. UST suspected to be the source of the release;

2. Nature of the suspected release;

3. Regulated substance suspected to be released;

4. Response to the suspected release;

5. Repair, recalibration, or replacement of a monthly monitoring device
described in R18-12-243(D) through (H) or R18-12-244(C), and any repair
or replacement of faulty UST system equipment, including any piping, that
may have been the cause of the suspected release;
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-251 Suspected Releases; Secondary
Containment Leaks (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


6. Results of any tightness test conducted under subsection (C)(1);

7. Person, if the site check described in subsection (C)(2) was not performed,
having direct knowledge of the circumstances of the suspected release who
observed contaminated media during the discovery or investigation.

8. Laboratory analytical results on samples collected during the site check
described in subsection (C)(2); and

9. Site plan showing the location of the suspected release and site check
sample collection locations.

G. Investigation of suspected releases required by the Department. If the
Department becomes aware of an on- or off-site impact of a regulated
substance, the owner or operator shall be notified and may be required,
based on an assessment of site specific information, to perform an
investigation under subsection (C). If an investigation is required, the
Department shall describe the type of impact and the rationale for its
decision that the UST system may be the source of the impact.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-252 Investigation Due to Off-Site
      Impacts (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-252. Investigation Due to Off-Site Impacts

When required by the Department, owners and operators of UST systems
shall follow the procedures in R18-12-250 to determine if the UST system is
the source of off-site impacts. These impacts include the discovery of
regulated substances (such as the presence of free product or vapors in soils,
basements, sewer and utility lines, and nearby surface and drinking waters)
that has been observed by the Department or brought to its attention by
another party.

(Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-260 Release Notification, and
      Reporting (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-260. Release Notification, and Reporting

A. 24 hour release notification. An owner or operator shall notify the
Department within 24 hours after the release confirmation date of the
following:

1. A release of a regulated substance;

2. A spill or overfill of petroleum that results in a release exceeding 25
gallons, or causes a sheen on nearby surface water;

3. A spill or overfill of petroleum resulting in a release of 25 gallons or less
that is not contained and cleaned up within 24 hours;

4. A spill or overfill of a hazardous substance that equals or exceeds its
reportable quantity under CERCLA; and

5. A spill or overfill of a hazardous substance that is less than the reportable
quantity under CERCLA, not contained and cleaned up within 24 hours.

B. Release notification information. If known on the date that the 24 hour
notification is submitted, an owner or operator shall notify the Department
under subsection (A) and shall include the:

1. Individual providing notification;

2. UST involved and the reason for confirming the release;

3. Facility involved;

4. Owner and operator of the facility involved; and

5. Investigations, containment, and corrective actions taken as of the date
and time of the notice.

C. 14 day report. An owner or operator shall submit a report, on a form
provided by the Department, within 14 calendar days after the release
confirmation date. The report shall include:

1. The nature of the release, and the regulated substance and the estimated
quantity released;

2. The elapsed time over which the release occurred;

3. A copy of the results of any tightness test, meeting the requirements of
R18-12-243(C) or R18-12-244(B), performed to confirm the release;
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-260 Release Notification, and
     Reporting (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. Laboratory analytical results of samples demonstrating the release
confirmation; and

5. The initial response and corrective actions taken as of the date of the
report and anticipated actions to be taken within the first 90 calendar days
after the release confirmation date.

D. An owner or operator shall repair, replace, upgrade, or close the UST
system that is the source of the release, as required under this Article and
the owner shall notify the Department as required by R18-12-222.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261 Initial Response, Abatement, and
    Site Characterization (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                            Edition))

§ R18-12-261. Initial Response, Abatement, and Site
Characterization

A. 24 hour initial response. An owner or operator shall begin response
actions within 24 hours of the release confirmation date to prevent any
further release, and identify and mitigate fire, explosion, and vapor hazards.

B. 60 day initial abatement. An owner or operator shall begin the following
initial abatement measures as soon as practicable, but not later than 60
calendar days of the release confirmation date:

1. Removal of as much of the regulated substance from the UST system as is
necessary to prevent a further release;

2. Visually inspect for and mitigate further migration of any aboveground
and exposed belowground release into surrounding soils and surface water;

3. Continue to monitor and mitigate any fire and safety hazards posed by
vapors or free product; and

4. Investigate for the possible presence of free product and, if found, initiate
the requirements of R18-12-261.02.

C. Initial site characterization required. An owner or operator shall develop,
from readily available sources, initial site characterization information on
site-specific geology, hydrology, receptors, potential sources of the
contamination, artificial pathways for contaminant migration, and
occupancies of the facility and surrounding area. Information on any
discovered free product shall be gathered and a site check, meeting the
requirements of R18-12-251(C)(3), shall be performed, unless conducted as
part of the investigation of a suspected release.

D. 90 day report. An owner or operator shall submit an initial site
characterization report to the Department, on a Department provided form,
within 90 calendar days after the release confirmation date. The report shall
include the:

1. Nature of the release, the regulated substance released, and the estimated
quantity of the release;

2. The estimated time period when the release occurred;

3. Initial response and abatement actions described in subsections (A) and
(B), and any corrective actions taken as of the date of the submission;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261 Initial Response, Abatement, and
    Site Characterization (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                            Edition))

4. Estimated or known site-specific lithology, depth to bedrock, and
groundwater depth, flow direction, and quality. The date and source of the
information shall be included;

5. Location, use, and identification of all wells registered with Arizona
Department of Water Resources, and other wells on and within one-quarter
mile of the facility;

6. Location and type of receptors, other than wells, on and within one-
quarter mile of the facility;

7. Current occupancy and use of the facility and properties immediately
adjacent to the facility;

8. Data on known sewer and utility lines, basements, and other artificial
subsurface structures on and immediately adjacent to the facility;

9. Copies of any report of any tightness test meeting the requirements under
R18-12-243(C) or R18-12-244(B), performed during the investigation of the
suspected release;

10. Laboratory analytical results of samples analyzed and received as of the
date of the report;

11. Site plan showing the location of the facility property boundaries, release,
sample collections for samples with laboratory analytical results submitted
with the report, and identified receptors;

12. Current LUST site classification form described in R18-12-261.01(E);

13. Information on any free product discovered under R18-12-261.02; and

14. Results of any site check required under subsection (C).

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261.01 Lust Site Classification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-261.01. LUST Site Classification

A. LUST site analysis. An owner or operator shall determine a LUST site
classification by analyzing current and future threats to public health and
the environment based on site-specific information known at the time of the
determination.

B. LUST site classification factors. The owner or operator shall determine
any threats to public health and the environment by addressing the
following:

1. Presence and levels of vapors;

2. Presence of free product;

3. Extent of contamination;

4. Type and location of receptor;

5. Impacts and reasonably foreseeable impacts to current and future
receptors; and

6. Estimated time between the date of the analysis and the impact to
receptors.

C. LUST site classification. An owner or operator shall select a classification
for the LUST site from one of the following, based on the analysis performed
under subsection (B):

1. Classification 1: immediate threats;

2. Classification 2: short term threats from impacts that are reasonably
foreseeable at or within two years;

3. Classification 3: long term threats from impacts that are reasonably
foreseeable after two years; or

4. Classification 4: contamination exists, but no demonstrable long term
threat has been identified, or information indicates the site cannot be
otherwise classified under this subsection.

D. LUST site classification form submission. An owner or operator shall
submit to the Department the LUST site classification form described in
subsection (E) as required by R18-12-260 through R18-12-264.01, and when
LUST site conditions indicate the classification has changed, or if
contamination has migrated, or is anticipated to migrate, to a property
where the owner or operator does not have access.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261.01 Lust Site Classification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


E. LUST site classification form contents. An owner or operator shall submit
the LUST site classification, on a Department provided form, that includes
the following information:

1. Date of preparation;

2. LUST number assigned to the release that is the subject of the
classification;

3. The status of corrective action activities on the date that the classification
form is submitted;

4. The regulated substance and the estimated volume (in gallons) released,
the UST facility identification number from the notification form described
in R18-12-222, the component of the UST where the release occurred, and
whether the release is a spill or overfill;

5. The factors considered in determining the LUST site classification
described in subsection (B);

6. The distance between the identified contamination and each receptor;

7. The estimated time, from the date on the form until impact to a receptor;
and

8. The classification of the LUST site.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261.02 Free Product (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-261.02. Free Product

A. Free product investigation. An owner or operator shall investigate for free
product if site specific information indicates the potential existence for free
product, and if discovered, determine its extent.

B. Free product removal. If free product is discovered, the owner or operator
shall:

1. Begin removal as soon as practicable;

2. Remove free product in a manner minimizing the spread of
contamination using recovery and disposal techniques based on site-specific
hydrologic, geologic, and demographic conditions;

3. Comply with local, state, and federal laws or regulations when treating,
discharging, or disposing recovery byproducts;

4. Use abatement of free product migration as a minimum objective for the
design of the free product removal system; and

5. Handle any flammable product in a safe and competent manner to
prevent fire and explosion.

C. Forty-five day free product report. If free product is discovered, the owner
or operator shall submit a status report, on a Department provided form,
within 45 calendar days of free product discovery and with subsequent
reports required by the Department. The status report shall contain the
following information known at the time of the report:

1. The name of the person(s) responsible for implementing the free product
removal measures;

2. The estimated quantity, type, extent and thickness of free product
observed or measured in wells, boreholes, and excavations;

3. A description of free product removal measures taken;

4. A description of any discharge that will take place during the recovery
operation and where this discharge will be located;

5. A description of the type of treatment applied to and the effluent quality
expected from any discharge;

6. The steps that have been or are being taken to obtain necessary permits
for any discharge; and
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-261.02 Free Product (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


7. The disposition of the recovered free product.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-262 Lust Site Investigation (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-262. LUST Site Investigation

A. Requirement to investigate. The owner or operator shall investigate a
release at and from a LUST site to determine the full extent of the release of
regulated substances and shall:

1. Determine the full extent of contamination;

2. Identify physical, natural, and artificial features at or surrounding the
LUST site that are current or potential pathways for contamination
migration;

3. Identify current or potential receptors; and

4. Obtain any additional data necessary to determine site-specific corrective
action standards and to justify the selection of remedial alternatives to be
used in responses to contaminated soil, surface water, and groundwater.

B. Completion of investigation activities. The owner or operator shall
complete the investigation activities described in subsection (A) and submit
the report described in subsection (D) within a time established by the
Department.

C. Determining the full extent of contamination. The owner or operator shall
determine, within each contaminated medium, the full extent, location, and
distribution of concentrations of each chemical of concern stored in the UST
over its operational life. The full extent of contamination shall be
determined upon receipt of laboratory analytical results delineating the
vertical and lateral extent of the contamination.

D. LUST site characterization report. The owner or operator shall submit a
report of the information developed during the investigation required in
subsection (A), in a format acceptable to the Department. The report shall
be submitted within the time established in subsection (B). The report
submitted under this subsection shall contain the following minimum
information:

1. A site history summary;

2. Information on bedrock, if encountered during the investigation;

3. The hydrologic characteristics and uses of groundwater and surface water
of the local area;

4. A concise description of factors considered in determining the full extent
of contamination;
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-262 Lust Site Investigation (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


5. A concise summary of the results of the investigation including a
conceptual site model;

6. A site vicinity map, site location map and a site plan;

7. A tabulation of all field screening and laboratory analytical results and
water level data acquired during the investigation;

8. Laboratory sample analytical and associated quality assurance and quality
control reports and chain-of-custody forms;

9. A tabulation of all wells registered with the Arizona Department of Water
Resources, and other wells located within one-quarter mile of the facility
property boundary;

10. The lithologic logs for all subsurface investigations; and

11. The as-built construction diagram of each well installed as part of this
investigation.

E. Conditions for approval of the site characterization report. The
Department shall approve the site characterization report if the Department
determines it meets the requirements of this Section and A.R.S. § 49-1005,
and contains the information required by subsection (D), or if the
Department has enough information to make an informed decision to
approve the report.

F. Notice of decision. The Department shall determine if the conditions in
subsection (E) are or are not satisfied and either approve or not approve the
report and notify the owner or operator in writing. The notification shall
include any conditions on which the approval or non-approval is based and
an explanation of the process for resolving disagreements under A.R.S. § 49-
1091.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263 Remedial Response (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-263. Remedial Response

A. Remedial response not required. An owner or operator shall comply with
R18-12-263.03 for LUST case closure when contaminant concentrations in
each contaminated medium, at the point of compliance, are documented to
be at or below the corrective action standard under R18-12-263.01(A)(1).

B. Remedial response required. The owner or operator shall remediate
contamination at and from the LUST site as required by this Section.
Remediation activities shall continue until:

1. Contaminant concentration of any chemical of concern, in each
contaminated medium, at the point of compliance, is documented to be at or
below the corrective action standard determined in R18-12-263.01;

2. The requirements for LUST case closure in R18-12-263.03 are completed
and approved by the Department; or

3. The requirements for groundwater LUST case closure in R18-12-263.04
are met and approved by the Department.

C. Remedial responses that may require a CAP. The Department may
request the owner or operator, or the owner or operator may voluntarily
submit a CAP, meeting the requirements of this Section, any time after
submission of the report in R18-12-261(D). If a CAP is requested, it shall be
submitted within 120 calendar days of the owner or operator's receipt of the
request, or a longer period of time established by the Department. The
Department may request a CAP based on the following:

1. Soil or groundwater contamination extends, or has potential to extend, off
the facility property and the LUST site is classification 3 in R18-12-
261.01(C);

2. Free product extends off the facility property; and

3. Site-specific conditions indicate a potential level of threat to public health
and the environment that is equal to or exceeds the threat in subsections (1)
and (2). In determining the extent of threat to public health and the
environment, the Department shall consider:

a. The nature of the regulated substance and the location, volume, and
distribution of concentrations of chemicals of concern in soil, surface water,
and groundwater;

b. The presence and location of known receptors potentially impacted by the
release; and
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263 Remedial Response (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


c. The presence of complete exposure pathways.

D. Remedial responses that require a CAP. At any time after Department
approval of the report described in R18-12-261(D), the Department shall
request that the owner or operator submit a CAP meeting the requirements
of this Section within 120 calendar days, or a longer period of time
established by the Department, if any of the following exist:

1. The LUST site is classification 1 or 2 in R18-12-261.01(C);

2. The owner or operator proposes a corrective action standard for
groundwater or surface water under a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation, described
in R18-12-263.01;

3. The owner or operator proposes a corrective action standard for soil
under a Tier 3 evaluation, and the point of compliance extends beyond a
facility property boundary; or

4. The intended response or remediation technology involves discharge of a
pollutant either directly to an aquifer or the land surface or the vadose zone.
For purposes of this subsection, the term pollutant has the definition at
A.R.S. § 49-201.

E. Determination of remediation response. The owner or operator shall
choose a remediation technology based on the corrective action
requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1005(D) and (E), and the following:

1. Local, state, and federal requirements associated with the technology;

2. Reduction of toxicity, mobility, or volume;

3. Long-term effectiveness and permanence;

4. Short-term effectiveness; and

5. Ability to implement the corrective action standard for each chemical of
concern, in each contaminated medium, including considering the results
presented in the site characterization report, ease of initiation, operation
and maintenance of the technology, and public response to any
contamination residual to or resulting from the technology.

F. On-site derived waste. Nothing in this subsection shall supersede more
stringent requirements for storage, treatment, or disposal of on-site derived
waste imposed by local, state or federal governments. An owner or operator
meeting the requirements of this subsection is deemed to have met the
exemption provisions in the definition of solid waste at A.R.S. § 49-701.01
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263 Remedial Response (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


for petroleum contaminated soil stored or treated on-site. The owner or
operator shall prevent and remedy hazards posed by derived waste resulting
from investigation or response activities under this Article and shall.

1. Contain on-site derived waste in a manner preventing the migration of
contaminants into subsurface soil, surface water, or groundwater
throughout the time the derived waste remains on-site, and shall:

a. Restrict access to contaminated areas by unauthorized persons; and

b. Maintain the integrity of any containment system during placement,
storage, treatment, or removal of the derived waste;

2. Label on-site derived waste stored or treated in stockpiles, drums, tanks,
or other vessels in a manner consistent with A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 4,
Article 9 and the rules made under that Article; and

3. Treat on-site derived waste to the applicable corrective action standard in
R18-12-263.01 if the derived waste is to be returned to the on-site
subsurface.

G. Periodic site status report. After approval of the site characterization
report, the owner or operator shall submit a site status report, on a form
provided by the Department, based on site-specific conditions. The report
shall be submitted as requested by the Department, or by the time requested
in the CAP under R18-12-263.02. The owner or operator shall continue to
submit a site status report until the Department approves a LUST case
closure report under R18-12-263.03(F)(1). The report shall:

1. Identify each type of remedial corrective action technology being
employed;

2. Provide the date each remedial corrective action technology became
operational;

3. Provide the results of monitoring and laboratory analysis of collected
samples for each contaminated medium received since the last report was
submitted to the Department;

4. Provide a site plan that shows the current location of the components of
any installed remediation technology including monitoring and sample
collection locations for data collected and reported in subsection (G)(3);

5. Estimate the amount of time that must pass until response activities,
including remediation and verification monitoring, will demonstrate that
the concentration of each chemical of concern is at or below the corrective
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263 Remedial Response (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


action standard determined for that chemical of concern in the specific
contaminated medium; and

6. Provide the current LUST site classification form described in R18-12-
261.01(E).

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605,
effective February 2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25
A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-263.01. Risk-based Corrective Action Standards

A. Conducting risk-based tier evaluation and proposing the applicable
corrective action standard. The owner or operator shall propose and
document, as described in subsection (B), each applicable risk-based
corrective action standard, using the procedures of this subsection. The
owner or operator shall ensure that each corrective action standard meets
the corrective action requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1005(D) and (E), and is
consistent with soil remediation standards and restrictions on property use
in A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 1, Article 4 and the rules made under each. In
determining the proposed corrective action standard, the owner or operator
shall first perform a Tier 1 evaluation. The owner or operator may
subsequently perform progressively more site-specific, risk-based tier
evaluations (Tier 2 or Tier 3) after considering the comparative differences
in input parameters, the cost effectiveness in conducting both the additional
evaluation and remediation to the next tier corrective action standard, and
the cumulative estimate of risk to public health and the environment.

1. For a Tier 1 evaluation, the owner or operator shall:

a. Base assumptions on conservative scenarios where all potential receptors
are exposed to the maximum concentration of each chemical of concern in
each contaminated medium detected in contamination at and from the
LUST site;

b. Assume that all exposure pathways are complete;

c. Use the assumed point of exposure at the source or the location of the
maximum concentration as the point of compliance;

d. Compare the maximum concentration of each chemical of concern in each
contaminated medium at the point of compliance with the applicable Tier 1
corrective action standard in subsections (A)(1)(e) through (A)(1)(j);

e. For soil, use the applicable corrective action standard in R18-7-203(A)(1)
and (2) and (B);

f. For surface water, use the applicable corrective action standard in R18-11-
112 or Appendix A (18 A.A.C. 11, Article 1);

g. For groundwater, use the applicable corrective action standard in R18-11-
406;

h. For contaminated groundwater that is demonstrated to discharge or
potentially discharge to surface water, use the applicable corrective action
standard in R18-11-108, R18-11-112, or Appendix A (18 A.A.C. 11, Article 1);
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


i. If a receptor is or has the potential to be impacted, for those chemicals of
concern in soil or surface water with no numeric standard established in rule
or statute, use a corrective action standard consistent with R18-7-206 or
R18-11-108, as applicable, using updated, peer-reviewed scientific data
applying those equations and methodologies used to formulate the numeric
standards established in R18-7-203(A)(2) or Appendix A (18 A.A.C. 11,
Article 1), or for leachability and protection of the environment, a
concentration determined on the basis of methods approved by the
Department; and

j. If a public or private water supply well is or has the potential to be
impacted, for those chemicals of concern in groundwater with no numeric
water quality standard established in rule or statute, use a corrective action
standard consistent with R18-11-405, using updated, peer-reviewed
scientific data applying those equations and methodologies used to
formulate the numeric standards established in R18-11-406.

2. For a Tier 2 evaluation the owner or operator shall:

a. Apply site-specific data to the same equations used to develop the Tier 1
corrective action standard, or, in the case of volatilization from subsurface
soil, a Department-approved equation that accounts for the depth of
contamination;

b. For those chemicals of concern with no numeric standard established in
statute or rule, use a corrective action standard based on updated, peer-
reviewed scientific data, and provided through environmental regulatory
agencies and scientific organizations;

c. Use Department-approved values for equation parameters, if the values
are different than those used in Tier 1 or not obtained through site-specific
data;

d. Eliminate exposure pathways that are incomplete due to site-specific
conditions, or institutional or engineering controls, from continued
evaluation in this tier;

e. Use as the point of compliance a location between the source and the
point of exposure for the nearest known or potential on-site receptor, or the
nearest downgradient facility property boundary, whichever is the nearest to
the source;

f. Use representative concentrations of chemicals of concern that are the
lesser of the 95% upper confidence level or maximum concentration in the
contaminated medium at the point of compliance;
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


g. Use as the Tier 2 corrective action standard, a concentration determined
under subsections (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(c), R18-7-206, R18-11-108, and
R18-11-405; and

h. Compare the representative concentration of each chemical of concern, in
each contaminated medium, at the point of compliance with the proposed
Tier 2 corrective action standard, to determine if remediation is required.

3. For a Tier 3 evaluation the owner or operator shall:

a. Apply more site-specific data than required in the development of Tier 2
corrective action standards in alternative and more sophisticated equations
appropriate to site-specific conditions. The owner or operator shall use
equations and methodology of general consensus within the scientific
community that is published in peer-reviewed professional journals,
publications of standards, and other literature;

b. Use the nearest known or potential receptor as the point of exposure;

c. Use as the point of compliance the point of exposure or some location
between the source and the point of exposure, regardless of the facility
boundary;

d. Use representative concentrations that are the actual or modeled
concentrations in the medium of concern at the point of compliance;

e. Use as the Tier 3 corrective action standard a concentration consistent
with subsections (A)(3)(a) through (A)(3)(d);

f. Compare the representative concentration of each chemical of concern in
each contaminated medium at the point of compliance with the Tier 3
corrective action standard to determine if remediation is required; and

g. Choose the remedial action upon completion of the Tier 3 evaluation that
will result in concentrations of chemicals of concern presenting a hazard
index no greater than 1 and a cumulative excess lifetime cancer risk between
1 x 10-6 and 1 x 10-4.

4. All risk-based corrective action standards proposed under the tier
evaluations in subsections (A)(1) through (3) are based on achieving similar
levels of protection of public health and the environment. For Tier 2 and
Tier 3 evaluations, a cumulative risk assessment is warranted if multiple
pathways of exposure are present, or reasonably anticipated, and one or
more of the following conditions impacts or may impact current or future
receptors:
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


a. More than 10 carcinogens are identified;

b. More than one class A carcinogen is identified;

c. Any non-carcinogen has a hazard quotient exceeding 1/nth of the hazard
index of 1, where n represents the total number of non-carcinogens
identified; or

d. More than 10 non-carcinogens are identified.

B. Documentation of tier evaluation. The owner or operator shall document
each tier evaluation performed in response to contaminated soil, surface
water and groundwater. The owner or operator shall prepare each
evaluation using a Department provided format and complying with this
subsection.

1. For a Tier 1 evaluation the owner or operator shall provide the following
information:

a. Each chemical of concern detected in the contamination at and from the
LUST site;

b. Each medium contaminated, identified as soil, surface water, or
groundwater;

c. The maximum concentration of each chemical of concern for each
contaminated medium.

d. The current and future use of the facility and surrounding properties;

e. Each receptor evaluated;

f. The Tier 1 corrective action standard for each chemical of concern for each
contaminated medium; and

g. The proposed corrective actions for each chemical of concern that exceeds
the Tier 1 corrective action standard.

2. For the Tier 2 evaluation the owner or operator shall provide the following
information:

a. Each chemical of concern evaluated;

b. Each medium contaminated, identified as surficial soil, subsurface soil,
surface water, or groundwater;
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


c. The representative concentration of each chemical of concern for each
contaminated medium;

d. A detailed description of the current and future use of the facility and
surrounding properties;

e. The point of exposure;

f. The point of compliance;

g. The revised conceptual site model;

h. Parameters necessary to utilize the leachability equations, if groundwater
is or may be impacted by the release, published in federal and state peer-
reviewed professional journals, publications of standards, or other literature
accepted within the scientific community;

i. Identification and justification for alternate assumptions or site-specific
information used in place of the default assumptions of the Tier 1 evaluation,
or used in a Department-approved model under subsection (A)(2) for
subsurface volatilization;

j. Any supporting calculations and reference citations used in the
development of Tier 2 corrective action standards;.

k. A table of the calculated Tier 2 corrective action standards;

l. A description of any institutional or engineering controls to be
implemented; and

m. Proposed corrective actions for chemical of concerns that exceeds a Tier
2 corrective action standard.

3. For the Tier 3 evaluation the owner or operator shall provide the following
information:

a. Each chemical of concern evaluated;

b. Each medium contaminated, identified as surficial soil, subsurface soil,
surface water, or groundwater;

c. The representative concentration of each chemical of concern for each
contaminated medium;

d. A detailed description of the current and future use of the facility and
surrounding properties, including a demonstration of the current and
foreseeable use of groundwater within one-quarter mile of the source;
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


e. The point of exposure;

f. The point of compliance;

g. A revised conceptual site model;

h. Identification and justification for alternate assumptions, methodology or
site-specific information used in place of the assumptions for the Tier 2
evaluation;

i. Any supporting calculations and reference citations used in the
development of Tier 3 corrective action standards;

j. Results and validation of modeling for soil leaching, groundwater plume
migration, and surface water hydrology;

k. A table of the calculated Tier 3 corrective action standards;

l. Risk characterization, and cumulative lifetime excess cancer risk, and
hazard index for current and potential receptors for all chemicals of concern
in all contaminated media;

m. A description of any institutional or engineering controls to be
implemented; and

n. Proposed corrective actions for chemical of concern that exceeds a Tier 3
corrective action standard.

4. When a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation relies on the use of an institutional or
engineering control in establishing a corrective action standard, the owner
or operator shall:

a. Demonstrate that the institutional or engineering control is legal, and
technically and administratively feasible;

b. Record any institutional or engineering control with the deed for all
properties impacted by the release;

c. Communicate the terms of the institutional or engineering control to
current and future lessees of the property, and to those parties with rights of
access to the property; and

d. Ensure that the terms of the institutional or engineering control be
maintained throughout any future property transactions until
concentrations of chemicals of concern meet a corrective action standard at
the point of compliance that does not rely on the use of the institutional or
engineering control. For the institutional or engineering control to be
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
     Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


implemented, the owner or operator shall prepare an institutional or
engineering control that includes the following, as appropriate:

i. Chemicals of concern;

ii. Representative concentrations of the chemicals of concern;

iii. Any Tier 2 or Tier 3 corrective action standard;

iv. Exposure pathways that are eliminated;

v. Reduction in magnitude or duration of exposures to chemicals of concern;

vi. The cumulative excess lifetime cancer risk and hazard index if
determined under subsection (A)(4);

vii. A brief description of the institutional or engineering control;

viii. Any activity or use limitation for the site;

ix. The person responsible for maintaining the institutional or engineering
control;

x. Performance standards;

xi. Operation and maintenance plans;

xii. Provisions for removal of the institutional or engineering control if the
owner or operator demonstrates that representative concentrations of
chemicals of concern comply with an alternative corrective action standard
not dependent on the institutional or engineering control; and

xiii. A statement of intent that informs lessees and parties with rights of
access of the terms described in subsections (B)(4)(d)(i) through (xii).

C. Submittal of tier evaluation. The owner or operator shall submit to the
Department the tier evaluation conducted under subsection (A) and provide,
in accordance with subsection (B), the following:

1. Documentation of the Tier 1 evaluation with the site characterization
report described in R18-12-262(D), and

2. Documentation of the Tier 2 evaluation as soon as practicable during the
course of conducting risk-based responses to contamination, as a stand
alone document or in conjunction with one of the following:

a. The site characterization report described in R18-12-262(D);
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.01 Risk-based Corrective Action
    Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


b. The CAP as described in R18-12-263.02(B); or

c. The corrective action completion report described in R18-12-263.03(D).

3. Documentation of the Tier 3 evaluation shall be submitted to the
Department as soon as practicable during the course of conducting risk-
based responses to contamination, as a stand alone document or in
conjunction with the CAP described in R18-12-263.02(B).

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3).)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.02 Corrective Action Plan (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-263.02. Corrective Action Plan

A. When required under R18-12-263(C) or (D), an owner or operator shall
prepare a CAP that protects public health and the environment. The
Department shall apply the following factors to determine if the CAP
protects public health and the environment:

1. The physical and chemical characteristics of the chemicals of concern,
including toxicity, persistence, and potential for migration;

2. The hydrologic and geologic characteristics of the facility and the
surrounding area;

3. The proximity, quality, and current and future uses of nearby
groundwater and nearby surface water;

4. The potential effects of residual contamination on nearby groundwater
and nearby surface water;

5. The risk characterization for current and potential receptors; and

6. Any information gathered in accordance with R18-12-251 through R18-12-
263.03.

B. CAP contents. An owner or operator shall prepare a CAP in a format
provided by the Department that includes:

1. The extent of contamination known at the time of the CAP submission,
including a current LUST site classification form, as described in R18-12-
261.01(E);

2. A description of any responses to soil, surface water, or groundwater
contamination initiated;

3. A determination of the foreseeable and most beneficial use of surface
water or groundwater within one-quarter mile of the outermost boundaries
of the contaminated water, if a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation is used for the
corrective action standard for either medium. In making this determination
the owner or operator shall:

a. Conduct a survey of property owners and other persons using or having
rights to use water within one-quarter mile of the outermost extent of
contaminated water; and

b. Include within the CAP the names and addresses of persons surveyed and
the results;
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.02 Corrective Action Plan (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. A description of goals and expected results;

5. The corrective action standard for each chemical of concern in each
affected medium, and the tier evaluation documents;

6. If active remedial methodologies are proposed the owner or operator
shall:

a. Describe any permits required for the operation of each remediation
technology and system.

b. Describe, in narrative form, the conceptual design, operation, and total
estimated cost of three remedial alternatives proposed to perform corrective
actions on contaminated soil, surface water or groundwater. Also include
data and conclusions supporting the selection and design of each technology
and system, including criteria for evaluation of effectiveness in meeting
stated objectives and an abandonment plan. The information described in
this subsection is not required if the remedial technology in the CAP is
limited to approval of corrective action standards developed under Tier 2 or
Tier 3 evaluation.

c. Justify the selection of the remedial alternative chosen for the
contamination at and from the LUST site. The owner or operator shall
consider site-specific conditions and select a remedial alternative that best
meets all of the remediation criteria listed in A.R.S. § 49-1005(D).

d. Provide schedules for the implementation, operation, and demobilization
of any remediation technology and periodic reports as described in R18-12-
263(G) to the Department.

7. The reasonably foreseeable effects of residual contamination on
groundwater and surface water.

8. Additional information necessary to analyze the site-specific conditions
and effectiveness of the proposed remedial response, which may include, but
is not limited to a feasibility study.

C. Modification of CAP. The owner or operator shall modify the CAP upon
written request of the Department to meet the requirements of subsections
(A) and (B). The request for modification shall describe any necessary
modification and its rationale. The owner or operator shall respond to the
request in writing within 45 calendar days of receipt, or a longer time period
approved by the Department. If the requested modification is not made
within 45 days, the Department shall disapprove the CAP, and notify the
owner or operator in writing under subsection (H)(2).
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.02 Corrective Action Plan (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


D. Preliminary CAP approval. If the requirements of subsections (B) and (C)
are met, the Department shall provide written notice to the owner or
operator that the CAP is complete, and provide public notice required by
R18-12-264.01.

E. Implementation before approval. An owner or operator may, in the
interest of minimizing environmental contamination and promoting more
effective remediation, begin implementation of the remediation
technologies, in the CAP, before the plan is approved by the Department, if
the owner or operator:

1. Informs the Department in writing before implementation;

2. Complies with any conditions imposed by the Department consistent with
the provisions of subsection (A), including halting any activity or mitigating
adverse consequences from implementation; and

3. Obtains all necessary permits and approvals for the remediation activities.

F. Modification due to public comment. An owner or operator shall modify
the CAP upon written request of the Department that modification is
required because of public comment received. The request shall describe any
necessary modification and its rationale. The owner or operator shall
respond to the modification request within 45 calendar days after receipt. If
the requested modification is not made in writing within 45 days, the
Department may disapprove the CAP and notify the owner or operator in
writing described in subsection (H)(2).

G. Conditions for CAP approval. The Department shall approve a CAP only if
the following conditions are met:

1. The CAP contains all elements required in subsections (B), (C), and (F), or
the Department makes a determination that it has enough information to
make an informed decision to approve the CAP; and

2. The CAP demonstrates that the corrective actions described are necessary,
reasonable, cost-effective, technically feasible and meet the requirements of
A.R.S. § 49-1005.

H. Notice of CAP approval. The Department shall notify the owner or
operator, and any person that comments on the CAP, in writing that it is
approving or disapproving the CAP as follows:

1. If the conditions in subsections (G)(1) and (G)(2) are satisfied, the
Department shall approve the CAP and notify the owner or operator. If the
approved CAP includes a corrective action standard for water that is based
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.02 Corrective Action Plan (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


on a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation, the Department shall send a copy of the
notice to the Arizona Department of Water Resources, the applicable county,
and municipality where the CAP will be implemented, and water service
providers and persons having water rights that may be impacted by the
release. The notice shall also be sent to any persons submitting written or
oral comments on the proposed CAP. The notice shall include any
conditions upon which the approval is based and an explanation of the
process for resolving disagreements over the determination under A.R.S. §
49-1091.

2. If the conditions of subsections (G)(1) or (2) are not satisfied, the
Department shall disapprove the CAP and notify the owner or operator in
writing of the disapproval. The Department shall send the notice to any
persons submitting written or oral comments on the proposed CAP. The
notice shall include an explanation of the rationale for the disapproval and
an explanation of the process for resolving disagreements under A.R.S. § 49-
1091.

I. CAP implementation. If the CAP is approved, the owner or operator shall
begin implementation in accordance with the approved schedule.

J. CAP termination. The Department may terminate an implemented CAP,
and may require a new CAP if the corrective action standards of the
approved CAP are not being achieved. The Department shall provide notice
to the owner or operator and the public under R18-12-264.01 if termination
of the CAP is being considered.

K. Revisions to an approved CAP. The Department may approve revisions to
an approved CAP without additional public notice unless the revision
involves alternative remediation methodologies, or may adversely affect
public health or the environment.

L. New CAP. The Department shall require a new CAP under R18-12-263(C)
or (D) if a revision involves an alternative remediation methodology or may
adversely affect public health or the environment.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.03 Lust Case Closure (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-263.03. LUST Case Closure

A. LUST case closure request. An owner or operator requesting LUST case
closure by the Department shall do so in writing, and submit a corrective
action completion report that meets the requirements of this Section. The
owner or operator shall submit the request for LUST case closure only after
the site investigation requirements in R18-12-261 and R18-12-262, and any
remedial response required by R18-12-263 are satisfied.

B. Verification that corrective action standard is met. The owner or operator
shall verify that the corrective action standard for each chemical of concern
in each contaminated medium is met, and provide documentation of the
verification described in subsection (D).

C. Method of water quality verification. If LUST site investigations indicate
that water quality was threatened or impacted, the owner or operator shall
use an appropriate method of water quality verification. The owner or
operator shall provide documentation that contaminant concentrations are
at or below the corrective action standard for each chemical of concern in
the contaminated groundwater and surface water. In selecting a method of
water quality verification, the owner or operator shall consider:

1. Site-specific hydrologic conditions;

2. The full extent of water contamination, as documented in the site
characterization report required by R18-12-262; and

3. The existence and location of known receptors that are or may be
impacted by the release.

D. Contents of corrective action completion report. The owner or operator
shall include the following information in the corrective action completion
report, except that identical information previously submitted to the
Department is not required to be resubmitted if the name, date, and
applicable page(s) of any previous report containing the information
required by this subsection is provided:

1. A description of the vertical and lateral extent of contamination;

2. A statement of the corrective action standard for each chemical of concern
in each contaminated medium and the evaluation described in R18-12-
263.01(B) for each tier evaluated;

3. A list of remediation technologies used to reach the corrective action
standard;
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.03 Lust Case Closure (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


4. Documentation verifying that the corrective action standard for each
chemical of concern, in each medium of concern, has been met. Verification
is not required if an initial investigation regarding soil, surface water, or
groundwater described in R18-12-262 demonstrates the corrective action
standard for each chemical of concern in each medium of concern has been
met;

5. All sample collection locations shall be shown for both the site
investigation described in R18-12-262 and the LUST case closure
verification described in this Section;

6. Verification that Arizona Department of Water Resources permitted
monitor wells, recovery wells, or vapor extraction wells that are abandoned
before submission of the LUST case closure request, have been abandoned
as required under A.A.C. R12-15-816 and that recovery wells or vapor
extraction wells without Arizona Department of Water Resources permits
have been abandoned in a manner that ensures that the well will not provide
a pathway for contaminant migration;

7. Documentation showing compliance with the requirements for the
storage, treatment, or disposal of any derived waste in R18-12-263(F);

8. Documentation showing any institutional or engineering controls that
have been implemented, and any legal mechanisms that have been put in
place to ensure that the institutional or engineering controls will be
maintained;

9. The current LUST site classification form in R18-12-261.01(E); and

10. Any additional information the owner or operator determines is
necessary to verify that the LUST case is eligible for closure under this
Section.

E. Conditions for approval of LUST case closure. The Department shall
inform the owner or operator that a corrective action completion report is
approved if it meets the requirements of this Section and A.R.S. § 49-1005,
and contains all of the information in subsection (D), or the Department
determines that it has enough information to make an informed decision to
approve the report and close the LUST case file.

F. Notice of LUST case closure decision. The Department shall provide
written notice to the owner or operator that the corrective action completion
report either does or does not comply with the requirements of this Section,
and that case closure is approved or denied. LUST case closure occurs as
follows:
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.03 Lust Case Closure (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


1. If the Department determines that the conditions in subsection (E) are
satisfied, the Department shall approve the report, close the LUST case, and
notify the owner or operator. The notification shall include any conditions
upon which the approval is based and explain the process for resolving
disagreements provided by A.R.S. § 49-1091; or

2. If the Department determines that the conditions in subsection (E) are
not satisfied, the Department shall disapprove the report and notify the
owner or operator. The notification shall include any conditions upon which
the disapproval is based and explain the process for resolving disagreements
under A.R.S. § 49-1091.

G. Change in foreseeable or most beneficial use of water. If the Department
is notified of a change in the foreseeable or most beneficial use of water,
documented under a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation, the Department may reopen
the LUST case file and require the owner or operator to perform additional
corrective actions as necessary to meet the requirements of R18-12-261
through R18-12-264.01.

H. Subsequent discovery of contamination. If evidence of previously
undocumented contamination is discovered at or emanating from the LUST
site, the Department may reopen the LUST case file based on an assessment
of site specific information and require an owner or operator to perform
additional corrective actions necessary to comply with the requirements of
R18-12-261 through R18-12-264.01.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.04 Groundwater Lust Case
      Closures (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-263.04. Groundwater LUST Case Closures

A. Applicability. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1005(E), the Director may approve
a corrective action that may result in aquifer water quality exceeding aquifer
water quality standards established under A.R.S. § 49-223 after completion
of the corrective action, if, in addition to complying with the other corrective
action requirements in this Article, the corrective action:

1. Includes a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation performed in accordance with R18-
12-263.01(A)(2) or (3), and (4); or

2. Complies with the process described in subsections (B) through (F).

B. Site-specific requirements. The Director may approve LUST case closure
where there is an exceedance of an aquifer water quality standard without
requiring the placement of institutional controls on the deeds of all
properties affected by the groundwater contamination related to the UST
release, after consideration of the following:

1. Characterization of the groundwater plume,

2. Removal or control of the source of contamination,

3. Groundwater plume stability,

4. Natural attenuation,

5. Threatened or impacted drinking water wells,

6. Other exposure pathways,

7. Requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1005(D) and (E), and

8. Other information that is pertinent to the LUST case closure approval.

C. Public notice. If, after consideration of the criteria specified in subsection
(B), the Department determines that the LUST site is eligible for LUST case
closure, the Department shall provide public notice in accordance with R18-
12-264.01.

D. Conditions for approval of LUST case closure. After consideration of
comments obtained through the public notice process, the Department shall
evaluate whether the LUST case meets the requirements of this Section and
A.R.S. § 49-1005; and determine if the LUST case closure can be approved.
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-263.04 Groundwater Lust Case
      Closures (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


E. Notice of LUST case closure decision. The Department shall provide
written notice to the owner or operator and any commenter whether the
LUST case closure is approved or denied.

F. Future corrective actions. Subsequent to LUST case closure, if the
Department becomes aware of site-specific conditions that warrant
additional corrective actions, the LUST case file may be re-opened. Future
corrective actions shall be performed as follows:

1. If a no further action letter has not been issued for the release or has been
rescinded, the UST owner or operator shall perform additional corrective
actions necessary to comply with the requirements of R18-12-261 through
R18-12-264.01; or

2. If a no further action letter issued by the Department is in effect, the
additional corrective actions shall be performed by the Department in
accordance with A.R.S. § 49-1017.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605, effective February
2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-264 General Reporting Requirements
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-264. General Reporting Requirements

A. Standard first page. An owner or operator making a written submission to
the Department under R18-12-251 through R18-12-263.04 shall prepare a
cover page, on a Department provided form, that contains the following:

1. The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the person
responsible for submitting the document, identified as owner, operator, a
political subdivision under A.R.S. § 49-1053(F), or other person notifying
the Department of a release or suspected release or conducting corrective
actions under A.R.S. § 49-1016(C)(2) or (4), and any identifying number
assigned to the person by the Department;

2. Identification of the type of document or request being submitted;

3. The LUST number assigned by the Department to the release that is the
subject of the document. If no LUST number is assigned, the date the release
or suspected release was reported to the Department;

4. The name and address of the facility, and the facility identification
number;

5. The name, address, daytime telephone number, and any identification
number assigned by the Department of the owner and operator and the
owner of the property that contains LUST; and

6. A certification statement signed by the owner or operator or the person
conducting the corrective actions under A.R.S. § 49-1016(C) that reads: "I
hereby certify, under penalty of law, that this submittal and all attachments
are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I
am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of a fine and imprisonment for
knowing violations."

B. Professional registration requirements. The registered professional
engineer or geologist submitting a written report to the Department under
R18-12-260 through R18-12-263.03 and the report shall meet the
requirements of the Arizona Board of Technical Registration under A.R.S.
Title 32, Chapter 1 and the rules made under that Chapter.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 1/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-264.01 Public Participation (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-264.01. Public Participation

A. Public notice. If public notice is required by A.R.S. § 49-1005, or this
Article, the Department shall provide a minimum of 30 calendar days notice
to the public regarding a public comment period. The Department shall use
one or more methods of public notice designed to reach those members of
the public directly affected by the release and the planned corrective actions,
which may include, but is not limited to the following: publication in a
newspaper of general circulation, posting at the facility, mailing a notice to
applicable persons, or posting on the Department's internet site. At a
minimum, the notice shall be sent to the following applicable persons:

1. The UST owner and operator;

2. Owners of property and other parties directly affected or potentially
directly affected by contamination from the release, corrective actions, or
LUST case closure;

3. The Arizona Department of Water Resources;

4. The applicable county and municipality; and

5. Water service providers and persons having water rights that may be
impacted by the release.

B. Public notice contents. The Department shall provide notice to the public
that includes all of the following:

1. The name of the document that is available for public comment;

2. The facility where the release occurred and the site of the proposed
corrective actions, or LUST case closure in accordance with R18-12-263.04.

3. If the document is a CAP, the date the CAP was submitted to the
Department, and name of the person who submitted the CAP;

4. A specific explanation if a corrective action standard for water is based on
a Tier 2 or Tier 3 evaluation;

5. The location where a copy of the document can be viewed by the public;

6. An explanation that any comments on the document shall be sent to the
Underground Storage Tank Program of the Department within the time-
frame specified in the notice; and

7. The public meeting provisions of subsection (C).
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-264.01 Public Participation (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


C. Public meeting. The Department may hold a public meeting to receive
comments on a document undergoing public review. If the Department
holds a public meeting, the Department shall schedule the meeting and
notify the public, in accordance with subsection (A), of the meeting time and
location.

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August
20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605,
effective February 2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25
A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-270 Temporary Closure (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-270. Temporary Closure

A. Owners and operators shall notify the Department in accordance with
R18-12-222(G) within 30 days of the date that an UST system is temporarily
closed, and within 30 days of a temporarily closed system brought back into
operation.

B. Owners and operators of a temporarily closed UST system shall continue
operation and maintenance of corrosion protection in accordance with R18-
12-231, and release detection in accordance with R18-12-240 through R18-
12-245. Discovery of a release or suspected release shall be subject to the
provisions of R18-12-274. Release detection and release detection operation
and maintenance testing and inspections under R18-12-230 through R18-
12-245 are not required if the temporarily closed UST system is emptied of
all regulated substances and accumulated residues. The UST system is
empty when all contents have been removed from the system so that no
more than 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) of residue or 0.3% by weight of the total
capacity of the UST system remain in the system. Spill and overfill operation
and maintenance testing and inspections in accordance with R18-12-220(D),
R18-12-221(H), R18-12-230, R18-12-235 and R18-12-236 do not have to be
met during temporary closure.

C. Owners and operators of any UST system which is temporarily closed for
three months or more shall also comply with both of the following
requirements before the end of the third month following the date on which
the UST system began temporary closure:

1. Vent lines left open and functioning;

2. All other lines, pumps, manways, and ancillary equipment capped and
secured in accordance with R18-12-281(P)(1).

D. An UST system that meets the performance standards in R18-12-220 for
new UST systems or the upgrade standards in R18-12-221 may remain in
temporary closure indefinitely.

E. When an UST system that does not meet either the performance
standards in R18-12-220 for new UST systems or the upgrade standards in
R18-12-221 is temporarily closed for more than 12 months, owners and
operators shall permanently close the UST system. Owners and operators of
these systems that want to remain in temporary closure longer than 12
months may request either a standard extension or a limited extension of
the 12 months of temporary closure according to subsection (F).
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-270 Temporary Closure (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


F. A request for an extension shall be made by the owner or operator using
the Notification Form as described in R18-12-222(C) prior to the expiration
of the 12-month period of temporary closure.

1. Standard extension. A standard extension extends the 12 month
temporary closure period and temporarily postpones the obligation to
permanently close the tank. A request for a standard extension shall include
the results of a site assessment conducted in accordance with R18-12-272.

2. Limited extension. A limited extension also temporarily postpones the
obligation to permanently close the tank but does not require the results of a
site assessment. A limited extension can be requested if:

a. The owner or operator has begun the process of permanently closing the
tank either with or without the Department's assistance,

b. The owner or operator has begun the process of obtaining a baseline
assessment either with or without the Department's assistance, or

c. The owner or operator has begun the process of confirming a release
either with or without the Department's assistance.

G. If the request is timely submitted, the UST shall be considered to be in
extended temporary closure until the Department's determination is made
and the owner is informed in writing. The Department shall inform the
owner, in writing by certified mail, if the extension request is granted or
denied. A standard or limited extension of temporary closure which is
granted by the Department shall include the duration and the terms and
conditions of the extension. Terms and conditions shall be based upon the
Department's assessment of what is reasonably necessary to protect human
health and the environment. If the request for extension is denied, the UST
system shall complete permanent closure in accordance with R18-12-271
through R18-12-274.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-271 Permanent Closure and Change-in-
      service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-271. Permanent Closure and Change-in-service

A. At least 30 days before beginning permanent closure or a change-in-
service under subsection (D), owners and operators shall inform the
Department, on a form provided by the Director, of their intent to
permanently close or make a change-in-service of an UST. If closure or
change-in-service is not completed within six months from the date the
Department is informed, the information is deemed to be expired. Owners
and operators shall provide the Department with all of the following
information:

1. UST system owner name, address, and telephone number;

2. Facility name or company site identifier;

3. Facility street address;

4. Description of each UST system to be closed, including date of
installation, total capacity, and construction material;

5. The estimated date of permanent closure or change-in-service;

6. The intended tank service provider.

B. The Department shall waive the 30-day notice described in subsection (A)
if the permanent closure is in response to a corrective action conducted
under A.R.S. § 49-1005 which was reported under A.R.S. § 49-1004. In
addition, the Department may determine another reasonable time period for
the notice of intent to permanently close or make a change-in-service to the
UST system if any of the following exist:

1. An emergency that threatens human health or the environment,

2. The Department agrees to a request made by an entity operating under an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Department delegating closure
inspection authority.

C. Within 15 calendar days of receipt of the information required in
subsection (A), the Department shall send the owner or operator an email
indicating whether the proposed permanent closure may or may not proceed
as described, or whether further information is necessary.

D. To permanently close or make a change-in-service to an UST system,
owners and operators may follow the applicable standards in R18-12-281(P)
and shall perform all of the following steps:
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-271 Permanent Closure and Change-in-
      service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


1. Develop documented evidence that the contents of the system are a
regulated substance. Unless system contents can be documented through
delivery receipts or knowledge of process, a waste determination in
accordance with R18-8-261(A) shall be performed. If contents are not a
regulated substance, they may be subject to hazardous, solid or special waste
regulations as follows:

a. If the contents of an UST system are determined to meet the definition of
a hazardous waste based upon a waste determination, the contents may be
subject to the requirements of A.R.S. § § 49-901 et seq. and the rules
promulgated thereunder;

b. If the contents of an UST system are not a regulated substance and not a
hazardous waste, the contents may be subject to the requirements of R18-13-
311 and R18-13-312.

2. Drain and flush back into the tank regulated substances from piping and
any other ancillary equipment that routinely contains regulated substances.
All piping, dispensers, and other ancillary equipment to be closed shall be
capped or removed;

3. Empty to the standard set forth in R18-12-270(B) and clean the UST by
removing all liquids and accumulated residues. The liquids and accumulated
residues which meet the definition of hazardous waste pursuant to A.R.S. §
49-921(5) may be subject to regulation under A.R.S. § § 49-901 et seq. If the
liquids and accumulated residues are not hazardous waste, they may be
subject to regulation pursuant to A.R.S. § § 49-701 et seq;

4. Remove from the ground or fill completely with inert solid materials all
tanks permanently taken out-of-operation unless the UST system
component is making a change-in-service;

5. Perform the site assessment at closure or change-in-service in accordance
with R18-12-272. The site assessment shall be performed after informing the
Department but prior to completion of the permanent closure or change-in-
service. If the tank is removed, samples shall be taken at the time of
removal.

E. Owners and operators who permanently close or make a change-in-
service of an UST system shall prepare a closure report in a format provided
by the Department. The closure report shall be submitted to the Department
within 30 days of the completion of closure or change-in-service. The report
shall be maintained by the Department for at least three years from the date
of receipt as evidenced by the post mark or the date stamped on the
document by the Department. The report shall demonstrate compliance
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-271 Permanent Closure and Change-in-
      service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


with the requirements of this Section and R18-12-272. In addition, the
report shall include all of the following:

1. The name of the facility owner and operator, facility name and address,
facility identification number, and a certification statement signed by the
UST owner or operator or the authorized agent of the owner or operator that
reads: "I hereby certify, under penalty of law, that this submittal and all
attachments were prepared under my direction and supervision, and that
the information submitted is true, accurate, and complete to the best of my
knowledge."

2. Information concerning the required soil sampling, conducted in
accordance with R18-12-272, which shall include the rationale for selecting
sample types, sample locations, and measurement methods and, for each
sample, all of the following: sample location identification number; sample
depth; sampling date; date of laboratory analysis; lithology of sample; field
soil vapor readings, if obtained; analytical methods used; laboratory results;
numerical detection limits; and all sampling quality assurance and quality
control results;

3. Information concerning the required water sampling, conducted in
accordance with R18-12-280, which shall include, for each sample, all of the
following: sample location identification number; sampling date; date of
laboratory analysis; laboratory results; analytical methods used; numerical
detection limits; and all sampling quality assurance and quality control
results;

4. Copies of all original laboratory reports and chain-of-custody forms, and
any supporting laboratory documents which discuss any analytical quality
assurance and quality control anomalies experienced by the laboratory. The
laboratory reports shall include, for each sample, all of the following:
analytical methods; sample collection date; extraction date; sample analysis
date; laboratory detection limits; and all analytical quality assurance and
quality control analyses conducted by the laboratory for or during the
analyses of the subject samples;

5. A brief, site-specific narrative description of the sampling quality
assurance and quality control program followed in the field in accordance
with R18-12-280(B). Any sampling quality assurance and quality control
anomalies shall be discussed in detail. The report shall include a
determination as to the validity of the data from a scientific standpoint;

6. A scaled map showing the locations of the tank, piping, and dispensers
and the locations of all samples obtained in accordance with R18-12-272.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-271 Permanent Closure and Change-in-
      service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-272 Assessing the Ust Site at Closure or
Change-in-service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-272. Assessing the UST Site at Closure or Change-in-
service

A. Before permanent closure or a change-in-service is completed, owners
and operators shall measure for the presence of a release at the UST site by
taking samples for laboratory analysis. Samples shall be obtained in the
areas where contamination would most likely occur, or where stained soils,
odors, vapors, free product, or other evidence indicates that a release may
have occurred. Measurement for presence of a release shall be performed
according to all of the following:

1. Owners and operators shall document the environmental condition of the
UST site and the presence or absence of any contamination resulting from
the operation of the UST system at the site through analyses performed on
samples of native soil, and of water encountered during the UST closure
assessment;

2. Specific locations for the required sampling at the UST system site shall
be determined by the presence of stained soils, odors, vapors, free product,
or other evidence indicating that a release may have occurred. In selecting
sample types, sample locations, and measurement methods, owners and
operators shall also consider the method of closure, the nature of the stored
substance, the type of backfill, the depth to groundwater, and other factors
which may identify the presence of a release. At a minimum, each site shall
be sampled in accordance with the following:

a. If water is not present in the excavation at the time an UST is removed or
if the UST is filled with a solid inert material as described in R18-12-
271(D)(4), a minimum of two distinct soil samples shall be taken from native
soils beneath each tank that has a capacity to hold more than 550 gallons.
The samples shall be taken from beneath each end of each tank. In cases
where the fill pipe or pump is located above the center of the tank, an
additional sample shall be taken from beneath the center of the tank. If the
capacity of the tank is 550 gallons or less, then one sample shall be taken
from native soils beneath the center of the tank;

b. If water is present above the floor of the excavation at the time an UST is
removed, distinct samples of native soils shall be taken from the walls of the
excavation at the soil-water interface at both ends of the tank;

c. If native soil cannot be collected in accordance with R18-12-280 due to
large clast size or induration, or if the excavation zone is constructed in
bedrock one of the following shall be performed:
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-272 Assessing the Ust Site at Closure or
Change-in-service (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


i. Samples of the UST excavation backfill material shall be collected from
beneath the UST system in accordance with locations described in
subsection (A)(2)(a).

ii. If the UST excavation backfill material cannot be sampled, the
Department shall be contacted for further instruction.

d. If water is encountered during activities required under this Section, a
sample of the water shall be collected for analysis. If a sheen or free product
is observed on the water or in the sample, the sampling requirements of
subsection (A)(2) do not have to be met, however, further reporting and
investigation shall be conducted in accordance with R18-12-274;

e. If piping is permanently closed in accordance with R18-12-271(D)(2)
distinct samples of native soil shall be collected under elbows, joints,
fittings, dispensers and areas of corrosion. In addition, such sampling shall
ensure that samples are collected every 20 linear feet along the piping
trench;

f. Stockpiled excavated soil shall be sampled in accordance with A.R.S. Title
49, Chapter 4, Article 9, and the rules promulgated thereunder.

3. All required sampling shall be performed in accordance with R18-12-280.

B. The requirements of this Section are satisfied if owners and operators
document all of the following:

1. The UST system is monitored by one of the external release detection
methods described in R18-12-243(E) or (F),

2. The release detection system has been operated in accordance with the
requirements of R18-12-240,

3. The release detection system indicates no releases have occurred.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-273 Application of Closure
       Requirements to Previously Closed Systems (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-273. Application of Closure Requirements to Previously
Closed Systems

When directed to do so by the Department, owners and operators of an UST
system which was permanently closed before December 22, 1988, shall
assess the excavation zone and close the UST system in accordance with
R18-12-271, R18-12-272, and R18-12-274 if known, suspected, or potential
releases from the UST system, in the judgment of the Department, may pose
a current or potential threat to human health or the environment.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-274 Release Reporting and Corrective
 Action for Closed Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

§ R18-12-274. Release Reporting and Corrective Action for Closed
Systems

If a release or suspected release is discovered during temporary closure
under R18-12-270 or in the performance of the procedures described in R18-
12-272(A), owners and operators shall report the release and perform
corrective action as required under A.R.S. § § 49-1004 and 49-1005 and this
Chapter.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-280 Sampling Requirements (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-280. Sampling Requirements

A. Required analytical procedures. For all sampling under this Chapter, an
owner or operator shall:

1. Analyze samples for the chemicals of concern associated with regulated
substances stored in the UST during its operational life by analytical test
methods that are approved for analysis of each chemical of concern under 9
A.A.C. 14, Article 6. Before collecting samples, the Department may approve,
a different procedure after considering whether the analytical data will be
representative of the concentrations and compositions of volatile regulated
substances existing in the contaminated medium;

2. Perform sample analyses using a laboratory licensed for the selected
analytical method by the Arizona Department of Health Services under
A.A.C. R9-14-601 through A.A.C. R9-14-617; and

3. Analyze samples within the specified time period required for the
analytical test method under A.A.C. R9-14-601 through A.A.C. R9-14-617.

B. Quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC). For all required sampling
under this Chapter, an owner or operator shall:

1. Decontaminate sampling equipment as provided in R18-12-281(Q);

2. Handle and transport samples using a methodology that will result in
analytical data that is representative of the concentrations and compositions
of the chemicals of concern that may exist in the contaminated medium;

3. Follow chain-of-custody procedures under R18-12-281(T), for all required
sampling, including the condition and temperature of the samples received
by the laboratory on the chain-of-custody record; and

4. Follow generally accepted industry standards. For the purpose of
subsection (B), "generally accepted industry standards" means those QA/QC
procedures that are described in publications of national organizations
concerned with corrective actions or that otherwise appear in peer-reviewed
literature.

C. Soil sampling. An owner or operator shall perform all soil sampling
required under this Chapter using a methodology that will result in
analytical data that is representative of the concentrations and compositions
of the chemicals of concern that may exist in the contaminated soil. The
owner or operator shall use a sampling method that is based on
consideration of all of the following criteria:
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-280 Sampling Requirements (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


1. The specific chemicals of concern potentially involved,

2. Site-specific lithologic conditions,

3. Depth of sample collection, and

4. Generally accepted industry standards. For the purpose of subsection (C),
"generally accepted industry standards" means those soil sampling activities
that are described in publications of national organizations concerned with
corrective actions or that otherwise appear in peer-reviewed literature.

D. Groundwater sampling. An owner or operator shall perform all required
groundwater sampling under this Chapter using a methodology that will
result in analytical data that is representative of the concentrations and
compositions of the chemicals of concern that may exist in the groundwater.
The owner or operator shall use a sampling method that is based on
consideration of all of the following criteria:

1. The specific chemicals of concern potentially involved,

2. Site-specific hydrologic conditions,

3. Site-specific monitor well construction details,

4. Depth of sample collection, and

5. Generally accepted industry standards. For the purpose of subsection (D),
"generally accepted industry standards" means those groundwater sampling
activities that are described in publications of national organizations
concerned with corrective actions or that otherwise appear in peer-reviewed
literature.

E. Surface water sampling. An owner or operator shall perform all required
surface water sampling under this Chapter using a methodology that will
result in analytical data that is representative of the concentrations and
compositions of the chemicals of concern that may exist in the surface water.
The owner or operator shall use a sampling method that is based on
consideration of all of the following:

1. The specific chemicals of concern involved or potentially involved,

2. Site-specific hydrologic conditions, and

3. Generally accepted industry standards. For the purpose of subsection (E),
"generally accepted industry standards" means those surface water sampling
activities that are described in publications of national organizations
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-280 Sampling Requirements (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


concerned with corrective actions or that otherwise appear in peer-reviewed
literature.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 8 A.A.R. 3894, effective August 20, 2002 (Supp. 02-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
     Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                              Edition))

§ R18-12-281. UST System Codes of Practice and Performance
Standards

A. Owners and operators may use one of the following to comply with R18-
12-211(A):

1. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection";

2. NACE International Standard Practice SP0169-2013, "Control of External
Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping Systems";

3. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1632, "Cathodic
Protection of Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks and Piping Systems",
3rd edition; or

4. Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R892, "Recommended
Practice for Corrosion Protection of Underground Piping Networks
Associated with Liquid Storage and Dispensing Systems", revised January
2006.

B. Owners and operators may use one of the following to comply with R18-
12-220(B)(1):

1. Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1316, "Glass-Fiber-Reinforced Plastic
Underground Storage Tanks for Petroleum Products, Alcohols, and Alcohol-
Gasoline Mixtures", 3rd edition; or

2. Underwriters Laboratories of Canada S615-14, "Standard for Fibre
Reinforced Plastic Underground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible
Liquids"

.

C. Owners and operators may use one of the following five options to comply
with R18-12-220(B)(2):

1. Steel Tank Institute sti-P3 "Specification and Manual for External
Corrosion Protection of Underground Steel Storage Tanks", revised May
2018;

2. Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1746, "Standard for External
Corrosion Protection Systems for Steel Underground Storage Tanks", 3rd
edition, amended December 19, 2014;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

3. Underwriters Laboratories of Canada CAN/ULC-S603-14, "Standard for
Steel Underground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids",
amended as of October 2014; Underwriters Laboratories of Canada
CAN/ULC-S603.1:2017, "Standard for External Corrosion Protection
Systems for Steel Underground Tanks for Flammable and Combustible
Liquids", amended as of February 2017; and Underwriters Laboratories of
Canada Standard S631-05, " Isolating Bushings for Steel Underground
Tanks Protected with External Corrosion Protection Systems", amended as
of July 2005;

4. Steel Tank Institute Standard F841, "Standard for Dual Wall
Underground Steel Storage Tanks", January 2006; or

5. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011 "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection"; and
Underwriters Laboratories Standard 58, "Standard for Steel Underground
Tanks for Flammable and Combustible Liquids", 10th edition, amended as
of January 31, 2018.

D. Owners and operators may use one of the following to comply with R18-
12-220(B)(3):

1. Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1746, "External Corrosion Protection
Systems for Steel Underground Storage Tanks", 3rd edition, amended
December 19, 2014;

2. Steel Tank Institute ACT-100, "Specification for External Corrosion
Protection of FRP Composite Steel Underground Storage Tanks-F894",
revised May 2018;

3. Steel Tank Institute ACT-100U Specification F961, "Specification for
External Corrosion Protection of Composite Steel Underground Storage
Tanks", February 2017; or

4. Steel Tank Institute Specification F922, "Steel Tank Institute Specification
for Permatank ® ", February 2017.

E. Compliance with R18-12-220(C)(1) may be determined by utilization of
one of the following:

1. Underwriters Laboratories 971, "Standard for Nonmetallic Underground
Piping for Flammable Liquids", 2nd edition, June 17, 2008; or

2. Underwriters Laboratories of Canada Standard S660 "Standard for
Nonmetallic Underground Piping for Flammable and Combustible Liquids",
1st edition, May 1, 2008.
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

F. Compliance with R18-12-220(C)(2) may be determined by utilization of
one of the following:

1. American Petroleum Institute Publication 1632, "Cathodic Protection of
Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks and Piping Systems", 3rd edition;

2. Underwriters Laboratories Subject 971A, "Outline of Investigation for
Metallic Underground Fuel Pipe"; 1st edition, October 18, 2006;

3. Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R892, "Recommended
Practice for Corrosion Protection of Underground Piping Networks
Associated with Liquid Storage and Dispensing Systems", January 2006;

4. NACE International Standard Practice SP0169-2013, "Control of External
Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping Systems"; or

5. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection".

G. Compliance with R18-12-220(E) may be determined by utilization of
subsection (1), (2), or (3):

1. American Petroleum Institute Publication 1615, "Installation of
Underground Hazardous Substances or Petroleum Storage Systems", 6th
edition, April 2011;

2. Petroleum Equipment Institute Publication PEI/RP100-17,
"Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid Storage
Systems"; or

3. National Fire Protection Association Standard 30, "Flammable and
Combustible Liquids Code", 2018 edition; and Standard 30A, "Code for
Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages", 2018 edition.

H. Compliance with R18-12-221(F) may be determined by utilization of any
of the following:

1. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1631, "Interior
Lining and Periodic Inspection of Underground Storage Tanks", 5th edition;

2. National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, "Chapter A, Entry,
Cleaning, Interior Inspection, Repair and Lining of Underground Storage
Tanks"; and Chapter B, "10 And 5 Year Inspection for Lined Tanks without
Cathodic Protection", 2009 revision;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

3. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection"; or

4. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1632, "Cathodic
Protection of Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks and Piping Systems",
3rd edition.

I. Compliance with R18-12-230(A) may be determined by utilization of one
of the following:

1. National Fire Protection Association Publication 385, "Standard for Tank
Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids", amended as of 2017;

2. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1007, "Loading and
Unloading of MC 306/DOT 406 Cargo Tank Motor Vehicles", 1st edition,
amended as of March 2001, reaffirmed February 2011; or

3. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1621, "Bulk Liquid
Stock Control At Retail Outlets", 5th edition.

J. Compliance with R18-12-231(B)(2) may be determined by utilization of
one of the following:

1. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection";

2. NACE International Standard Test Method TM0101-2012, "Measurement
Techniques Related to Criteria for Cathodic Protection of Underground
Storage Tank Systems";

3. NACE International Standard Test Method TM0497-2012, "Measurement
Techniques Related to Criteria for Cathodic Protection on Underground or
Submerged Metallic Piping Systems";

4. Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R051, "Cathodic Protection
Testing Procedures for STI-P3 ® USTs", April 2017; or

5. NACE International Standard Practice SP0169-2013, "Control of External
Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping Systems".

K. Compliance with R18-12-232(B)(1)(a) may be determined by utilization of

American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1626, "Storing and
Handling Ethanol and Gasoline-Ethanol Blends at Distribution Terminals
and Filling Stations", 2nd edition.
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

L. Compliance with R18-12-233(A)(1) may be determined by utilization of
the following codes of practice, as applicable:

1. National Fire Protection Association Standard 30, "Flammable and
Combustible Liquids Code", 2018 edition;

2. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 2200, "Repairing
Hazardous Liquid Pipelines", 5th edition;

3. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1631, "Interior
Lining and Periodic Inspection of Underground Storage Tanks", 5th edition;

4. National Fire Protection Association Standard 326, "Standard for the
Safeguarding of Tanks and Containers for Entry, Cleaning, or Repair", 2015
edition;

5. National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, Chapter A, "Entry,
Cleaning, Interior Inspection, Repair and Lining of Underground Storage
Tanks", ( 2009 revision);

6. Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R972, "Recommended
Practice for the Addition of Supplemental Anodes to STI-P3 ® USTs",
December 2010;

7. NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Control of
Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection"; and

8. Fiberglass Tank and Pipe Institute Recommended Practice T-95-1,
"Remanufacturing of Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Underground
Storage Tanks".

M. Compliance with R18-12-233(A)(2) may be determined by utilization of
Fiberglass Petroleum Tank & Piping InstituteRecommended Practice T-95-1,
"Remanufacturing of Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Underground
Storage Tanks".

N. Compliance with R18-12-233(B)(1) may be determined by utilization of
the following, as applicable:

1. Steel Tank Institute Recommended Practice R012, "Recommended
Practice for Interstitial Tightness Testing of Existing Underground Double
Wall Steel Tanks", revised July 2016;

2. Fiberglass Tank and Pipe Institute Protocol RP 2007-2, "Field Test
Protocol for Testing the Annular Space of Installed Underground Fiberglass
Double and Triple-Wall Tanks with Dry Annular Space"; or
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

3. Petroleum Equipment Institute Recommended Practice RP1200-17,
"Recommended Practices for the Testing and Verification of Spill, Overfill,
Leak Detection and Secondary Containment Equipment at UST Facilities".

O. Compliance with R18-12-243(A) may be determined by utilization of
American Petroleum Institute Standard RP 1621, "Bulk Liquid Stock Control
At Retail Outlets", 5th edition.

P. Compliance with R18-12-271(D) may be determined by utilization of the
following, as applicable:

1. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1604, " Closure of
Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks", 3rd edition;

2. American Petroleum Institute Standard 2015, "Requirements for Safe
Entry and Cleaning of Petroleum Storage Tanks", 8th edition;

3. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 2016, "Guidelines
and Procedures for Entering and Cleaning Petroleum Storage Tanks", 1st
edition;

4. American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1631, "Interior
Lining and Periodic Inspection of Underground Storage Tanks", 5th edition;

5. National Fire Protection Association Standard 326, "Standard for the
Safeguarding of Tanks and Containers for Entry, Cleaning, or Repair", 2015
edition; and

6. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Publication 80-
106, "Criteria for a Recommended Standard: W o r k i n g in Confined
Spaces", amended as of December 1979.

Q. Compliance with R18-12-280(B)(1) shall be determined by utilization of
American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D5088-15a, "Standard
Practice for Decontamination of Field Equipment Used at Waste Sites".

R. Compliance with R18-12-280(B)(2) and (C) shall be determined by the
following:

1. American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4547-15: "Standard
Guide for Sampling Waste and Soils for Volatile Organic Compounds"; and

2. American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4700-15,
"Standard Guide for Soil Sampling from the Vadose Zone".
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-281 Ust System Codes of Practice and
  Performance Standards (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

S. Compliance with R18-12-280(B)(3) shall be determined by utilization of
American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D4840-99 (2018)e1,
"Standard Guide for Sample Chain-of-Custody Procedures".

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 1/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-300 Financial Responsibility;
    Applicability (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-300. Financial Responsibility; Applicability

A. R18-12-301 through R18-12-325 apply to all owners and operators of
petroleum UST systems, except as otherwise provided in this Section.

B. Owners and operators of a petroleum UST system are subject to the
requirements of R18-12-301 through R18-12-325 if the petroleum UST
system is being used on or after September 21, 1992, or as provided in R18-
12-951(A).

C. State and federal government entities whose debts and liabilities are the
debts and liabilities of a state or the United States are exempt from the
requirements of this Article.

D. R18-12-303 through R18-12-325 do not apply to owners and operators of
any UST system excluded under 40 CFR 280.10(b) or partially excluded
under 40 CFR 280.10(c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4), amended as of October 13,
2015.

E. If owners and operators of a petroleum underground storage tank are
separate persons, only one person is required to demonstrate financial
responsibility; however, both parties are liable in event of noncompliance.
Regardless of which party complies, the date set for compliance at a
particular facility is determined by the characteristics of the owner as set
forth in R18-12-301.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-301 Financial Responsibility;
  Compliance Dates; Allowable Mechanisms; Evidence (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-301. Financial Responsibility; Compliance Dates;
Allowable Mechanisms; Evidence

A. Owners and operators shall submit to the Department evidence of all
financial assurance mechanisms used to demonstrate financial
responsibility under this Article for an underground storage tank as
provided in this Article.

B. Owners and operators shall use the financial assurance mechanisms in
this Article to comply with financial responsibility requirements as follows:

1. Owners and operators, including local government owners and operators,
may use any one or combination of the financial assurance mechanisms
listed in R18-12-305 through R18-12-312 to demonstrate financial
responsibility under this Article for one or more underground storage tanks;

2. Local government owners and operators may also use any one or
combination of the financial assurance mechanisms listed in R18-12-314
through R18-12-317 to demonstrate financial responsibility under this
Article for one or more underground storage tanks.

C.Owners and operators shall submit evidence of compliance with the
requirements of this Article. Owners and operators shall submit to, and
maintain with, the Department a copy of any one or combination of the
assurance mechanisms specified in R18-12-305 through R18-12-312, and
R18-12-314 through R18-12-317 currently in effect along with a copy of the
standby trust agreement, if required. Owners and operators using an
assurance mechanism specified in R18-12-305 through R18-12-312 and R18-
12-314 through R18-12-317 shall submit to, and maintain with, the
Department an updated copy of a certification of financial responsibility
worded as provided in 40 CFR 280.111(b)(11)(i), amended as of October 13,
2015, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the
relevant information and the brackets deleted. In addition, local government
owners and operators shall comply with one or more of the following:

1. Local government owners and operators using the local government bond
rating test under R18-12-314 shall submit a copy of its bond rating published
within the last 12 months by Moody's or Standard & Poor's;

2. Local government owners and operators using the local government
guarantee under R18-12-316, if the guarantor's demonstration of financial
responsibility relies on the bond rating test under R18-12-314 shall submit a
copy of the guarantor's bond rating published within the last 12 months by
Moody's or Standard & Poor's;
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-301 Financial Responsibility;
  Compliance Dates; Allowable Mechanisms; Evidence (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

3. Local government owners and operators using a local government fund
under R18-12-317 shall submit the following documents:

a. A copy of the state constitutional provision or local government statute,
charter, ordinance, or order dedicating the fund;

b. Year-end financial statements for the most recent completed financial
reporting year showing the amount in the fund. If the fund is established
under R18-12-317(A)(3) using incremental funding backed by bonding
authority, the financial statements shall show the previous year's balance,
the amount of funding during the year, and the closing balance in the fund;

c. If the fund is established under R18-12-317(A)(3) using incremental
funding backed by bonding authority, owners and operators shall also
submit documentation of the required bonding authority, including either
the results of a voter referendum under R18-12-317(A)(3)(a), or attestation
by the state attorney general as specified under R18-12-317(A)(3)(b).

4. Local government owners and operators using the local government
guarantee supported by the local government fund shall submit a copy of the
guarantor's year-end financial statements for the most recent completed
financial reporting year showing the amount of the fund.

D. Owners and operators shall maintain evidence of all financial assurance
mechanisms used to demonstrate financial responsibility under this Article
for an underground storage tank until released from the requirements of
this Article under R18-12-323. Owners and operators shall maintain such
evidence at the underground storage tank site or a readily available
alternative site. Records maintained off-site shall be provided for inspection
to the Department upon request.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-303 Amount and Scope of Required
  Financial Responsibility (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                            Edition))

§ R18-12-303. Amount and Scope of Required Financial
Responsibility

A. Owners and operators of petroleum USTs shall demonstrate financial
responsibility for taking corrective action and for compensating 3rd parties
for bodily injury and property damage caused by accidental releases arising
from the operation of petroleum USTs in at least the following per-
occurrence amounts:

1. For owners and operators of petroleum USTs that are located at
petroleum marketing facilities, or that handle an average of more than 10,
000 gallons of petroleum per month based on annual throughput for the
previous calendar year: $1 million;

2. For owners and operators of petroleum USTs not described in subsection
(A)(1): $500, 000.

B. Owners and operators of petroleum USTs shall demonstrate financial
responsibility for taking corrective action and for compensating 3rd parties
for bodily injury and property damage caused by accidental releases arising
from the operation of a petroleum UST in at least the following annual
aggregate amounts:

1. For owners and operators of 1 to 100 petroleum USTs: $l million,

2. For owners and operators of 101 or more petroleum USTs: $2 million.

C. For the purposes of subsections (B) and (G) only, "a petroleum
underground storage tank" means a single containment unit and does not
mean combinations of single containment units.

D. Except as provided in subsection (E), if owners and operators use
separate mechanisms or combinations of separate mechanisms to
demonstrate financial responsibility for taking corrective action,
compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury and property damage caused by
sudden accidental releases, or compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury
and property damage caused by nonsudden accidental releases, the amount
of assurance provided by each mechanism or combination of mechanisms
shall be in the full amount specified in subsections (A) and (B).

E. If owners and operators use separate mechanisms or combinations of
separate mechanisms to demonstrate financial responsibility for different
petroleum USTs, the annual aggregate required shall be based on the
number of tanks covered by each such separate mechanism or combination
of mechanisms.
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-303 Amount and Scope of Required
  Financial Responsibility (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                            Edition))

F. If owners and operators utilize one mechanism, separate mechanisms, or
combinations of separate mechanisms to demonstrate financial
responsibility for petroleum USTs in more than one state or territory, with
more than one implementing agency, the identification of systems covered
by each mechanism shall include the implementing agency for each facility
or group of facilities. All facilities subject to the requirements of this rule
shall also be identified by the UST facility identification number assigned by
the Department.

G. Owners and operators shall review the amount of aggregate assurance
provided whenever additional petroleum USTs are acquired or installed. If
the number of petroleum underground storage tanks for which assurance
shall be provided exceeds 100, owners and operators shall demonstrate
financial responsibility in the amount of at least $2 million of annual
aggregate assurance by the anniversary of the date on which the mechanism
demonstrating financial responsibility became effective. If assurance is
being demonstrated by a combination of mechanisms, owners and operators
shall demonstrate financial responsibility in the amount of at least $2
million of annual aggregate assurance by the 1st-occurring effective date
anniversary of any one of the mechanisms combined, other than a financial
test or guarantee, to provide assurance.

H. The amounts of assurance required under this Section exclude legal
defense costs.

I. The per-occurrence and annual aggregate coverage amounts required by
this Section do not limit the liability of owners and operators.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-305 Financial Test of Self-insurance
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-305. Financial Test of Self-insurance

A. Owners, operators, or guarantors may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-
303 by passing a financial test as specified in this Section. To pass the
financial test of self-insurance, owners, operators, or guarantors shall meet
the criteria of either subsection (B) or (C) based on year-end financial
statements for the latest completed fiscal year.

B. In order to pass a financial test of self-insurance under this subsection,
owners, operators, or guarantors shall meet all of the following
requirements:

1. Have a tangible net worth of at least 10 times all of the following:

a. The total of the applicable aggregate amount required by R18-12-303,
based on the number of underground storage tanks for which a financial test
of self-insurance is used to demonstrate financial responsibility;

b. The sum of the corrective action cost estimates, the current closure and
post-closure care cost estimates, and amount of liability coverage for which a
financial test of self-insurance is used to demonstrate financial
responsibility under R18-8-264 or R18-8-265;

c. The sum of current plugging and abandonment cost estimates for which a
financial test of self-insurance is used to demonstrate financial
responsibility to EPA under 40 CFR 144.63, amended as of October 13, 2015,
or to a state implementing agency under a state program authorized by EPA
under 40 CFR part 145.

2. Have a tangible net worth of at least $10 million,

3. Have a letter signed by the chief financial officer worded as specified in
subsection (D),

4. Do either one of the following:

a. File financial statements annually with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Energy Information Administration, or the Rural
Electrification Administration.

b. Report annually the firm's tangible net worth to Dun and Bradstreet, and
Dun and Bradstreet shall have assigned the firm a financial strength rating
of 4A or 5A.
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-305 Financial Test of Self-insurance
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


5. The firm's year-end financial statements, if independently audited, cannot
include an adverse auditor's opinion, a disclaimer of opinion, or a "going
concern" qualification.

C. In order to pass a financial test of self-insurance under this subsection,
owners, operators, or guarantors shall meet all of the following
requirements:

1. Owners, operators, or guarantors shall meet the financial test
requirements of 40 CFR 264.147(f)(1), amended as of October 13, 2015,
substituting the appropriate amount specified in either R18-12-303(B)(1) or
(2) for the "amount of liability coverage" each time specified in 40 CFR
264.147(f)(1);

2. The fiscal year-end financial statements of owners, operators, or
guarantors shall be examined by an independent certified public accountant
and be accompanied by the accountant's report of the examination;

3. The firm's year-end financial statements cannot include an adverse
auditor's opinion, a disclaimer of opinion, or a "going concern" qualification;

4. Owners, operators, or guarantors shall have a letter signed by the chief
financial officer, worded as specified in subsection (D);

5. If the financial statements of owners, operators, or guarantors are not
submitted annually to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Energy Information Administration or the Rural Electrification
Administration, owners, operators, or guarantors shall obtain a special
report by an independent certified public accountant stating all of the
following:

a. The accountant has compared the data that the letter from the chief
financial officer specifies as having been derived from the latest year-end
financial statements of owners, operators, or guarantors, with the amounts
in such financial statements.

b. In connection with the comparison under subsection (C)(5)(a), no matters
came to the accountant's attention which caused the accountant to believe
that the specified data should be adjusted.

D. To demonstrate that it meets the financial test under subsection (B) or
(C), the chief financial officer of owners, operators, or guarantors, shall sign,
within 120 days of the close of each financial reporting year, as defined by
the 12-month period for which financial statements used to support the
financial test are prepared, a letter worded exactly as provided in 40 CFR
280.95(d), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that the instructions in
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-305 Financial Test of Self-insurance
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


brackets are to be replaced by the relevant information and the brackets
deleted.

E. If owners and operators, using a financial test of self-insurance for
financial responsibility find that they no longer meet the requirements of the
financial test based on the year-end financial statements, owners and
operators shall obtain alternative coverage within 150 days of the end of the
financial reporting year for which financial statements have been prepared.

F. The Director may require reports of financial condition at any time from
owners, operators, or guarantors. If the Director finds, on the basis of such
reports or other information, that owners, operators, or guarantors, no
longer meet the financial test requirements, owners and operators shall
obtain alternate coverage within 30 days after notification of such a finding.

G. If owners and operators fail to obtain alternate assurance within 150 days
of finding that they no longer meet the requirements of the financial test
based on the year-end financial statements, or within 30 days of notification
by the Director that they no longer meet the requirements of the financial
test, owners and operators shall notify the Director of such failure within 10
days.

H. Owners and operators may use self-insurance in combination with a
guarantee only if, for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the
financial test under this Section, the financial statements of the owner or
operator are not consolidated with the financial statements of the guarantor.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-306 Guarantee (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-306. Guarantee

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
obtaining a guarantee that conforms to the requirements of this Section. The
guarantor shall be either one of the following:

1. A firm that meets any one of the following descriptions:

a. Possesses a controlling interest in the owner or operator,

b. Possesses a controlling interest in a firm described under subsection
(A)(1)(a),

c. Is controlled through stock ownership by a common parent firm that
possesses a controlling interest in the owner or operator.

2. A firm engaged in a substantial business relationship with the owner or
operator and who issues the guarantee as an act incident to that business
relationship.

B. Within 120 days of the close of each financial reporting year, the
guarantor shall demonstrate that it meets the financial test criteria of R18-
12-305 based on year-end financial statements for the latest completed
financial reporting year by completing the letter from the chief financial
officer described in R18-12-305(D) and shall deliver the letter to the owner
or operator. If the guarantor fails to meet the requirements of the financial
test at the end of any financial reporting year, within 120 days of the end of
that financial reporting year the guarantor shall send by certified mail,
before cancellation or nonrenewal of the guarantee, notice to owners or
operators. If the Director notifies the guarantor that the guarantor no longer
meets the requirements of the financial test of R18-12-305(B) or (C) and (D),
the guarantor shall notify owners and operators within 10 days of receiving
such notification from the Director. In both cases, the guarantee terminates
no less than 120 days after the date the owner and operator receives the
notification, as evidenced by the return receipt. Owners and operators shall
obtain alternate coverage as specified in R18-12-318.

C. The guarantee shall be worded as provided in 40 CFR 280.96(c),
amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in brackets are to
be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted.

D. Owners and operators who use a guarantee to satisfy the requirements of
R18-12-303 shall establish a standby trust fund when the guarantee is
obtained. Under the terms of the guarantee, all amounts paid by the
guarantor under the guarantee will be deposited directly into the standby
trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Director under R18-12-
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-306 Guarantee (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


322. This standby trust fund shall meet the requirements specified in R18-
12-313.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-307 Insurance and Risk Retention
  Group Coverage (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-307. Insurance and Risk Retention Group Coverage

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
obtaining liability insurance that conforms to the requirements from a
qualified insurer or risk retention group. Such insurance may be in the form
of a separate insurance policy or an endorsement to an existing insurance
policy.

B. Each insurance policy shall be amended by an endorsement worded as
specified in 40 CFR 280.97(b)(1) amended as of October 13, 2015, or
evidenced by a certificate of insurance worded as specified in 40 CFR
280.97(b)(2), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in
brackets shall be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets
deleted. Termination under 40 CFR 280.97(b)(1) and (2) as referenced in
this Section means only those changes that could result in a gap in coverage
as where the insured has not obtained substitute coverage or has obtained
substitute coverage with a different retroactive date than the retroactive date
of the original policy.

C. Each insurance policy shall be issued by an insurer or a risk retention
group that, at a minimum, is licensed to transact the business of insurance
or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer in one
or more states.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
        Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-308 Surety Bond (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-308. Surety Bond

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
obtaining a surety bond that conforms to the requirements of this Section.
The surety company issuing the bond shall be among those listed as
acceptable sureties on federal bonds in the most recent Circular 570 of the
U.S. Department of the Treasury.

B. The surety bond shall be worded as provided in 40 CFR 280.98(b),
amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in brackets shall be
replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted.

C. Under the terms of the bond, the surety shall become liable on the bond
obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the
bond. In all cases, the surety's liability is limited to the per-occurrence and
annual aggregate penal sums.

D. Owners and operators who use a surety bond to satisfy the requirements
of R18-12-303 shall establish a standby trust fund when the surety bond is
acquired. Under the terms of the bond, all amounts paid by the surety under
the bond shall be deposited directly into the standby trust fund in
accordance with instructions from the Director under R18-12-322. This
standby trust fund shall meet the requirements specified in R18-12-313.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-309 Letter of Credit (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-309. Letter of Credit

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
obtaining an irrevocable standby letter of credit that conforms to the
requirements of this Section. The issuing institution shall be an entity that
has the authority to issue letters of credit in this state and whose letter of
credit operations are regulated and examined by a federal or state agency.

B. The letter of credit shall be worded as provided in 40 CFR 280.99(b),
amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in brackets are to
be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted.

C. Owners and operators who use a letter of credit to satisfy the
requirements of R18-12-303 shall also establish a standby trust fund when
the letter of credit is acquired. Under the terms of the letter of credit, all
amounts paid pursuant to a draft by the Director shall be deposited by the
issuing institution directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with
instructions from the Director under R18-12-322. This standby trust fund
shall meet the requirements specified in R18-12-313.

D. The letter of credit shall be irrevocable with a term specified by the
issuing institution. The letter of credit shall provide that credit be
automatically renewed for the same term as the original term unless, at least
120 days before the current expiration date, the issuing institution notifies
the owner or operator by certified mail of its decision not to renew the letter
of credit. Under the terms of the letter of credit, the 120 days shall begin on
the date when the owner or operator receives the notice, as evidenced by the
return receipt.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-310 Certificate of Deposit (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-310. Certificate of Deposit

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the corrective action requirements, but
not the 3rd-party compensation requirements, of R18-12-303 by obtaining
an irrevocable certificate of deposit and preparing a Certification and
Agreement that conforms to the requirements of this Section. The issuing
institution shall meet all of the following:

1. Has the authority to issue certificates of deposit in Arizona,

2. Certificate of deposit operations are regulated and examined by a federal
or state agency,

3. Is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

B. The certificate of deposit may be used for the full required amount of
corrective action coverage. Alternatively, it may be used for part of the
required amount of corrective action coverage when used in combination
with other mechanisms allowed under this Article which provide the
remaining amount of coverage. In all cases, the full required amount of 3rd-
party compensation coverage shall be met with another mechanism or
mechanisms allowed under this Article.

C. Owners and operators who use a certificate of deposit to meet the
corrective action requirements of R18-12-303 shall comply with all of the
following:

1. The certificate of deposit document and the records of the issuing
institution shall designate the Department as the sole payee. The original
certificate of deposit, a blank signature card, and the certification and
agreement executed in accordance with subsection (D) shall be submitted to
the Department. The Department shall return the signature card to the
issuing institution with the current Director's signature and the signature of
an alternative person designated by the Director affixed;

2. If the issuing institution is unwilling or unable to prepare a certificate of
deposit made payable only to the Department, the owner or operator and the
issuing institution shall prepare and execute an assignment in the presence
of a notary public with a copy provided to the issuing institution which
allows only the Department access to the certificate of deposit;

3. The owner or operator's Social Security or Tax Identification number shall
appear on the certificate of deposit;

4. All interest accrued on the certificate of deposit shall be applied back to
the certificate of deposit;
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-310 Certificate of Deposit (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


5. Upon verification by the Department that the requirements of this Article
are met using another mechanism or combination of mechanisms, the
owner or operator may submit a written request to the Director for release of
the certificate of deposit. Within 30 days of receipt of the request from the
owner or operator under this subsection, the Director shall release to the
owner or operator the certificate of deposit and the certification and
agreement.

D. The owner or operator shall prepare, execute, and submit to the
Department and the issuing institution a Certification and Agreement which
shall be worded as shown in Appendix A except that instructions in brackets
are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted.

E. The certificate of deposit shall be irrevocable with an automatically
renewable term, the length of which may be specified by owners and
operators. The initial term and the automatic renewal term shall be stated
on the certificate of deposit.

F. The Department may present for payment any certificate of deposit to the
issuing institution and receive cash if either of the following occur:

1. The owner or operator reports a release in accordance with A.R.S. § 49-
1004 from an underground storage tank covered by the certificate of deposit
and makes a written request to the Director for payment of corrective action
expenses required under A.R.S. § 49-1005. If a request for payment is made
the owner or operator shall submit an invoice for corrective action services
which have been performed as required under A.R.S. § 49-1005;

2. The conditions of R18-12-322(B)(1) exist.

G. The Department shall pay, from funds received from cashing the
certificate of deposit, corrective action expenses if they are determined to be
reasonable and necessary.

H. The Director shall, within 30 days of the date on which the certificate of
deposit is cashed, return to the owner or operator any funds received from
cashing the certificate of deposit which are in excess of the amount of
financial responsibility being demonstrated by the certificate of deposit. The
Director shall place funds received from the certificate of deposit which have
not been used to meet the expenses payable under subsection (G) in the UST
Revolving Fund until such time as they are needed. If upon completion of all
corrective action, as evidenced by a corrective action closure letter issued by
the Department, the costs incurred for corrective action are less than the
amount received from cashing of the certificate of deposit, any excess funds
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-310 Certificate of Deposit (Arizona
             Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


remaining after final payment shall be refunded to the owner or operator
within 30 days of receipt by the Department of a written request for refund.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended effective July 30,
1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective
10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code A Certification and Agreement - Certificate of
      Deposit (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


APPENDIX A. Certification and Agreement - Certificate of
Deposit

(Appendix A adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-311 [Repealed] (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-311. [Repealed]

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Repealed by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
         Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-312 Trust Fund (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-312. Trust Fund

A. Owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
establishing a trust fund that conforms to the requirements of this Section.
The trustee shall be an entity that has the authority to act as a trustee and
whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a federal agency or an
agency of the state in which the fund is established.

B. The wording of the trust agreement shall be identical to the wording
specified in 40 CFR 280.103(b)(1), amended as of October 13, 2015, and
shall be accompanied by a formal certification of acknowledgment as
specified in 40 CFR 280.103(b)(2), amended as of October 13, 2015.

C. The trust fund, when established, shall be funded for the full required
amount of coverage, or funded for part of the required amount of coverage
and used in combination with other mechanisms that provide the remaining
required coverage.

D. If the value of the trust fund is greater than the required amount of
coverage, the owner or operator may submit a written request to the
Director for release of the excess.

E. If other financial assurance as specified in the Sections R18-12-305
through R18-12-311 and R18-12-314 through R18-12-317 is substituted for all
or part of the trust fund, the owner or operator may submit a written request
to the Director for release of the excess.

F. Within 60 days after receiving a request from the owner or operator for
release of funds as specified in subsections (D) or (E) the Director shall
instruct the trustee to release to the owner or operator such funds as the
Director specifies in writing.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-313 Standby Trust Fund (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-313. Standby Trust Fund

A. Owners and operators using any one of the mechanisms authorized by
R18-12-306, R18-12-308, and R18-12-309 shall establish a standby trust
fund when the mechanism is acquired. The trustee of the standby trust fund
shall be an entity that has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust
operations are regulated and examined by a federal agency or an agency of
the state in which the fund is established.

B. The standby trust agreement shall be worded as provided in 40 CFR
280.103(b) (1) and 40 CFR 280.103(b)(2), amended as of October 13, 2015,
except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant
information and the brackets deleted.

C. The Director shall instruct the trustee to refund the balance of the
standby trust fund to the provider of financial assurance if the Director
determines that no additional corrective action costs or 3rd-party liability
claims will occur as a result of a release covered by the financial assurance
mechanism for which the standby trust fund was established.

D. Owners and operators may establish one standby trust fund as the
depository mechanism for all funds assured in compliance with this Article.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-314 Local Government Bond Rating
        Test (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-314. Local Government Bond Rating Test

A. General purpose local government owners and operators or a local
government serving as a guarantor that has the legal authority to issue
general obligation bonds may satisfy the requirements of R18-12-303 by
having a currently outstanding issue or issues of general obligation bonds of
$1 million or more, excluding refunded, with a Moody's rating of Aaa, Aa, A,
or Baa, or a Standard & Poor's rating of AAA, AA, A, or BBB. If a local
government has multiple outstanding issues, or if a local government's
bonds are rated by both Moody's and Standard and Poor's, the lowest rating
shall be used to determine eligibility. Bonds that are backed by credit
enhancement other than municipal bond insurance may not be considered
in determining the amount of applicable bonds outstanding.

B. Local government owners and operators or a local government serving as
a guarantor that is not a general purpose local government and does not
have the legal authority to issue general obligation bonds may satisfy the
requirements of R18-12-303 by having a currently outstanding issue or
issues of revenue bonds of $1 million or more, excluding refunded issues
and by also having a Moody's rating of Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa, or a Standard &
Poor's rating of AAA, AA, A, or BBB as the lowest rating for any rated
revenue bond issued by the local government. If bonds are rated by both
Moody's and Standard & Poor's, the lower rating for each bond shall be used
to determine eligibility. Bonds that are backed by credit enhancement may
not be considered in determining the amount of applicable bonds
outstanding.

C. Local government owners and operators, or a guarantor, or both, shall
maintain a copy of its bond rating published within the last 12 months by
Moody's or Standard & Poor's.

D. To demonstrate that it meets the local government bond rating test, the
chief financial officer of a general purpose local government owner or
operator, or the guarantor, or both, shall sign a letter worded exactly as
provided in 40 CFR 280.104(d), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that
the instructions in brackets are to be replaced by the relevant information
and the brackets deleted.

E. To demonstrate that it meets the local government bond rating test, the
chief financial officer of a local government owner and operator, or the
guarantor, or both, shall sign a letter worded exactly as provided in 40 CFR
280.104(e), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that the instructions in
brackets are to be replaced by the relevant information and the brackets
deleted.
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-314 Local Government Bond Rating
        Test (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


F. The Director may require reports of financial condition at any time from
local government owners and operators, or the local government guarantor,
or both. If the Director finds, on the basis of such reports or other
information, that the local government owner or operator, or the guarantor,
or both, no longer meets the local government bond rating test requirements
of this Section, the local government owner or operator shall obtain
alternative coverage within 30 days after notification of such a finding.

G. If local government owners and operators using the bond rating test to
provide financial assurance finds that it no longer meets the bond rating test
requirements, the local government owner or operator shall obtain
alternative coverage within 150 days of the change in status.

H. If the local government owner or operator fails to obtain alternate
assurance within 150 days of finding that it no longer meets the
requirements of the bond rating test or within 30 days of notification by the
Director that it no longer meets the requirements of the bond rating test, the
owner or operator shall notify the Director of such failure within 10 days.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-315 Local Government Financial Test
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-315. Local Government Financial Test

A. Local government owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of
R18-12-303 by passing the financial test specified in this Section. To be
eligible to use the financial test, local government owners and operators
shall have the ability and authority to assess and levy taxes or to freely
establish fees and charges. To pass the local government financial test,
owners and operators shall meet the criteria of subsections (B)(2) and (3)
based on year-end financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year.

B. To pass the local government financial test, owners and operators shall
meet all of the following:

1. Local government owners and operators shall have the following
information available, as shown in the year-end financial statements for the
latest completed fiscal year:

a. Total revenues: consists of the sum of general fund operating and non-
operating revenues including net local taxes, licenses and permits, fines and
forfeitures, revenues from use of money and property, charges for services,
investment earnings, sales such as property or publications,
intergovernmental revenues whether or not restricted, and total revenues
from all other governmental funds including enterprise, debt service, capital
projects, and special revenues, but excluding revenues to funds held in a
trust or agency capacity. For purposes of this test, the calculation of total
revenues shall exclude all interfund transfers between funds under the direct
control of the local government using the financial test, liquidation of
investments, and issuance of debt;

b. Total expenditures: consists of the sum of general fund operating and
non-operating expenditures including public safety, public utilities,
transportation, public works, environmental protection, cultural and
recreational, community development, revenue sharing, employee benefits
and compensation, office management, planning and zoning, capital
projects, interest payments on debt, payments for retirement of debt
principal, and total expenditures from all other governmental funds
including enterprise, debt service, capital projects, and special revenues. For
purposes of this test, the calculation of total expenditures shall exclude all
interfund transfers between funds under the direct control of the local
government using the financial test;

c. Local revenues: consists of total revenues, as defined in subsection
(B)(1)(a), minus the sum of all transfers from other governmental entities,
including all monies received from federal, state, or local government
sources;
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-315 Local Government Financial Test
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


d. Debt service: consists of the sum of all interest and principal payments on
all long-term credit obligations and all interest-bearing short-term credit
obligations. It includes interest and principal payments on general
obligation bonds, revenue bonds, notes, mortgages, judgments, and interest
bearing warrants. It excludes payments on non-interest-bearing short-term
obligations, interfund obligations, amounts owed in a trust or agency
capacity, and advances and contingent loans from other governments;

e. Total funds: consists of the sum of cash and investment securities from all
funds, including general, enterprise, debt service, capital projects, and
special revenue funds, but excluding employee retirement funds, at the end
of the local government's financial reporting year. It includes federal
securities, federal agency securities, state and local government securities,
and other securities such as bonds, notes, and mortgages. For purposes of
this test, the calculation of total funds shall exclude agency funds, private
trust funds, accounts receivable, value of real property, and other non-
security assets.

2. The local government's year-end financial statements, if independently
audited, cannot include an adverse auditor's opinion or a disclaimer of
opinion. The local government cannot have outstanding issues of general
obligation or revenue bonds that are rated as less than investment grade.

3. Local government owners and operators shall have a letter signed by the
chief financial officer worded as specified in subsection (C).

C. To demonstrate that it meets the financial test under subsection (B), the
chief financial officer of the local government owner or operator shall sign,
within 120 days of the close of each financial reporting year, as defined by
the 12-month period for which financial statements used to support the
financial test are prepared, a letter worded exactly as provided in 40 CFR
280.105(c), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that the instructions in
brackets are to be replaced by the relevant information and the brackets
deleted.

D. If local government owners and operators using the test to provide
financial assurance find that it no longer meets the requirements of the
financial test based on the year-end financial statements, the owner or
operator shall obtain alternative coverage within 150 days of the end of the
year for which financial statements have been prepared.

E. The Director may require reports of financial condition at any time from
local government owners and operators. If the Director finds, on the basis of
such reports or other information, that the local government owner or
operator no longer meets the financial test requirements of subsections (B)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-315 Local Government Financial Test
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


and (C), the owner or operator shall obtain alternate coverage within 30
days after notification of such a finding.

F. If the local government owner or operator fails to obtain alternate
assurance within 150 days of finding that it no longer meets the
requirements of the financial test based on the year-end financial statements
or within 30 days of notification by the Director that it no longer meets the
requirements of the financial test, the owner or operator shall notify the
Director of such failure within 10 days.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-316 Local Government Guarantee
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-316. Local Government Guarantee

A. Local government owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of
R18-12-303 by obtaining a guarantee that conforms to the requirements of
this Section. The guarantor shall be either the state in which the local
government owner or operator is located or a local government having a
"substantial governmental relationship" with the owner or operator and
issuing the guarantee as an act incident to that relationship. A local
government acting as the guarantor shall meet the requirements of one of
the following:

1. Demonstrate that it meets the bond rating test requirements of R18-12-
314 and deliver a copy of the chief financial officer's letter as contained in
R18-12-314(D) or R18-12-314(E) to the local government owner or operator;

2. Demonstrate that it meets the financial test requirements of R18-12-315
and deliver a copy of the chief financial officer's letter as contained in R18-
12-315(C) to the local government owner or operator;

3. Demonstrate that it meets the local government fund requirements of
R18-12-317(A)(1), R18-12-317(A)(2) or R18-12-317(A)(3) and deliver a copy
of the chief financial officer's letter as contained in R18-12-317(B) to the
local government owner or operator.

B. If the local government guarantor is unable to demonstrate financial
assurance under R18-12-314, R18-12-315, R18-12-317(A)(1), R18-12-
317(A)(2) or R18-12-317(A)(3), at the end of the financial reporting year, the
guarantor shall send by certified mail, before cancellation or non-renewal of
the guarantee, notice to the owner or operator. The guarantee will terminate
no less than 120 days after the date the owner or operator receives the
notification, as evidenced by the return receipt. The owner or operator shall
obtain alternative coverage as specified in R18-12-318.

C. The guarantee agreement shall be worded as specified in subsection (D)
or (E), depending on which of the following alternative guarantee
arrangements is selected:

1. If, in the default or incapacity of the owner or operator, the guarantor
guarantees to fund a standby trust as directed by the Director, the guarantee
shall be worded as specified in subsection (D);

2. If, in the default or incapacity of the owner or operator, the guarantor
guarantees to make payments as directed by the Director for taking
corrective action or compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury and property
damage, the guarantee shall be worded as specified in subsection (E).
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-316 Local Government Guarantee
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


D. If the guarantor is a state, the "local government guarantee with standby
trust made by a state" shall be worded exactly as provided in 40 CFR
280.106(d), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in
brackets are to be replaced with relevant information and the brackets
deleted. If the guarantor is a local government, the "local government
guarantee with standby trust made by a local government" shall be worded
exactly as provided in 40 CFR 280.106(d), amended as of October 13, 2015,
except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with relevant
information and the brackets deleted.

E. If the guarantor is a state, the "local government guarantee without
standby trust made by a state" shall be worded exactly as provided in 40
CFR 280.106(e), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in
brackets are to be replaced with relevant information and the brackets
deleted. If the guarantor is a local government, the "local government
guarantee without standby trust made by a local government" shall be
worded exactly as provided in 40 CFR 280.106(e), amended as of October
13, 2015, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with relevant
information and the brackets deleted.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-317 Local Government Fund (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-317. Local Government Fund

A. Local government owners and operators may satisfy the requirements of
R18-12-303 by establishing a dedicated fund account that conforms to the
requirements of this Section. Except as specified in subsection (A)(2), a
dedicated fund may not be commingled with other funds or otherwise used
in normal operations. A dedicated fund shall be considered eligible if it
meets one of the following requirements:

1. The fund is dedicated by state constitutional provision, or local
government statute, charter, ordinance, or order to pay for taking corrective
action and for compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury and property
damage caused by accidental releases arising from the operation of
petroleum underground storage tanks and is funded for the full amount of
coverage required under R18-12-303, or funded for part of the required
amount of coverage and used in combination with other mechanisms that
provide the remaining coverage;

2. The fund is dedicated by state constitutional provision, or local
government statute, charter, ordinance, or order as a contingency fund for
general emergencies, including taking corrective action and compensating
3rd parties for bodily injury and property damage caused by accidental
releases arising from the operation of petroleum underground storage tanks,
and is funded for five times the full amount of coverage required under R18-
12-303, or funded for part of the required amount of coverage and used in
combination with other mechanisms that provide the remaining coverage. If
the fund is funded for less than five times the amount of coverage required
under R18-12-303, the amount of financial responsibility demonstrated by
the fund may not exceed 1/5 the amount in the fund;

3. The fund is dedicated by state constitutional provision, or local
government statute, charter, ordinance or order to pay for taking corrective
action and for compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury and property
damage caused by accidental releases arising from the operation of
petroleum underground storage tanks. A payment is made to the fund once
every year for seven years until the fund is fully-funded. This seven-year
period is referred to as the "pay-in-period." The amount of each payment
shall be determined by the following formula:

TF - CF / Y

where TF is the total required financial assurance for the owner or operator,
CF is the current amount in the fund, and Y is the number of years
remaining in the pay-in-period, and one of the following is met:
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-317 Local Government Fund (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


a. The local government owner or operator has available bonding authority,
approved through voter referendum, if such approval is necessary prior to
the issuance of bonds, for an amount equal to the difference between the
required amount of coverage and the amount held in the dedicated fund.
This bonding authority shall be available for taking corrective action and for
compensating 3rd parties for bodily injury and property damage caused by
accidental releases arising from the operation of petroleum underground
storage tanks;

b. The local government owner or operator has a letter signed by the state
attorney general stating that the use of the bonding authority will not
increase the local government's debt beyond the legal debt ceilings
established by the relevant state laws. The letter shall also state that prior
voter approval is not necessary before use of the bonding authority.

B. To demonstrate that it meets the requirements of the local government
fund, the chief financial officer of the local government owner or operator,
or guarantor, or both, shall sign a letter worded exactly as provided in 40
CFR 280.107(d), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that the
instructions in brackets are to be replaced by the relevant information and
the brackets deleted.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-318 Substitution of Financial
      Assurance Mechanisms by Owner or Operator (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-318. Substitution of Financial Assurance Mechanisms by
Owner or Operator

A. An owner or operator may substitute any alternate financial assurance
mechanisms as specified in R18-12-305 through R18-12-312 and R18-12-314
through R18-12-317, if at all times the owner or operator maintains an
effective financial assurance mechanism or combination of mechanisms that
satisfies the requirements of R18-12-303.

B. After obtaining alternate financial assurance as specified in R18-12-305
through R18-12-312 and R18-12-314 through R18-12-317, an owner or
operator may cancel a financial assurance mechanism by providing notice to
the provider of financial assurance.

C. Upon replacement of any financial assurance mechanism, the owner or
operator shall forward evidence of financial responsibility and certification
of financial responsibility to the Department as required in R18-12-301(C).

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-319 Cancellation or Nonrenewal by a
 Provider of Financial Assurance (Arizona Administrative Code
                        (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-319. Cancellation or Nonrenewal by a Provider of
Financial Assurance

A. Except as otherwise provided, a provider of financial assurance may
cancel or fail to renew an assurance mechanism by sending a notice of
termination by certified mail to the owner or operator in accordance with
one of the following:

1. Termination of a local government guarantee, guarantee, surety bond, or
letter of credit shall not occur until 120 days after the date on which the
owner or operator receives the notice of termination, as evidenced by the
return receipt;

2. Termination of insurance or risk retention group coverage, or state-
funded assurance, except for non-payment of premium or misrepresentation
by the insured, shall not occur until 60 days after the date on which the
owner or operator receives the notice of termination, as evidenced by the
return receipt. Termination for non-payment of premium or
misrepresentation by the insured shall not occur until a minimum of 10 days
after the date on which the owner or operator receives the notice of
termination, as evidenced by the return receipt.

B. If a provider of financial responsibility cancels or fails to renew for
reasons other than incapacity of the provider as specified in R18-12-324, the
owner or operator shall obtain alternate coverage as specified in this Article
within 60 days after receipt of the notice of termination. If the owner or
operator fails to obtain alternate coverage within 60 days after receipt of the
notice of termination, the owner or operator shall notify the Director of such
failure and submit all of the following:

1. The name and address of the provider of financial assurance,

2. The effective date of termination,

3. The evidence of the financial assurance mechanism subject to the
termination submitted in accordance with R18-12-301.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-320 Reporting by Owner or Operator
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-320. Reporting by Owner or Operator

A. An owner or operator shall submit documented evidence of financial
responsibility as described under R18-12-301(C) to the Director according to
the following:

1. Within 30 days after the owner or operator identifies a release from an
underground storage tank required to be reported under A.R.S. § 49-1004
and the rules promulgated thereunder.

2. If the owner or operator fails to obtain alternate coverage as required by
R18-12-319(B), within 30 days after the owner or operator receives notice of
any one of the following:

a. Commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11
(Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming a provider of financial assurance as a
debtor;

b. Suspension or revocation of the authority of a provider of financial
assurance to issue a financial assurance mechanism;

c. Failure of a guarantor to meet the requirements of the financial test;

d. Other incapacity of a provider of financial assurance.

3. As required by R18-12-305(G) and R18-12-319(B).

B. An owner or operator shall include in the initial or updated Notification
Form a certification of compliance with the financial responsibility
requirements of this Article.

C. The Director may, at any time, require owners and operators to submit
evidence of financial assurance as described in R18-12-301 or other
information relevant to compliance with A.R.S. § § 49-1006 through 49-
1006.02 and this Article.

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123,
effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-321 Repealed (Arizona Administrative
                    Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-321. Repealed

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Repealed effective July
30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-322 Drawing on Financial Assurance
   Mechanisms (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-322. Drawing on Financial Assurance Mechanisms

A. Except as provided in subsection (D), the Director shall require the
guarantor, surety, or institution issuing a letter of credit to place the amount
of funds stipulated by the Director, up to the limit of funds provided by the
financial assurance mechanism, into the standby trust if either of the
following circumstances exist:

1. Occurrence of both of the following circumstances:

a. The owner or operator fails to establish alternate financial assurance
within 60 days after receiving notice of cancellation of the guarantee, surety
bond, letter of credit, or, as applicable, other financial assurance
mechanism; and

b. The Director determines or has reason to believe that a release from an
underground storage tank covered by the financial assurance mechanism
has occurred and so notifies the owner or operator, or the owner or operator
notify the Director pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1004 and the rules promulgated
thereunder of a release from an underground storage tank covered by the
financial assurance mechanism.

2. The conditions of subsections (B)(1), (2), or (3) are satisfied.

B. The Director may draw on a certificate of deposit or standby trust fund
when any of the following occurs:

1. The Director makes a final determination that a release has occurred and
immediate or long-term corrective action for the release is needed, and the
owner or operator, after appropriate notice and opportunity to comply, has
not conducted corrective action as required under A.R.S. § 49-1005 and the
rules promulgated thereunder;

2. The Director receives a certification from the owner or operator and the
3rd-party liability claimant and from attorneys representing the owner or
operator and the 3rd-party liability claimant that a 3rd-party liability claim
should be paid. The certification shall be worded as provided in 40 CFR
280.112(b)(2)(i), amended as of October 13, 2015, except that instructions in
brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets
deleted; or

3. The Director receives a valid final court order establishing a judgment
against the owner or operator for bodily injury or property damage caused
by an accidental release from an underground storage tank covered by
financial assurance under this Article and the Director determines that the
owner or operator has not satisfied the judgment.
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-322 Drawing on Financial Assurance
   Mechanisms (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


C. If the Director determines that the amount of corrective action costs and
3rd-party liability claims eligible for payment under subsection (B) may
exceed the balance of the certificate of deposit or standby trust fund and the
obligation of the provider of financial assurance, the first priority for
payment shall be corrective action costs necessary to protect human health
and the environment. The Director shall pay 3rd-party liability claims in the
order in which the Director receives certifications under subsection (B)(2)
and valid court orders under subsection (B)(3).

D. A governmental entity acting as guarantor under R18-12-316(E), the local
government guarantee without standby trust, shall make payments as
directed by the Director under the circumstances described in subsections
(A), (B), and (C).

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-323 Release from Financial
Responsibility Requirements (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                          Edition))

§ R18-12-323. Release from Financial Responsibility
Requirements

Owners and operators are no longer required to maintain financial
responsibility under this Article for an underground storage tank after the
tank has completed permanent closure or change-in-service in accordance
with the requirements of A.R.S. § 49-1008 and the rules promulgated
thereunder or, if corrective action is required, after corrective action has
been completed and the tank has completed permanent closure or change-
in-service under A.R.S § 49-1008 and the rules promulgated thereunder.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3).)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-324 Bankruptcy or Other Incapacity of
 Owner, Operator, or Provider of Financial Assurance (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-324. Bankruptcy or Other Incapacity of Owner,
Operator, or Provider of Financial Assurance

A. Within 10 days after commencement of a voluntary or involuntary
proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming an owner or
operator as debtor, owners and operators shall notify the Director by
certified mail of such commencement and submit the appropriate forms
listed in R18-12-301 documenting current financial responsibility.

B. Within 10 days after commencement of a voluntary or involuntary
proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming a guarantor
providing financial assurance as debtor, such guarantor shall notify the
owner or operator by certified mail of such commencement as required
under the terms of the guarantee specified in R18-12-306.

C. Within 10 days after commencement of a voluntary or involuntary
proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming a local
government owner or operator as debtor, the local government owner or
operator shall notify the Director by certified mail of such commencement
and submit the appropriate forms listed in R18-12-301 documenting current
financial responsibility.

D. Within 10 days after commencement of a voluntary or involuntary
proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming a guarantor
providing a local government financial assurance as debtor, such guarantor
shall notify the local government owner or operator by certified mail of such
commencement as required under the terms of the guarantee specified in
R18-12-316.

E. An owner or operator who obtains financial assurance by a mechanism
other than the financial test of self-insurance will be deemed to be without
the required financial assurance in the event of a bankruptcy or incapacity of
its provider of financial assurance, or a suspension or revocation of the
authority of the provider of financial assurance to issue a guarantee,
insurance policy, risk retention group coverage policy, surety bond, letter of
credit, or certificate of deposit. The owner or operator shall obtain alternate
financial assurance as specified in this Article within 30 days after receiving
notice of such an event. If the owner or operator does not obtain alternate
coverage within 30 days after such notification, the owner or operator shall
notify the Director.

F. Within 30 days after receipt of notification that a state fund or other state
assurance has become incapable of paying for assured corrective action costs
or 3rd-party liability compensation, owners and operators shall obtain
alternate financial assurance.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-324 Bankruptcy or Other Incapacity of
 Owner, Operator, or Provider of Financial Assurance (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-325 Replenishment of Guarantees,
 Letters of Credit, or Surety Bonds (Arizona Administrative Code
                          (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-325. Replenishment of Guarantees, Letters of Credit, or
Surety Bonds

A. If a standby trust is funded upon the instruction of the Director with
funds drawn from a guarantee, local government guarantee with standby
trust, letter of credit, or surety bond, and if the amount in the standby trust
is reduced below the full amount of coverage required, the owner or
operator shall by the anniversary date of the financial mechanism from
which the funds were drawn:

1. Replenish the value of financial assurance to equal the full amount of
coverage required; or

2. Acquire another financial assurance mechanism for the amount by which
funds in the standby trust have been reduced.

B. For purposes of this Section, the full amount of coverage required is the
amount of coverage to be provided under R18-12-303. If a combination of
mechanisms was used to provide the assurance funds which were drawn
upon, replenishment shall occur by the earliest anniversary date among the
mechanisms.

(Adopted effective July 30, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended by final rulemaking
at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-401 Repealed (Arizona Administrative
                    Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-401. Repealed

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted with changes
effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Repealed effective July 30, 1996
(Supp. 96-3).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-402 Duties and Responsibilities of a
Supplier; Certain Regulated Substances (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-402. Duties and Responsibilities of a Supplier; Certain
Regulated Substances

The duties and responsibilities of a supplier with respect to a regulated
substance that is refined, manufactured, produced, compounded, or blended
in this state, or imported into this state by the supplier, as described by this
Article are imposed only to the extent that the regulated substance is also
aviation fuel, diesel, or motor vehicle fuel.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted with changes
effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-403 Periodic Payments; Deductions
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-403. Periodic Payments; Deductions

A. On or before the 25th day of each month, a supplier shall pay to the
Director of the Department of Transportation an amount equal to one cent
for each gallon of regulated substance which is refined, manufactured,
produced, compounded, or blended in this state or imported into this state
by the supplier during the preceding month.

B. A supplier may deduct from the payments required to be made under
subsection (A) either or both of the following amounts:

1. An amount equal to the product of one cent multiplied by the number of
gallons of regulated substance sold or delivered to a person to whom an
exemption certificate has been issued pursuant to R18-12-410(C) or to
whom an exemption certificate number has been assigned pursuant to R18-
12-410(D) during the month for which the supplier is making a payment.

2. An amount equal to the sum of the amounts of refunds approved by the
Department under R18-12-409 and submitted to the Department of
Transportation during the month for which the supplier is making a
payment.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted effective
December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4).)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-404 Reporting requirements for
     suppliers (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-404. Reporting requirements for suppliers

A. On or before the 25th day of each month, a supplier shall submit a
monthly summary report on forms prescribed by the Department pursuant
to subsection (B) indicating all gallons acquired and sold by that supplier
during the preceding month. A supplier shall submit a monthly summary
report even if the supplier is not making a payment as described in R18-12-
403. The monthly report shall be accompanied by schedules prescribed for
the purpose of obtaining detailed information about the gallons acquired
and sold by that supplier. The forms and schedules shall be prescribed by
the Department and may include forms and schedules prescribed by the
Department of Transportation for the administration of the motor vehicle
fuel tax. A written or computerized report setting forth all information
required on the prescribed forms and schedules will be accepted in lieu of a
report on the prescribed form. The report and schedules shall contain the
following information:

1. The number of gallons in the supplier's inventory at the beginning of the
reporting period.

2. The number of gallons brought into Arizona during the report period for
which the supplier is reporting and for which the supplier is paying tax,
including date shipped, the name of the person from whom the regulated
substance was acquired, the shipping point, manifest or pipeline shipment
number, Arizona destination, and type of regulated substance.

3. The number of gallons blended or compounded in Arizona during the
report period that the supplier is reporting and on which the supplier is
paying tax, including date blended or compounded, and the types of
constituent substances being blended or compounded.

4. The number of gallons which are tax due.

5. The number of gallons acquired tax paid during the report period
including date shipped, shipping point, name and account number of
supplier, invoice number, Arizona destination, and type of regulated
substance.

6. The total number of gallons that are tax due and tax paid.

7. The number of gallons sold tax paid to suppliers during the report period,
including date shipped, shipping point, name and account number of
supplier, invoice number, Arizona destination, and type of regulated
substance.
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-404 Reporting requirements for
     suppliers (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


8. The number of gallons sold as tax exempt sales during the report period,
including date sold, name of person claiming exempt sale, delivery address
of regulated substance sold, exemption certificate number utilized for sale,
invoice number, and type of regulated substance.

9. The number of gallons sold to underground storage tank owners during
the report period, including total gallons for each type of regulated
substance sold.

10. The number of gallons sold exported to destinations outside of Arizona
during the report period including date sold, Arizona shipping point, name
of purchaser outside of Arizona, invoice number, out-of-state destination
and type of regulated substance.

11. The number of gallons of regulated substance sold or exported.

12. The ending book inventory indicating the gallon difference between the
number of gallons received tax due and tax paid and the number of gallons
sold or exported.

13. The ending physical inventory indicating the number of gallons in the
person's inventory at the end of the report period including location of
Arizona storage.

14. The gallon difference between ending book inventory and ending
physical inventory.

B. The monthly report described in subsection (A) is considered to be the
return form required by A.R.S. § 28-6003(A).

C. On or before March 31 of any year, each supplier shall submit to the
Department of Transportation an annual report indicating the name and
owner identification number of each underground storage tank owner or
operator to whom the supplier made a sale during the preceding calendar
year and the total number of gallons sold annually to that owner or operator
by type of regulated substance. The Department of Transportation, for good
cause, may extend the time for making the annual report required by this
subsection.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted with changes
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-404 Reporting requirements for
     suppliers (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final rulemaking at
25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-405 Invoice requirement for suppliers
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-405. Invoice requirement for suppliers

Except as otherwise provided in R18-12-410(E), a supplier shall provide the
underground storage tank excise tax associated with that sale, stated as a
separate item, on the invoice for each sale of a regulated substance:

..

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted effective
December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R.
3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-406 Reports and Returns, Net Gallons
 Required to be Indicated (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                           Edition))

§ R18-12-406. Reports and Returns, Net Gallons Required to be
Indicated

All reports and returns submitted pursuant to this Article shall indicate net
gallons in any instance where the number of gallons of regulated substances
are required to be reported.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted effective
December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-407 Payment of Tax; Annual Return
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-407. Payment of Tax; Annual Return

A. A taxpayer shall pay the tax as measured by the quantity of regulated
substances placed in an underground storage tank owned or operated by the
taxpayer in any calendar year. The tax shall be paid at the rate of one cent
for each gallon of regulated substance.

B. The tax is due and payable annually on or before March 31 for the
preceding calendar year. The tax is delinquent if it is not postmarked on or
before that date or if it is not received by the Department on or before March
31 for taxpayers electing to file in person.

C. At the time that the tax is paid, the taxpayer shall prepare and file with
the tax an annual return on a form prescribed by the Director. The taxpayer
shall provide all of the following information:

1. The owner identification number of the owner of the tank.

2. The taxpayer's name and address, including street number and name,
post office box, city, state, county, and zip code.

3. The time period covered by the return.

4. The total number of storage facilities reported on by the return.

5. The types of regulated substances placed in underground storage tanks
during the calendar year covered by the return.

6. The total number of gallons of regulated substances, by type and by
facility identification number, placed in underground storage tanks during
the calendar year covered by the return.

7. The supplier identification number of each supplier from whom the
taxpayer received regulated substances which were placed in underground
storage tanks.

8. The tax due, by type of regulated substance.

9. The tax paid, by type of regulated substance.

10. Any credits or refunds claimed, by type of regulated substance and by
exemption certificate number.

11. The total tax due.

D. The taxpayer shall sign a sworn statement or otherwise certify, under
penalty of perjury, that the information contained in the return is true,
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-407 Payment of Tax; Annual Return
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


complete, and correct according to the best belief and knowledge of the
taxpayer filing the report.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently with changes adopted
effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-408 Statement of tax responsibility
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-408. Statement of tax responsibility

The tax shall be collected from the owner of an underground storage tank
unless the owner and the operator of the underground storage tank file a
statement with the Department designating the operator as primarily
responsible for the tax.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently adopted effective
December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R.
3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-409 Refunds (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-409. Refunds

A. Any person who pays the tax but is not liable for the tax under A.R.S. Title
49, Chapter 6 may claim a refund of the tax paid.

B. A claim for a refund shall be submitted on forms prescribed by the
Director. A person claiming a refund shall provide the following
information:

1. The name, address and telephone number of the person claiming the
refund.

2. The facility name.

3. The facility location.

4. The supplier identification number.

5. The type of regulated substances.

6. The number of gallons of regulated substances.

7. The date of the transaction for which the refund is claimed or the time
period covered if the claim involves more than one transaction.

8. The reason justifying the payment of a refund.

9. The amount of tax paid and supporting documentation for the amount of
refund claimed, including an invoice showing the tax paid as required by
R18-12-405.

C. The person claiming the refund shall sign a sworn statement or otherwise
certify, under penalty of perjury, that the information contained in the
return is true, complete and correct.

D. If the Department determines that a person claiming a refund is entitled
to the refund, the Department shall issue a refund payment. A person who
has been denied a refund by the Department may request a hearing on the
denial within 30 days after receiving notice of the denial. The hearing shall
be conducted pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1092.03 et seq .

E. Any person eligible to claim a refund of the tax may assign the claim to
the person from whom the regulated substance was purchased. The assignee
of the claim may claim the refund if the assignor of the claim certifies in
writing to the assignee on forms prescribed by the Director that the assignor
relinquishes all interest in the refund and will not also claim a refund from
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-409 Refunds (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


the Director. A copy of an invoice corresponding to the sale for which an
assignment of a refund is sought shall accompany any assignment.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently with changes adopted
effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final rulemaking at
25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-410 Exemption certificates (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-410. Exemption certificates

A. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (D), any person who has
claimed and has been awarded a refund of tax paid may apply for and be
issued an exemption certificate as provided in this Section.

B. An application for an exemption certificate shall be submitted on a form
prescribed by the Director. A person applying for an exemption certificate
shall provide the following information:

1. The name, address, email, tax identification number, and telephone
number of the person applying for the exemption certificate.

2. The facility name and the facility location of the storage facility for which
the exemption certificate is sought, including the county, telephone number,
and email.

3. The reason justifying the issuance of an exemption certificate.

4. A photo of each aboveground storage tank.

C. If the Department determines that the person applying for an exemption
certificate is not liable for paying the tax, the Department shall issue the
exemption certificate. A person who has been denied an exemption
certificate may request a hearing on the denial within 30 days after receiving
notice of the denial. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-
1092.03 et seq .

D. The following exemption certificate numbers are established to
characterize the following circumstances:

1. Deliveries to storage facilities in Indian country: 00-0100001.

2. Deliveries to state-owned storage facilities: 00-0200002.

3. Deliveries to federally owned storage facilities: 00-0300003.

E. A supplier shall not include the tax in the amounts charged by the
supplier for deliveries of regulated substances if the person to whom the
regulated substances are delivered presents a valid exemption certificate.

(Temporary rule adopted effective July 3, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-
1031(H) and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-3). Temporary rule
readopted effective December 28, 1990, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H)
and (I), effective for 180 days (Supp. 90-4). Temporary rule readopted
effective June 28, 1991, pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1031(H) and (I), effective for
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-410 Exemption certificates (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


180 days (Supp. 91-2). Temporary rule permanently with changes adopted
effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final rulemaking at
25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-501 Fees (Arizona Administrative Code
                        (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-501. Fees

A. Each owner and operator of an underground storage tank who is required
by A.R.S. § 49-1020 to pay annually to the Department a fee of $100.00 for
each tank shall make the required payment on or before March 15 of each
year.

B. For any check or other instrument used to pay the annual fees described
in this Section that is returned to the Department as dishonored by the
drawer's financial institution, the owner and operator of the tank shall pay a
charge of $12.00.

C. An owner and operator of an underground storage tank may request in
writing that the Department approve an alternate schedule for paying the fee
required by A.R.S. § 49-1020. The Department will approve an alternate
schedule if the following conditions are met:

1. The owner and the operator request and receive approval of the schedule
from the Department before March 15 of the year for which the schedule is
requested.

2. Each partial payment made under the schedule shall be equal to at least
25% of the total payment due on March 15.

3. The first partial payment is made on March 15 of the year for which the
schedule is requested.

4. The total amount due is paid by September 15 of the year for which the
schedule is requested.

(Adopted effective December 26, 1991 (Supp. 91-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-601 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-601. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective
December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Section repealed; new Section made by final
rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section
expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October
10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-602 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-602. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-603 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-603. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-604 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-604. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-605 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-605. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-605.01 Repealed (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-605.01. Repealed

(Adopted under an exemption from A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6 pursuant to
A.R.S. § 49-1014, and § § 49-1052(B) and (O), effective August 15, 1996
(Supp. 96-3). Section repealed by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611,
effective June 4, 2006 (Supp. 06-2).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-606 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-606. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-607 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-607. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Amended effective
September 14, 1995 (Supp. 95-3). Section repealed; New Section made by
final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006 (Supp. 06-2).
Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective
October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-607.01 Repealed (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-607.01. Repealed

(Adopted under an exemption from A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6 pursuant to
A.R.S. § 49-1014, and § § 49-1052(B) and (O), effective August 15, 1996
(Supp. 96-3). Section repealed by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611,
effective June 4, 2006 (Supp. 06-2).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-608 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-608. Expired

(Emergency rule adopted effective September 21, 1992, pursuant to A.R.S. §
41-1026, valid for only 90 days (Supp. 92-3). Emergency expired.
Emergency rule adopted again effective January 13, 1993, pursuant to A.R.S.
§ 41-1026, valid for only 90 days (Supp. 93-1). Adopted permanently with
changes effective April 15, 1993 (Supp. 93-2). Section repealed; New Section
made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006 (Supp.
06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428,
effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
   Ariz. Admin. Code A Repealed (Arizona Administrative Code
                        (2021 Edition))


APPENDIX A. Repealed

(Emergency rule adopted effective September 21, 1992, pursuant to A.R.S. §
41-1026, valid for only 90 days (Supp. 92-3). Emergency expired.
Emergency rule adopted again effective January 13, 1993, pursuant to A.R.S.
§ 41-1026, valid for only 90 days (Supp. 93-1). Adopted permanently with
changes effective April 15, 1993 (Supp. 93-2). Appendix A repealed by final
rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006 (Supp. 06-2).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-609 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-609. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-610 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-610. Expired

(Adopted effective September 21, 1992 (Supp. 92-3). Section repealed; New
Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4, 2006
(Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R.
3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-611 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-611. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4,
2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-612 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-612. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4,
2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-613 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-613. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4,
2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-614 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-614. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4,
2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-615 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-615. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 12 A.A.R. 1611, effective June 4,
2006 (Supp. 06-2). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-701 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-701. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-702 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-702. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-703 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-703. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-704 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-704. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-705 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-705. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective October
21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-706 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-706. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective October
21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-707 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-707. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended under an
exemption from A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6 pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-1014, and
§ § 49-1052(B) and (O), effective August 15, 1996 (Supp. 96-3). Amended
effective October 21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. §
41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-708 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-708. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-709 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-709. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-710 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-710. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective October
21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-711 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-711. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-712 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-712. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective October
21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-713 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-713. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Section expired pursuant to
A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23 A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-
4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-714 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-714. Expired

(Adopted effective May 23, 1996 (Supp. 96-2). Amended effective October
21, 1998 (Supp. 98-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
       Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-801 Applicability (Arizona
               Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-801. Applicability

A. A person shall not perform tank service on an underground storage tank
system unless the person is certified under this Article by the Department or
is supervised by a person certified under this Article by the Department in
accordance with R18-12-802 or R18-12-806. The certification requirements
of this Article shall not apply to the site assessment or sampling
requirements of this Chapter.

B. A person who performs or supervises tank service shall present to the
Department proof of certification when requested by the Department.

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-802 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-802. Expired

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Section expired pursuant
to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 22 A.A.R. 2983, effective September 15, 2016
(Supp. 16-3).)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-803 Categories of Certification
           (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-803. Categories of Certification

The Department may certify a person who performs or supervises tank
service in any one or more of the following categories:

1. Installation and retrofit of an UST,

2. Tightness testing of an UST,

3. Cathodic protection testing of an UST,

4. Decommissioning of an UST,

5. Interior lining of an UST.

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4).)
    Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-804 International Code Council
        Certification; Manufacturer Certification (Arizona
                Administrative Code (2021 Edition))

§ R18-12-804. International Code Council Certification;
Manufacturer Certification

A person qualifies for certification by the Department as a tank service
provider if the following conditions are met:

1. The person holds certification from ICC for the category of certification
being sought.

2. If required by the manufacturer, the person holds a manufacturer's
certification for the use of a piece of equipment or methodology in addition
to holding the ICC certification for the category of certification being sought.

3. The person submits evidence of qualification under this Section for the
category of certification being sought in accordance with R18-12-806(B)(3).

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-805 Alternative Certification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-805. Alternative Certification

A. A person qualifies for certification by the Department as a tank service
provider under this Section if the requirements of R18-12-804(1) cannot be
met because an ICC certification is not available for the category of
certification being sought and all of the following conditions exist:

1. The manufacturer of the technology has a process for certification of tank
service providers and the person seeking qualification under this Section has
received the manufacturer's certification.

2. The manufacturer's certification is based on training or examination that
evaluates competency specific to the category of tank service;

3. The certification training or examination emphasizes the applicable codes
of practice found in A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6 and the rules promulgated
thereunder;

4. The tank service technology is protective of human health and the
environment;

5. The person submits evidence of qualification under this subsection for the
category of certification being sought in accordance with R18-12-806(B)(3).

B. A person qualifies for certification by the Department for the category of
cathodic protection tester without holding an ICC certification if all the
following conditions exist:

1. The person holds certification by the National Association of Corrosion
Engineers as a "corrosion specialist, " "cathodic protection specialist, "
"senior corrosion technologist, " or a "corrosion technologist."

2. The person submits evidence of qualification under this subsection in
accordance with R18-12-806(B)(3).

C. If certification is developed by ICC for a category that has been previously
certified under subsection (A) of this Section, the ICC certification shall be
required. The Department shall notify, in writing, all tank service providers
certified for that category of the existence of the replacement ICC
certification. A certified tank service provider will have 90 days from the
date of receipt of notice from the Department to obtain the ICC certification
under R18-12-804. Alternative certification under this Section is void 91
days after the tank service provider is notified that the ICC certification is
required for certification under this Article.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-805 Alternative Certification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-806 Application; Certification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-806. Application; Certification

A. Except as provided in R18-12-802, a person who seeks to supervise or
perform any category of tank service under R18-12-803 shall obtain and
submit a completed application to the Department on the form prescribed
by the Department. A person who seeks certification for more than one
category shall submit a separate application form for each category.

B. A completed application form shall include all the following information:

1. Name, address (mail and physical), telephone number (home and
business), aliases, and employer;

2. Name of the category of tank service for which certification is sought;

3. Proof of qualification as described in R18-12-804 or R18-12-805 for the
category of tank service for which certification is being sought;

4. A 1 inch by 1 inch color portrait of the applicant or alternatively, an
emailed photo to serviceprovider@azdeq.gov;

5. A certification statement that the information submitted pursuant to this
subsection is true, accurate, and complete.

C. The Department shall either grant or deny certification within an overall
time-frame of 30 days after receipt of an application as evidenced by the
date stamped on the application by the Department upon receipt. Within 15
days of receipt of the application, the Department shall issue, by certified
mail or email, if an email is available, a notice of deficiency if the application
is not administratively complete. If the deficiency is not cured within 30
days of the applicant's receipt of a notice of deficiency, as evidenced by the
return receipt or or a returned email receipt, the application is denied and
re-application is required for certification. If the application is
administratively complete, the Department shall have the remaining
number of the total of 30 days for substantive review of the application to
either issue a certification card or deny the application. If an application is
denied, a hearing may be requested pursuant to A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6,
Article 10. If the Department issues a written notice of deficiencies within
the administrative completeness time-frame, the administrative
completeness review time-frame and the overall time-frame are suspended
from the date the notice is issued until the date that the Department receives
the missing information from the applicant. The date the Department
receives the missing information is determined by the date received stamp
on the missing information.
Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-806 Application; Certification (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
   Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-807 Duration; Renewal; Changes
          (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-807. Duration; Renewal; Changes

A. Certification under this Article shall be issued for two years unless the
qualifying certification under R18-12-804 or R18-12-805 is valid for a period
of time less than two years. Certification expires either at the expiration of
the qualifying certification under R18-12-804 or one year following issuance
of certification under R18-12-806, whichever is later. Certification under
R18-12-805 requirements shall be for the period allowed under the
technology manufacturer's certification or two years, whichever is shorter,
but in no event for a period of time less than one year.

B. A person seeking renewal of certification shall submit to the Department
an application form, in accordance with the provisions of R18-12-806.

C. The tank service provider shall notify the Department of any change to
the information reported in the application form on file with the
Department, by submitting a new application form within 30 days after the
change.

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-808 Discontinuation of Tank Service
         (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-808. Discontinuation of Tank Service

A. If the Department discovers that a supervisor or provider of tank service
has supervised or performed tank service in Arizona without the
Department certification required under this Article, or the tank service
supervised or performed by a certified person is not in compliance with
A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6, and this Chapter, the Department shall
immediately notify the person performing tank service to stop work and
make the area safe by securing the tank area to prevent bodily injury and
unauthorized access.

B. If the Department stops work pursuant to subsection (A), before work can
continue, a certified tank service provider shall determine if the work
already completed complies with the standards set forth in A.R.S. Title 49,
Chapter 6, and this Chapter and certify the work which meets those
standards.

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-809 Suspension; Revocation of
    Certification (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-809. Suspension; Revocation of Certification

A. If the Department discovers that a tank service provider has falsified
documents to obtain certification under this Article, the Department shall
notify the tank service provider in writing, by certified mail or personal
service, that certification is revoked effective 30 days after receipt of the
notice, as evidenced by the return receipt or documentation of service,
unless a hearing is requested pursuant to A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6, Article
10. The revocation under this subsection shall be for two years. The
Department shall not accept an application from an individual whose
certification has been revoked under this subsection for the revoked
category of certification until the end of the revocation period.

B. If the Department discovers that a tank service provider has not
performed tank service in compliance with A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6 and
this Chapter, the Department shall notify the tank service provider in
writing, by certified mail or personal service, that certification is suspended
for 30 days, effective 30 days after receipt of the notice, as evidenced by the
return receipt or documentation of service, unless a hearing is requested
pursuant to A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6, Article 10.

C. If the Department discovers that a tank service provider has not
performed tank service in compliance with A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6 and
this Chapter, after the individual has had certification suspended pursuant
to subsection (B), the Department shall notify the tank service provider in
writing, by certified mail or personal service, that certification is suspended
for 90 days, effective 30 days after receipt of the notice as evidenced by the
return receipt or documentation of service, unless a hearing is requested
pursuant to A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6, Article 10. The tank service provider
shall surrender the certification card to the Department within 15 days
following the effective date of the suspension. Failure to surrender the
certification card shall result in revocation of certification for the remainder
of the certification period. The tank service provider may request the
certification card be returned after the 90-day suspension.

D. If the Department discovers that a tank service provider has not
performed tank service in compliance with A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 6 and
this Chapter, after the individual has had certification suspended pursuant
to subsection (C), the Department shall notify the tank service provider in
writing, by certified mail or personal service, that certification is revoked for
two years, effective 30 days after receipt of the notice as evidenced by the
return receipt or documentation of service, unless a hearing is requested
pursuant to A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 6, Article 10. The tank service provider
shall surrender the certification card to the Department within 15 days
following the effective date of the revocation. The Department shall not
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-809 Suspension; Revocation of
    Certification (Arizona Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


accept an application from an individual whose certification has been
revoked under this subsection for the revoked category of certification until
the end of the revocation period.

E. The Department shall publish, on a quarterly basis, a list of all tank
service providers who have received suspension or revocation pursuant to
this Section during that quarter or whose revocation or suspension remains
in effect for any portion of that quarter.

(Adopted effective December 6, 1996 (Supp. 96-4). Amended by final
rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-901 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-901. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605, effective February
2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-902 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-902. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605, effective February
2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
 Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-903 Expired (Arizona Administrative
                     Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-903. Expired

(New Section made by final rulemaking at 13 A.A.R. 4605, effective February
2, 2008 (Supp. 07-4). Section expired pursuant to A.R.S. § 41-1056(J), at 23
A.A.R. 3428, effective October 10, 2017 (Supp. 17-4).)
  Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-951 General Requirements (Arizona
              Administrative Code (2021 Edition))


§ R18-12-951. General Requirements

A. Implementation of requirements. Owners and operators shall comply
with the requirements of this Article for UST systems with field-constructed
tanks and airport hydrant systems as follows:

1. For UST systems installed on or before January 1, 2020, the requirements
are effective according to the following schedule:

                                                                                     Effective
Requirement
                                                                                     Date
                                                                                     March 1,
Upgrading UST systems; general operating requirements; and operator training
                                                                                     2020
                                                                                     March 1,
Release detection
                                                                                     2020
Release reporting, response, and investigation; closure; financial responsibility and January 1,
notification (except as provided in subsection (B) of this Section)                   2020

2. For UST systems installed after January 1, 2020, the requirements apply
at installation.

B. All owners of previously deferred UST systems shall submit a notification
form under R18-222 to the Department and shall demonstrate financial
responsibility at the time of submission of the notification form.

C. Except as provided in R18-12-952, owners and operators shall comply
with the requirements of Articles 1 through 5 and 9 of this Chapter.

D. In addition to the codes of practice listed in R18-12-281, owners and
operators may use military construction criteria, such as "Unified Facilities
Criteria (UFC) 3-460-01, Petroleum Fuel Facilities Design, With Change 2, "
revised 6/17/15, when designing, constructing, and installing airport
hydrant systems and UST systems.

(Adopted by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-952 Additions, Exceptions, and
  Alternatives for Ust Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and
  Airport Hydrant Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                             Edition))
§ R18-12-952. Additions, Exceptions, and Alternatives for UST
Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and Airport Hydrant
Systems

A. Exception to piping secondary containment requirements. Owners and
operators may use single walled piping when installing or replacing piping
associated with UST systems with field-constructed tanks greater than 50,
000 gallons and piping associated with airport hydrant systems.

B. Piping associated with UST systems with field-constructed tanks less than
or equal to 50, 000 gallons not part of an airport hydrant system shall meet
the secondary containment requirement when installed or replaced. Where
the piping to be replaced exceeds the percentage in A.R.S. § 49-1009(C), the
entire piping run shall be secondarily contained.

C. Upgrade requirements. Airport hydrant systems and UST systems with
field-constructed tanks shall meet the following requirements or be
permanently closed pursuant to R18-12-270 through R18-12-274.

1. Corrosion protection. UST system components in contact with the ground
that routinely contain regulated substances shall meet one of the following:

a. Except as provided in subsection (A) of this Section, the new UST system
performance standards for tanks at R18-12-220(A) and for piping at R18-12-
220(B); or

b. Be constructed of metal and cathodically protected according to a code of
practice developed by a nationally recognized association or independent
testing laboratory and meets the following:

i. Cathodic protection shall meet the requirements of R18-12-220(A)(2)(ii),
(iii) and (iv) for tanks, and R18-12-220(B)(2)(ii), (iii), and (iv) for piping.

ii. Tanks greater than 10 years old without cathodic protection shall be
assessed to ensure the tank is structurally sound and free of corrosion holes
prior to adding cathodic protection. The assessment shall be by internal
inspection or another method determined by the Department to adequately
assess the tank for structural soundness and corrosion holes.

Note to subsection (C)(1): The following codes of practice may be used to
comply with this subsection:

(A) NACE International Standard Practice SP0285-2011, "Corrosion Control
of Underground Storage Tank Systems by Cathodic Protection";
     Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-952 Additions, Exceptions, and
  Alternatives for Ust Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and
  Airport Hydrant Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                               Edition))
(B) NACE International Standard Practice SP0169-2013, "Control of
External Corrosion on Underground or Submerged Metallic Piping
Systems";

(C) National Leak Prevention Association Standard 631, Chapter C, "Internal
Inspection of Steel Tanks for Retrofit of Cathodic Protection", 2009 revision;
or

(D) American Society for Testing and Materials Standard G158-98,
"Standard Guide for Three Methods of Assessing Buried Steel Tanks".

2. Spill and overfill prevention equipment. To prevent spilling and
overfilling associated with product transfer to the UST system, all UST
systems with field-constructed tanks and airport hydrant systems shall
comply with new UST system spill and overfill prevention equipment
requirements specified in R18-12-220(C).

D. Walkthrough inspections. In addition to the walkthrough inspection
requirements in R18-12-236, owners and operators shall inspect the
following additional areas for airport hydrant systems at least once every 30
days if confined space entry according to the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (see 29 CFR part 1910) is not required or at least annually if
confined space entry is required and keep documentation of the inspection
according to R18-12-236(B).

1. Hydrant pits - visually check for any damage; remove any liquid or debris;
and check for any leaks, and

2. Hydrant piping vaults - check for any hydrant piping leaks.

E. Release detection. Owners and operators of UST systems with field-
constructed tanks and airport hydrant systems shall meet the release
detection requirements described in this Article as follows:

1. Methods of release detection for field-constructed tanks. Owners and
operators of field-constructed tanks with a capacity less than or equal to 50,
000 gallons shall meet the release detection requirements in R18-12-240
through R18-12-245. Owners and operators of field-constructed tanks with a
capacity greater than 50, 000 gallons shall meet either the requirements in
R18-12-240 through R18-12-245 (except R18-12-243(E) and (F) shall be
combined with inventory control as stated below) or use one or a
combination of the following alternative methods of release detection:

a. Conduct an annual tank tightness test that can detect a 0.5 gallon per
hour leak rate;
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-952 Additions, Exceptions, and
  Alternatives for Ust Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and
   Airport Hydrant Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                                  Edition))
b. Use an automatic tank gauging system to perform release detection at
least every 30 days that can detect a leak rate less than or equal to one gallon
per hour. This method shall be combined with a tank tightness test that can
detect a 0.2 gallon per hour leak rate performed at least every three years;

c. Use an automatic tank gauging system to perform release detection at
least every 30 days that can detect a leak rate less than or equal to two
gallons per hour. This method shall be combined with a tank tightness test
that can detect a 0.2 gallon per hour leak rate performed at least every two
years;

d. Perform vapor monitoring (conducted in accordance with R18-12-243(E)
for a tracer compound placed in the tank system) capable of detecting a 0.1
gallon per hour leak rate at least every two years;

e. Perform inventory control (conducted in accordance with Department of
Defense Directive 4140.25-M, volume 9; ATA Airport Fuel Facility
Operations and Maintenance Guidance Manual, revision 2004.1; or
equivalent procedures) at least every 30 days that can detect a leak equal to
or less than 0.5 percent of flow-through; and

i. Perform a tank tightness test that can detect a 0.5 gallon per hour leak rate
at least every two years; or

ii. Perform vapor monitoring or groundwater monitoring (conducted in
accordance with R18-12-243(E) or (F), respectively, for the stored regulated
substance) at least every 30 days; or

f. Another method approved by the Department if the owner and operator
can demonstrate that the method can detect a release as effectively as any of
the methods allowed in subsections (E)(1)(a) through (e) of this Section. In
comparing methods, the Department shall consider the size of release that
the method can detect and the frequency and reliability of detection.

2. Methods of release detection for piping. Owners and operators of
underground piping associated with field-constructed tanks less than or
equal to 50, 000 gallons shall meet the release detection requirements in
R18-12-240 through R18-12-245. Owners and operators of underground
piping associated with airport hydrant systems and field-constructed tanks
greater than 50, 000 gallons shall follow either the requirements in R18-12-
240 through R18-12-245 (except R18-12-243(E) and (F) shall be combined
with inventory control as stated below) or use one or a combination of the
following alternative methods of release detection:
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-952 Additions, Exceptions, and
   Alternatives for Ust Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and
   Airport Hydrant Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                                Edition))
i. Perform a semiannual or annual line tightness test at or above the piping
operating pressure in accordance with the table below.

Maximum Leak Detection Rate Per Test Section Volume
Test Section
                   Semiannual Test -Leak Detection Rate Annual Test - Leak Detection Rate
Volume
                   Not To Exceed (Gallons Per Hour)     Not To Exceed (Gallons Per Hour)
(Gallons)
< 50, 000          1.0                                      0.5
>= 50, 000 to <
                1.5                                         0.75
75, 000
>= 75, 000 to <
                2.0                                         1.0
100, 000
>= 100, 000        3.0                                      1.5

ii. Piping segment volumes >=100, 000 gallons not capable of meeting the
maximum 3.0 gallon per hour leak rate for the semiannual test may be
tested at a leak rate up to 6.0 gallons per hour according to the following
schedule:

Phase In For Piping Segments >= 100, 000 Gallons In Volume
First test     Not later than March 1, 2020 (may use up to 6.0 gph leak rate)
Second test Between March 1, 2020 and March 1, 2023 (may use up to 6.0 gph leak rate)
Third test     Between March 1, 2023 and March 1, 2024 (may use up to 3.0 gph leak rate)
Subsequent After March 1, 2024, begin using semiannual or annual line testing according to
tests      the Maximum Leak Detection Rate Per Test Section Volume table above

b. Perform vapor monitoring (conducted in accordance with R18-12-243(E)
for a tracer compound placed in the tank system) capable of detecting a 0.1
gallon per hour leak rate at least every two years;

c. Perform inventory control (conducted in accordance with Department of
Defense Directive 4140.25m, volume 9; ATA Airport Fuel Facility
Operations and Maintenance Guidance Manual, revision 2004.1; or
equivalent procedures) at least every 30 days that can detect a leak equal to
or less than 0.5 percent of flow-through; and

i. Perform a line tightness test (conducted in accordance with subsection
(D)(2)(a) of this Section using the leak rates for the semiannual test) at least
every two years; or
      Ariz. Admin. Code R18-12-952 Additions, Exceptions, and
   Alternatives for Ust Systems with Field-Constructed Tanks and
    Airport Hydrant Systems (Arizona Administrative Code (2021
                                  Edition))
ii. Perform vapor monitoring or groundwater monitoring (conducted in
accordance with R18-12-243(E) or (F), respectively, for the stored regulated
substance) at least every 30 days; or

d. Another method approved by the Department if the owner and operator
can demonstrate that the method can detect a release as effectively as any of
the methods allowed in subsections (E)(2)(a) through (c) of this Section. In
comparing methods, the Department shall consider the size of release that
the method can detect and the frequency and reliability of detection.

3. Recordkeeping for release detection. Owners and operators shall maintain
release detection records according to the recordkeeping requirements in
R18-12-245.

F. Applicability of closure requirements to previously closed UST systems.
When directed by the Department, the owner and operator of an UST
system with field-constructed tanks or airport hydrant system permanently
closed before January 1, 2020 shall assess the excavation zone and close the
UST system in accordance with R18-12-270 through R18-12-274 if releases
from the UST may, in the judgment of the Department, pose a current or
potential threat to human health and the environment.

(Adopted by final rulemaking at 25 A.A.R. 3123, effective 10/1/2020.)
