     ARS 49-1001 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))


§ 49-1001. Definitions

In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

1. "Being used" means not having been taken out of operation.

2. "Closure" means the removal of an underground storage tank from
operation.

3. "Corrective actions" means those actions that are prescribed pursuant to
section 49-1005.

4. "Designated representative" means a person to whom an owner or an
operator, or both, assign in writing any right, title or interest that the owner
or operator, or both, may have in and to the proceeds of a reimbursement
for a corrective action made under article 3 of this chapter.

5. "Energy policy act" means the underground storage tank compliance act,
title XV, subtitle B of the energy policy act of 2005 ( P.L. 109-58; 119 Stat.
1092), as amended.

6. "Fiduciary" means:

(a) A trust company or bank certified or authorized to engage in the trust
business pursuant to title 6, chapter 8, article 1.

(b) Any person appointed by a court or testamentary act to act as personal
representative, executor, trustee, administrator, guardian, conservator,
receiver or trustee in bankruptcy.

(c) Any person acting as a trustee of a deed of trust pursuant to section 33-
803.

(d) Any person acting as a trustee pursuant to title 14, chapter 7.

(e) Any person acting pursuant to and subject to fiduciary obligations under
the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( 29 United States Code
sections 1101 through 1114).

7. "Guarantor" means a person, other than an owner or operator, who
provides evidence of financial responsibility for an owner or operator
pursuant to this chapter.

8. "Motor fuel" means petroleum or a petroleum based substance that is
motor gasoline, aviation gasoline, number 1 or number 2 diesel fuel or any
grade of oxygenated gasoline typically used in the operation of a motor
engine.
     ARS 49-1001 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))


9. "New piping component" means any underground pipe or combination of
pipes that contains and conveys a regulated substance between a tank and a
motor fuel dispenser, including any valve, elbow, connector or joint that is
added to an underground storage tank on or after January 1, 2009 and that
was not originally included or installed as part of the underground storage
tank.

10. "Occurrence" means an incident or accident, including continuous or
repeated exposure to conditions, which results in a release from an
underground storage tank.

11. "Operator" means a person in control of, or having responsibility for, the
day-to-day operation of an underground storage tank.

12. "Out of operation" means having been closed in accordance with all
applicable fire codes and other statutory and regulatory requirements for
closure in effect on the date that closure was accomplished.

13. "Person" means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company,
corporation, joint venture, partnership, association, consortium, state,
municipality, interstate body, commission, political subdivision of a state
and the United States government.

14. "Petroleum" means petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction of
crude oil, which is liquid at sixty degrees Fahrenheit and 14.7 pounds per
square inch absolute, and petroleum based substances comprised of a
complex blend of hydrocarbons derived from crude oil through processes of
separation, conversion, upgrading and finishing, such as motor fuels,
residual fuel oils, lubricants, jet fuels, distillate fuel oils, petroleum solvents
and used oils.

15. "Political subdivision" means a county, city, town or other taxing district
other than the state that is authorized to take property by eminent domain.

16. "Regulated substance" means:

(a) Petroleum.

(b) A substance specified in the comprehensive environmental response,
compensation, and liability act of 1980 ( P.L. 96-510; 94 Stat. 2767; 42
United States Code section 9601 (14)) but not including a substance
regulated as a hazardous waste under the hazardous and solid waste
amendments of 1984 ( P.L. 98-616; 98 Stat. 3221).
     ARS 49-1001 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))


17. "Release" means a spill, leak, emission, discharge, escape, leach or
disposal of a regulated substance from an underground storage tank into
groundwater, surface water or soils.

18. "Suspected release" means any of the following:

(a) The discovery by owners and operators or others of released regulated
substances at the underground storage tank site or in the surrounding area.

(b) Erratic behavior of regulated substance dispensing equipment, the
sudden loss of a regulated substance from an underground storage tank, an
unexplained presence of water in the underground storage tank or other
extraordinary operating conditions that could reasonably be associated with
a release from an underground storage tank and that are observed by
owners and operators, unless system equipment is found to be defective but
not leaking and is repaired or replaced immediately.

(c) That the monitoring results from a release detection method required
under 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 280.41 and 280.42, this
chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter indicate that a release may
have occurred unless either of the following occurs:

(i) The monitoring device is found to be defective and is immediately
repaired, recalibrated or replaced and additional monitoring data do not
confirm the initial result.

(ii) In the case of inventory control, a second month of inventory
reconciliation data does not confirm the initial result.

19. "Tank" means a stationary device constructed of wood, concrete, steel,
plastic or other nonearthen materials and used to contain regulated
substances.

20. "Under-dispenser containment" means a secondary containment device
that is beneath a motor fuel dispenser, that is connected to the underground
storage tank and that is designed to be liquid tight.

21. "Underground storage tank" means a tank or combination of tanks and
underground pipes and impact valves connected to tanks being used or
having been used to contain regulated substances and which has at least ten
percent of the total volume of the tank and underground portions of pipes
connected to the tank underground. Underground storage tank does not
mean any of the following:

(a) A farm or residential tank of one thousand one hundred gallons or less
capacity used for storing motor fuel for noncommercial purposes.
     ARS 49-1001 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))


(b) A tank used for storing heating oil for consumptive use on the premises
where stored.

(c) A septic tank.

(d) A pipeline facility, including gathering lines, regulated under either:

(i) The natural gas pipeline safety act of 1968 (49 United States Code
sections 1671 through 1686).

(ii) The hazardous liquid pipeline safety act of 1979 (49 United States Code
section 2001).

(e) An intrastate pipeline facility regulated under a state law comparable to
the provisions of law referred to in subdivision (d), item (i) or (ii) of this
paragraph .

(f) A surface impoundment, pit, pond or lagoon.

(g) A storm water or wastewater collection system.

(h) A flow-through process tank.

(i) A liquid trap or associated gathering lines directly related to oil or gas
production and gathering operations.

(j) A storage tank situated in an underground area, such as a basement,
cellar, mine working, drift, shaft or tunnel, if the storage tank is situated on
or above the surface of the floor.

(k) Pipes connected to any of the structures described in subdivisions (a)
through (j) of this paragraph .

22. "Volunteer" means a property owner or a person other than an owner or
operator that assumes responsibility for corrective actions for a release from
an underground storage tank.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 1, eff. 7/2/2015.)
   ARS 49-1001.01 Definition of owner; rules (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1001.01. Definition of owner; rules

A. In this chapter, "owner" of an underground storage tank means a person
who either:

1. Holds a legal, equitable, or possessory interest of any kind in an
underground storage tank.

2. Held at the time of a release, or immediately before an underground
storage tank was last operated, a legal, equitable or possessory interest of
any kind in the underground storage tank.

B. A person who acquires ownership or control of property where an
underground storage tank is located is not the owner of the underground
storage tank if either of the following applies:

1. The person, after conducting a due diligence investigation immediately
prior to acquiring ownership of the property, did not know and had no
reason to know that the underground storage tank was located on the
property. Due diligence shall consist of performing a phase I environmental
assessment of the property which meets the requirements of ASTM standard
E- 1527-93 or E- 1528-93, or other generally accepted commercial practices
or standards for due diligence performed prior to the adoption of this
standard.

2. The person has not placed regulated substances in the underground
storage tank and has not dispensed regulated substances from the
underground storage tank. For the purposes of this paragraph, dispensing
does not mean emptying the underground storage tank for purpose of
closure.

C. A person who holds indicia of ownership primarily to protect a security
interest in either the petroleum underground storage tank or in the property
on which the petroleum underground storage tank is or was located but who
does not participate in the management of the underground storage tank
and who is not otherwise engaged in petroleum refining or marketing is not
an owner for purposes of this chapter.

D. A person who holds indicia of ownership as prescribed by subsection C of
this section and who acquires ownership or control of a petroleum
underground storage tank through foreclosure of the property where a
petroleum underground storage tank is located shall not be deemed an
owner and shall not be required to investigate a release or take corrective
action in response to a release if the person does all of the following:
   ARS 49-1001.01 Definition of owner; rules (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. Complies with the notification requirements prescribed by section 49-
1002.

2. Complies with the reporting requirements prescribed by section 49-1004,
subsections A and C to the extent that the information is known to the
person at the time of the report.

3. Temporarily or permanently closes the petroleum underground storage
tank as prescribed by section 49-1008.

4. Divests itself of the property in a reasonably prompt manner using
whatever commercially reasonable means are relevant or appropriate with
respect to the property, taking into consideration all of the facts and
circumstances.

E. A fiduciary is not an owner or operator for purposes of this chapter,
except if the appointment of the fiduciary is for the purpose of avoiding
liability under this chapter. This subsection does not preclude claims against
assets held in an estate, a trust or any other fiduciary capacity that contains
an underground storage tank in which regulated substances are placed or
dispensed. Those claims may be asserted against a fiduciary in its
representative capacity without regard to whether the fiduciary is personally
liable, and the liability of the fiduciary is limited to the value of the estate,
trust or other property that is held in a fiduciary capacity. A fiduciary may
not be a fiduciary and grantor of the same fiduciary estate.

F. The director may adopt rules to implement subsection E of this section.
  ARS 49-1002 Notification requirements; exemptions (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1002. Notification requirements; exemptions

A. Except as otherwise provided in this section, each owner of an
underground storage tank shall notify the department in writing and shall
specify the tank's age, size, type, location and use.

B. For an underground storage tank that was taken out of operation on or
before January 1, 1974, regardless of whether the tank was removed from
the ground, the owner is exempt from giving notice.

C. For an underground storage tank that was taken out of operation after
January 1, 1974 but before November 8, 1984 and that was removed from
the ground, the owner is exempt from giving notice.

D. For an underground storage tank that was taken out of operation after
January 1, 1974 but before November 8, 1984 and that was not removed
from the ground, the owner shall specify the type and quantity of the
substances that were stored in the tank immediately before it was taken out
of operation. These requirements are in addition to the requirements for
notice prescribed in subsection A of this section .

E. For an underground storage tank that was taken out of operation after
November 8, 1984 but before December 22, 1988 the director may require
the owner to make reasonable efforts to specify the age, size, location and
use of the tank, the type and quantity of the substances that were stored in
the tank immediately before it was taken out of operation and the date of its
removal from operation.

F. An owner or operator who brings an underground storage tank into
operation shall meet the notification requirements of this section at least
thirty days before bringing the tank into operation. An owner or operator
who brings a new piping component or under-dispenser containment into
operation on or after January 1, 2009 shall meet the notification
requirements of this section within thirty days after the new piping
component or under-dispenser containment is brought into operation.

G. A person who sells a tank for use as an underground storage tank shall
notify the purchaser of the notice requirements of subsection F of this
section and shall provide to the department documentation of the notice
given .

H. The notices required by this section shall be made on forms prescribed by
the department.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 2, eff. 7/2/2015.)
ARS 49-1003 Detection of releases; record keeping requirements
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1003. Detection of releases; record keeping requirements

A. Until the rules adopted pursuant to subsection C are in effect, the owner
and operator of an underground storage tank shall maintain a release
detection system that complies with the requirements of 40 Code of Federal
Regulations sections 280.40 through 280.44.

B. Until the rules adopted pursuant to subsection C are in effect, the owner
and operator of an underground storage tank shall maintain systematic and
complete records of release detection information that complies with the
requirements of 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 280.45.

C. The director shall adopt rules establishing release detection requirements
and release detection record keeping requirements. The rules adopted
pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with and no more stringent
than the federal regulations in effect on the date on which the rules are
adopted.
 ARS 49-1004 Reporting requirements (Arizona Revised Statutes
                       (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1004. Reporting requirements

A. The operator and owner of an underground storage tank shall notify the
department of each release or suspected release from the tank as soon as
practicable but no later than twenty-four hours after the release or suspected
release is detected.

B. The operator of an underground storage tank shall notify the owner of
each release from the tank as soon as practicable but no later than twenty-
four hours after the release is detected.

C. Notice by the operator and owner required by this section may be made
orally or in writing but shall be followed within fourteen days by a written
report to the department that a release or suspected release has been
detected. The written report shall specify to the extent known at the time of
the report the nature of the release or suspected release, the regulated
substance released, the quantity of the release, the period of time over which
the release occurred, the initial response and the corrective action taken as
of the date of the report and anticipated to be taken subsequent to the date
of the report. In addition, the written report shall include additional
information required by rules that are consistent with federal regulations in
effect on the date on which the rules are adopted.

D. The director shall prescribe by rule the reporting, investigation and
confirmation actions to be taken in the event of a release or suspected
release of a regulated substance from an underground storage tank. Any
rules adopted pursuant to this section shall be consistent with and no more
stringent than federal regulations in effect on the date on which the rules are
adopted. Until rules adopted pursuant to this subsection are in effect,
reporting, investigation and confirmation actions shall be accomplished in a
manner consistent with 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 280.50
through 280.53.
 ARS 49-1005 Corrective action (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1005. Corrective action

A. When a release is discovered the owner and operator of an underground
storage tank shall take immediate action to stop the release and to identify
and mitigate any fire, explosion or vapor hazard.

B. The owner or operator of an underground storage tank shall take
corrective action in response to the release of regulated substances from the
tank, except to the extent that this responsibility is limited by section 49-
1016, subsection F or section 49-1019, subsection D. A person may take
corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C.

C. Nothing in this section prevents the director from taking or requiring
corrective action pursuant to any other provision of law.

D. Corrective actions shall:

1. Assure the protection of public health and welfare and the environment.

2. To the extent practicable, provide for the control, management or cleanup
of regulated substances so as to allow the maximum beneficial use of the
water and soil of this state.

3. Be reasonable, necessary, cost-effective and technically feasible.

E. Notwithstanding chapter 2, article 2 of this title, the director may approve
a corrective action that may result in water quality exceeding water quality
standards after completion of the corrective action, if the director finds that
the corrective action meets the requirements of this section. The director's
approval pursuant to this section does not affect the classification of an
aquifer pursuant to section 49-224. The director shall adopt rules to
implement this section. These rules shall include public notice provisions,
criteria for the selection of corrective actions, including the level and extent
of cleanup and the comparison of corrective action alternatives that may
include plume remediation alternatives, monitoring, source control,
controlled migration, physical containment and natural attenuation.

F. The director shall prescribe by rule the corrective actions to be taken in
the event of a release of a regulated substance from an underground storage
tank. Any rules adopted pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with
and no more stringent than federal regulations in effect on the date on
which the rules are adopted. The director shall adopt rules to permit a risk-
based corrective action alternative . Corrective actions shall include
requirements regarding:

1. Initial response measures.
 ARS 49-1005 Corrective action (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


2. Initial abatement measures.

3. A site check.

4. Initial site characterization.

5. Removal of free product.

6. Investigations for soil, surface water and groundwater cleanups.

7. Responses to contaminated soil, surface water and groundwater.

G. Corrective actions may include the use of biostimulation with indigenous
microbes and bioaugmentation using microbes that are nonpathogenic, that
are nonopportunistic and that are naturally occurring.

H. Until rules adopted pursuant to subsection F of this section are in effect,
corrective actions shall be accomplished in a manner consistent with and no
more stringent than 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 280.60
through 280.67.

(Amended by L. 2016, ch. 352,s. 15, eff. 8/5/2016.)
   ARS 49-1006 Statement of financial responsibility (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1006. Statement of financial responsibility

A. If required by regulations adopted pursuant to 42 United States Code
section 6991b(d) to establish evidence of financial responsibility, an owner
and operator shall file with the department a statement of financial
responsibility containing evidence that the owner and operator are
financially capable of taking the actions required by this chapter.

B. Evidence of financial responsibility required by this section shall be
established in a manner prescribed by the director by rule. The rules
adopted pursuant to this section shall be consistent with and no more
stringent than the federal regulations in effect on the date on which the rules
are adopted.
   ARS 49-1006.01 Insurance for releases; termination; notice;
  coverage; assistance (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1006.01. Insurance for releases; termination; notice;
coverage; assistance

A. Beginning on January 1, 2016 and continuing for twenty-four months, if
an owner or operator makes a claim against its insurance or an alternative
financial responsibility mechanism for a release and its claim is denied or
otherwise not paid, the owner or operator shall provide to the department a
copy of the notice of denial or other evidence of nonpayment.

B. If the insurance used to meet the financial responsibility requirements of
this chapter is terminated or not renewed, the insurer shall notify the
department of the termination or nonrenewal within thirty days after the
date of termination or nonrenewal. The notice to the department shall state
the name and address of the insured, the date of termination or nonrenewal
and the address of the facility that had been insured.

C. Before January 1, 2017 or on the insurance contract renewal date,
whichever is earlier, an owner or operator that satisfies financial
responsibility requirements through insurance shall have policy coverage
that extends to one of the following:

1. The date of the most recent baseline assessment conducted pursuant to
section 49-1052 or comparable site characterization as determined by the
department.

2. The date of the underground storage tank system installation.

3. The earliest retroactive coverage date of the previous insurance policy or
alternative financial responsibility mechanism.

D. The department shall assist an owner or operator in pursuing the owner's
or operator's claim against the financial responsibility mechanism and
obtaining coverage for a confirmed release from an underground storage
tank system that is covered by the mechanism.

(Added by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 3, eff. 7/2/2015.)
 ARS 49-1006.02 Insurance primacy; requirements; fund access
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1006.02. Insurance primacy; requirements; fund access

A. For owners or operators that satisfy financial responsibility requirements
through insurance, the following apply:

1. The policy that covers the underground storage tank system at the time
the release is discovered shall be primary to eligibility under sections 49-
1017 and 49-1054.

2. The owner or operator is not required to exhaust insurance coverage in
order to be eligible under sections 49-1017 and 49-1054.

3.except as provided in subsection c of this section, eligibility under sections
49-1017 and 49-1054 is contingent on filing a timely insurance claim under
the policy and pursuing that claim until a denial is received or, after
assistance from the department as prescribed in section 49-1006.01,
subsection D, until the department determines that the claim has been
constructively denied.

4. An owner or operator that fails to pursue an insurance claim is no longer
eligible under sections 49-1017 and 49-1054.

B. An owner or operator that satisfies financial responsibility requirements
through insurance and that will not receive payment from its insurance
provider until after the expenditure of at least fifty thousand dollars per
facility as provided in an insurance policy that is in effect on April 1, 2015 or
that satisfies financial responsibility requirements through an alternative
financial responsibility mechanism is eligible under sections 49-1017 and
49-1054 after meeting a cost sharing obligation by payment of the first fifty
thousand dollars per facility for work that is conducted on or after January 1,
2016. This eligibility is subject to the limits prescribed in section 49-1054,
subsection A and is subject to the preapproval process prescribed in section
49-1051. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION C OF THIS SECTION,
eligibility pursuant to this subsection for owners or operators that meet
financial responsibility requirements through insurance is contingent on
providing timely notice of the release to the insurance carrier under the
policy and that eligibility ends on the date that the insurer is obligated to
provide payment under the policy.

C. AN OWNER OR OPERATOR THAT SATISFIES FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS THROUGH INSURANCE AND THAT
HAD A RELEASE REPORTED BETWEEN JULY 1, 2006 AND DECEMBER
31, 2015, THAT REQUIRES ADDITIONAL CORRECTIVE ACTION IS
ELIGIBLE UNDER SECTIONS 49-1017 AND 49-1054 SUBJECT TO THE
PREAPPROVAL PROCESS PRESCRIBED IN SECTION 49-1051 WITHOUT
 ARS 49-1006.02 Insurance primacy; requirements; fund access
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


FILING A TIMELY CLAIM AGAINST ITS INSURANCE CARRIER IF THE
OWNER OR OPERATOR WAS IN COMPLIANCE WITH FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AT THE TIME OF THE RELEASE.
THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT ELIGIBLE FOR REIMBURSEMENT UNDER
THIS SUBSECTION IS FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS PER
FACILITY AFTER MEETING A COST SHARING OBLIGATION BY
PAYMENT OF THE FIRST FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS PER FACILITY
FOR WORK CONDUCTED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 2016 AND
WITHOUT ANY REDUCTIONS FOR PAYMENTS MADE PURSUANT TO
LAWS 2015, CHAPTER 247, SECTION 25, AS AMENDED BY SECTION 2
OF THIS ACT.

(Amended by L. 2018, ch. 299,s. 1, eff. 8/3/2018. Added by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 3, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1007 Liability of guarantors (Arizona Revised Statutes
                         (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1007. Liability of guarantors

A. If the owner or operator of an underground storage tank files for
protection under the federal bankruptcy laws and with reasonable diligence
jurisdiction in a state court or the federal courts cannot be obtained over an
owner or operator likely to be solvent at the time of judgment, any claim
arising from conduct for which evidence of financial responsibility must be
provided pursuant to section 49-1006 may be asserted directly against the
guarantor. In the case of an action pursuant to this section, the guarantor
may invoke all rights and defenses which would have been available to the
owner or operator against the claimant if an action had been brought against
the owner or operator by the claimant and which would have been available
to the guarantor if an action had been brought against the guarantor by the
owner or operator.

B. The total liability of any guarantor is limited to the aggregate amount
which the guarantor provides to the owner or operator as evidence of
financial responsibility and which the owner or operator provides to the
department pursuant to section 49-1006.

C. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit any other state or
federal statutory, contractual or common law liability of a guarantor to its
owner or operator including, but not limited to, the liability of a guarantor
for bad faith either in negotiating or in failing to negotiate the settlement of
a claim.

D. Nothing in this section shall be construed to diminish the liability of a
person under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation,
and liability act of 1980 ( P.L. 96-510; 94 Stat. 2769; 42 United States Code
sections 9607 or 9611) or other applicable law.
 ARS 49-1008 Closure (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-1008. Closure

The temporary closure, permanent closure and change in service of an
underground storage tank shall be accomplished in a safe and secure
manner which prevents releases of regulated substances. The director shall
prescribe by rule standards for these activities. Any rules adopted pursuant
to this section shall be consistent with the federal regulations in effect on the
date on which the rules are adopted. Until the rules adopted pursuant to this
section are in effect, a temporary closure, permanent closure or change in
service shall be accomplished in a manner consistent with 40 Code of
Federal Regulations parts 280.70 through 280.74.
  ARS 49-1009 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
  Tank performance standards (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))

§ 49-1009. [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment] Tank
performance standards

A. A person shall not install an underground storage tank unless the
underground storage tank meets all of the following requirements:

1. It is designed to prevent releases due to corrosion or structural failure for
the operational life of the tank.

2. It is cathodically protected against corrosion, constructed of noncorrosive
material, steel clad with a noncorrosive material or designed in a manner to
prevent the release of a regulated substance.

3. The material used in the construction or lining of the tank is compatible
with the substance to be stored.

B. Beginning January 1, 2009, a person shall not install an underground
storage tank unless the underground storage tank meets the secondary
containment and release detection requirements for hazardous substance
underground storage tank systems in 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 280.42 and the interstitial monitoring requirements in 40 Code of
Federal Regulations section 280.43, subsection G.

C. Beginning January 1, 2009, a person shall not install a new piping
component that is twenty-five per cent or more of the total linear footage of
all connected piping of the underground storage tank unless all connected
piping of the underground storage tank that conveys a regulated substance
under pressure is brought into compliance with the secondary containment
and release detection requirements for hazardous substance underground
storage tank systems in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 280.42 and
the interstitial monitoring requirements in 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 280.43, subsection G.

D. Beginning January 1, 2009, an owner or operator who installs or replaces
a motor fuel dispenser that connects to an underground storage tank shall
install under-dispenser containment. The under-dispenser containment
shall meet the release detection requirements of 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 280.42, subsection B, paragraph 1.

E. The owner and operator of an underground storage tank shall use an
underground storage tank, a new piping component, under-dispenser
containment and any secondary containment material that is made of or
lined with materials that are compatible with the regulated substance stored
in or dispensed from the underground storage tank.
  ARS 49-1009 [Effective Until ninety days after adjournment]
  Tank performance standards (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))

F. The director may adopt rules specifying design, construction, installation,
performance and compatibility standards for underground storage tanks.
The rules adopted pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with and
no more stringent than federal regulations in effect on the date on which the
rules are adopted.

G. The director may require an owner and operator of an underground
storage tank to perform or cause to be performed a tank test to determine
compliance with the standards established pursuant to this section.

This section is set out more than once. See also A.R.S. § 49-10092, effective
ninety days after adjournment.
  ARS 49-1009 [Effective ninety days after adjournment] Tank
performance standards (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1009. [Effective ninety days after adjournment] Tank
performance standards

A. A person shall not install an underground storage tank unless the
underground storage tank meets all of the following requirements:

1. It is designed to prevent releases due to corrosion or structural failure for
the operational life of the tank.

2. It is cathodically protected against corrosion, constructed of noncorrosive
material, steel clad with a noncorrosive material or designed in a manner to
prevent the release of a regulated substance.

3. The material used in the construction or lining of the tank is compatible
with the substance to be stored.

B. A person shall not install an underground storage tank unless the
underground storage tank meets the secondary containment performance
standards for new underground storage tank systems prescribed in 40 Code
of FEDERAL REGULATIONS section 280.20 as in EFFECT on January 1,
2020 and release detection requirements for interstitial monitoring in 40
Code of Federal Regulations section 280.43(g) as in effect on January 1,
2020.

C. A person shall not install a new piping component that is fifty percent or
more of the total linear footage of all connected piping of the underground
storage tank unless all connected piping of the underground storage tank
that conveys a regulated substance under pressure is brought into
compliance with the secondary containment performance standards for new
underground storage tank systems prescribed in 40 Code of FEDERAL
REGULATIONS section 280.20 as in EFFECT on January 1, 2020 and
release detection requirements for interstitial monitoring in 40 Code of
Federal Regulations section 280.43(g) as in effect on January 1, 2020.

D. An owner or operator who installs or replaces a dispenser system that
connects to an underground storage tank shall install under-dispenser
containment. The under-dispenser containment shall meet the performance
standards for new underground storage tank systems prescribed in 40 Code
of Federal REGULATIONS section 280.20(f) as in EFFECT on January 1,
2020.

E. The owner and operator of an underground storage tank shall use an
underground storage tank, a new piping component, under-dispenser
containment and any secondary containment material that is made of or
  ARS 49-1009 [Effective ninety days after adjournment] Tank
performance standards (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


lined with materials that are compatible with the regulated substance stored
in or dispensed from the underground storage tank.

F. The director may adopt rules specifying design, construction, installation,
performance and compatibility standards for underground storage tanks.
The rules adopted pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with and
not more stringent than federal regulations in effect on the date on which
the rules are adopted.

G. The director may require an owner and operator of an underground
storage tank to perform or cause to be performed a tank test to determine
compliance with the standards established pursuant to this section.

(Amended by L. 2021, ch. 37,s. 1, eff. ninety days after adjournment.)

This section is set out more than once. See also A.R.S. § 49-10091, effective
until ninety days after adjournment.
    ARS 49-1010 Preemption of local regulation; delegation of
    administrative authority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))

§ 49-1010. Preemption of local regulation; delegation of
administrative authority

A. The provisions of this chapter and the rules which implement this
chapter, as they relate to the identification, prevention and remediation of
releases of regulated substances from underground storage tanks are of
statewide concern and shall not be subject to further local regulation.

B. The director, by intergovernmental agreement or otherwise, may delegate
to other departments or agencies and to a city, town or county the authority
to administer the provisions of and enforce all or any part of this chapter or
the rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
    ARS 49-1011 Right to inspect records, tanks and equipment
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1011. Right to inspect records, tanks and equipment

A. For the purposes of developing rules, conducting studies or enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, an owner or operator of an underground storage
tank shall, on request of the director:

1. Furnish to the department information relating to the tank and its
associated equipment and contents.

2. Permit the director to conduct monitoring and testing of tanks or
surrounding soils, air, surface water or groundwater.

3. Permit the director to inspect and copy all records relating to tanks.

4. Permit the director to inspect and obtain samples of regulated substances
contained in tanks.

B. The director shall conduct all inspections permitted pursuant to
subsection A at a reasonable time and complete these inspections with
reasonable promptness.
ARS 49-1012 Confidentiality of records (Arizona Revised Statutes
                       (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1012. Confidentiality of records

A. Records or other information furnished to or obtained by the director
concerning regulated substances are available to the public, except that any
records and information which relate to the trade secrets, processes,
operations, style of work or apparatus or confidential statistical data,
amount or source of any income, profits, losses or expenditures of any
person are only for the confidential use of the department in the
administration of this chapter unless the owner or operator expressly agrees
to their publication or availability to the public. This section does not
prohibit the appropriate governmental agency from publishing quantitative
and qualitative statistics pertaining to the storage of regulated substances.
Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section, information
regarding the nature and quality of releases from underground storage tanks
otherwise reportable pursuant to this chapter shall be available to the public.

B. This section does not prohibit the department from providing confidential
information to a duly authorized congressional committee or the United
States environmental protection agency if the information is treated as
prescribed by 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 2.
    ARS 49-1013 Enforcement and penalties (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1013. Enforcement and penalties

A. If the director determines that a person is in violation of this chapter or
the rules adopted pursuant to this chapter the director may issue an order
requiring compliance within a reasonable time. A compliance order becomes
final thirty days after the order is served unless within thirty days of service
the person named on the order requests a hearing. A hearing shall be
conducted pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10. A compliance order that
is the subject of a hearing as prescribed by this section becomes final and
subject to appeal on the decision of the director to uphold the compliance
order. Except as provided in section 41-1092.08, subsection H, the director's
final decision may be appealed by any party to the superior court pursuant
to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. A person becomes the subject of an
enforcement proceeding pursuant to this chapter when a compliance order
against that person becomes final.

B. If the director issues a stop use order pursuant to section 49-1023, the
owner or operator may request a hearing within thirty days after the
issuance of the stop use order. A hearing shall be conducted pursuant to title
41, chapter 6, article 10. Except as provided in section 41-1092.08,
subsection H, the director's final decision may be appealed by the owner or
operator to the superior court pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.

C. If a person fails to comply with a final order under this section within the
time specified in the order, the person is subject to a civil penalty of not to
exceed twenty-five thousand dollars for each day of continued
noncompliance.

D. An owner who fails to notify or submits false information pursuant to
section 49-1002 is subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed ten thousand
dollars for each underground storage tank for which notification is not given
or false information is submitted.

E. An owner or operator of an underground storage tank who fails to comply
with any of the requirements or standards of this chapter or who fails to
comply with a stop use order is subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed ten
thousand dollars for each underground storage tank for each day of
violation.

F. A product deliverer as defined in section 49-1023 who fails to comply with
the requirements of section 49-1023, subsection A is subject to a civil
penalty of not to exceed ten thousand dollars for each underground storage
tank for each violation.
    ARS 49-1013 Enforcement and penalties (Arizona Revised
                   Statutes (2021 Edition))


G. The penalties provided for in this section shall not be cumulated with any
penalties sought and obtained by the department or the United States
pursuant to title VI of the hazardous and solid waste amendments of 1984 (
P.L. 98-616; 98 Stat. 3221).

H. The director may file an action in the superior court to enforce this
chapter and to collect penalties for violations of this chapter. The director
may seek all appropriate relief including temporary and permanent
injunctions.

I. All monies collected under the penalty provisions of this section shall be
deposited in the state general fund.
ARS 49-1014 Rules; policies; guidelines (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1014. Rules; policies; guidelines

A. The director shall adopt rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6 necessary to
provide procedures for the administration of this chapter and to cause the
program for the regulation of underground storage tanks established by this
chapter to be approved by the administrator of the environmental protection
agency pursuant to 42 United States Code section 6991c.

B. The director may establish policies and guidelines for the administration
of this chapter, subject to the following:

1. If a substantive policy statement as defined in section 41-1001 or a
guideline is issued by the director, the director shall provide written notice
to persons regulated by this chapter before the effective date of a policy or
guideline that affects the substantive rights of owners and operators or other
parties regulated under the underground storage tank program. The written
notice shall set forth the effective date of the policy or guideline. The policy
or guideline shall not be retroactive or applied retroactively except as
specifically authorized by law or by the agreement of the department and the
person who is regulated by this chapter.

2. The department shall not base a determination of compliance with the
requirements of this chapter in whole or in part on a policy or guideline that
is not specifically authorized by statute or rule.
   ARS 49-1015 Underground storage tank revolving fund; use;
       purpose (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1015. Underground storage tank revolving fund; use;
purpose

A. The underground storage tank revolving fund is established and shall be
administered by the director. Monies in the fund are exempt from lapsing
under section 35-190.

B. The fund consists of monies appropriated by the legislature, underground
storage tank tax revenues collected and distributed pursuant to section 49-
1036, monies obtained from the fees imposed by this chapter and the rules
adopted under this chapter and monies reimbursed to the fund by the
department. On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and
divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned
from investment shall be credited to the fund.

C. Monies from the fund may be used for the following:

1. To provide state matching monies and to meet other obligations as
prescribed by section 9003(h)(7)(B) of the solid waste disposal act (42
United States Code section 6991 b (h )(7)(b)).

2. For all the reasonable and necessary costs incurred in taking corrective
actions pursuant to section 49-1017 and noncorrective actions pursuant to
section 49-1017.02.

3. For the costs of recovering the expenses of corrective actions pursuant to
section 49-1017 and noncorrective actions pursuant to section 49-1017.02.

4. To provide reimbursement for eligible costs.

5. For the costs incurred in administering the regulatory requirements of
this chapter.

6. To reimburse the department for the reasonable and necessary costs
incurred by the department in administering the corrective action
requirements of this chapter.

7. To reimburse the department for the reasonable and necessary costs
incurred by the department in administering underground storage tank
grant programs.

8. To reimburse the department for the reasonable and necessary costs
incurred by the department in administering the fund. The department may
not pay from the fund any costs, payments or other expenses that result
from a contract awarded pursuant to this section unless the contract
   ARS 49-1015 Underground storage tank revolving fund; use;
       purpose (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


includes performance standards and contractual penalties for
nonperformance or inadequate performance under the contract.

D. The director shall reimburse the fund for any corrective action costs or
noncorrective action costs that are paid out of the fund and that are
subsequently recovered by the department.

E. Monies in the fund may not be used to implement the water quality
assurance revolving fund program pursuant to chapter 2, article 5 of this
title.

(Amended by L. 2016, ch. 120,s. 2, eff. 8/5/2016. Added by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 5, eff. 7/2/2015.)
   ARS 49-1015.01 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1015.01. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 4, eff. 7/2/2015. Amended by L. 2013, ch.
244,s. 1, eff. 9/13/2013.)
 ARS 49-1016 Responsibilities of owners and operators (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1016. Responsibilities of owners and operators

A. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the responsibilities of this chapter
are imposed on the owner and the operator of an underground storage tank.
If the owner and operator of an underground storage tank are separate
persons, only one person is required to discharge any specific responsibility.
Both persons are liable in the event of noncompliance.

B. The liabilities and responsibilities for releases of regulated substances
imposed pursuant to this chapter shall apply even if the conduct that
resulted in the release or the release itself occurred before August 13, 1986.

C. If a person comes into the possession or control of property where an
underground storage tank is located and the person is not the owner as
defined in section 49-1001.01, the person shall:

1. Notify the department in writing specifying the tank's location, size and
use, if known, if the owner has failed to do so.

2. Notify the department of each release or suspected release from the tank
as soon as practicable if the owner or operator has failed to do so.

3. If the person voluntarily undertakes to remove or otherwise close the
tank, do so in a safe and secure manner which prevents releases of regulated
substances and in accordance with standards prescribed by the director
pursuant to section 49-1008, except for the requirement to perform
corrective action.

4. If the person voluntarily undertakes corrective action, take corrective
action in a manner consistent with federal regulations and rules adopted by
the director pursuant to section 49-1005.

D. A person acting under subsection C of this section shall not incur the
liability of an owner.

E. No agreement or conveyance shall be effective to transfer the obligations
imposed by this chapter from the owner or operator of any underground
storage tank, or from any person who may be liable for a release or threat of
release under this chapter, to any other person. Nothing in this section shall
bar any agreement to insure, hold harmless, or indemnify a party to such
agreement for any liability under this chapter nor shall it bar a cause of
action that an owner or operator or any other person has or would have
against any person.

F. In any action brought by the department under section 49-1013, the state
bears the burden of establishing that an owner or operator has violated the
 ARS 49-1016 Responsibilities of owners and operators (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


requirements of this chapter. An owner or operator is responsible for only
the owner's or operator's contribution to any contamination that creates
liability under this chapter. No party bears the burden of proving any
person's contribution to the contamination in any informal or formal appeal
pursuant to section 49-1017, subsection D, section 49-1019, subsection D or
section 49-1091.

G. If there is prima facie evidence that other identified or unidentified
persons not at the owner's or operator's facility have contributed to the
contamination, the owner or operator shall be responsible to take corrective
action only to the extent, by area, of the owner's or operator's release. The
owner or operator shall not be required to identify or to prove the
contribution of any contributing persons in order to limit the owner's or
operator's own liability, but the owner or operator shall provide to the
department any information the owner or operator knows regarding the
identity or contribution of any other contributing persons. If the owner or
operator does not disclose the information prior to the owner's or operator's
formal appeal of a decision by the department, upon the department's
request, the administrative hearing shall be continued for no more than
thirty days from the scheduled hearing date. If who contributed to the
contamination cannot be determined by a preponderance of evidence, or if
an allocation for some or all of the contamination cannot be established by a
preponderance of evidence, the liability that is not established to be the
owner's or operator's by a preponderance of the evidence shall not be
allocated to the owner or operator.

H. The department may issue a written interim decision or determination
compelling owners and operators to allocate liability in accordance with
section 49-1019, subsection D if either of the following conditions are met:

1. The owners and operators agree that no other owners or operators are
liable for the contamination.

2. The contamination is from a single underground storage tank facility.
   ARS 49-1017 Powers of director; corrective actions (Arizona
                Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1017. Powers of director; corrective actions

A. The director may take corrective action with respect to a release of a
regulated substance that is petroleum into the environment from an
underground storage tank if the director determines that action is necessary
to protect human health, safety or the environment and any of the following
conditions exist:

1. The department cannot locate, within ninety days or a shorter period
necessary to protect human health or the environment, a person who is all of
the following:

(a) An owner or operator of the tank concerned.

(b) Subject to the corrective action requirements of section 49-1005.

(c) Financially or technically capable of properly carrying out the corrective
action required by section 49-1005. If the owner or operator and the
department jointly determine that the owner or operator is not financially or
technically able to carry out the corrective action , the department and the
owner may enter into a contract under which the department acts as
manager of the corrective action on behalf of the owner or operator. The
existence of a management contract with the department does not relieve
the owner of any liability for costs that are not payable by the department
under this chapter .

2. Corrective action costs at a facility exceed the amount of coverage
required by section 49-1006 and expenditures from the underground
storage tank revolving fund are necessary to ensure effective corrective
action.

B. In determining whether to take a corrective action pursuant to subsection
A of this section, the director shall consider and make written findings
regarding all of the following factors:

1. The physical and chemical characteristics of the type of petroleum
released, including its toxicity, persistence and potential for migration.

2. The hydrogeologic characteristics of the site where the underground
storage tank is located and the surrounding area.

3. The proximity, quality and current and future uses of nearby surface
water and groundwater.

4. The potential effects of residual contamination on nearby surface water
and groundwater.
   ARS 49-1017 Powers of director; corrective actions (Arizona
                Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


5. The degree of exposure.

6. The need for financial assistance.

C. If direct costs are incurred by the director for undertaking corrective
action with respect to a release of a regulated substance that is petroleum,
the owner and operator are liable to this state for these direct costs. Liability
imposed pursuant to this subsection is strict. For the purposes of this
subsection, "direct costs" means the cost of the corrective actions,
investigations, enforcement and litigation except for those amounts that are
not allocated to the owner or operator pursuant to subsection d of this
section .

D. If there is more than one responsible person, liability under this section
shall be equitably allocated on a case-by-case basis according to section 49-
1016, subsection F, and using the following factors as those factors are
appropriate under the circumstances:

1. The duration and percentage of ownership or operation of the
underground storage tank during a release of regulated substances from the
tank.

2. The amount and nature of the regulated substances released.

3. The degree of care exercised by each person with respect to the regulated
substances released.

4. The ability to distinguish between the respective releases of more than
one responsible person.

5. Other factors that are appropriate under the circumstances.

E. The allocation of liability under this section shall be promptly determined
by one or more mediators who shall be selected by the responsible persons
within sixty days after the responsible persons are identified by the director.
The director may select a mediator and convene a mediation on the failure of
the responsible persons to select one or more mediators. The mediator shall
not have a conflict of interest with the responsible persons. A mediation
convened by the director shall be held within sixty days after the mediator
being selected. The director shall provide notice to the responsible persons
of the time and place for the mediation and the name of the mediator or
mediators. This notice shall be provided at least forty-five days prior to the
date scheduled for mediation. Costs of mediation shall be eligible for
payment and shall be allocated to participants in the mediation in the same
proportion as the costs of corrective action. Nothing in this section shall
excuse the obligations of an owner or operator to take timely and adequate
   ARS 49-1017 Powers of director; corrective actions (Arizona
                Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


action in response to a release of regulated substances as required in this
chapter. Nothing in this section shall diminish the right of any person to
bring an action against any other person as provided in section 49-1019 for
contribution or reimbursement for the reasonable costs of corrective action
that person has been allocated pursuant to this section.

F. The director may take a corrective action with respect to a release of a
regulated substance that is not petroleum only as a remedial action subject
to chapter 2, article 5 of this title, and the rules adopted pursuant to that
article. If the director takes a corrective action for the release of a regulated
substance that is not petroleum, all of the rights, duties and responsibilities
of a person associated with the release shall be determined pursuant to that
article.

G. An owner, operator or other person that meets the requirements of
section 49-1016, subsection C may request that the department conduct
corrective action under this section. Subject to the availability of monies
allocated and the priority assigned to the site pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the department may conduct the corrective action.

H. A request for corrective action pursuant to subsection G of this section
shall be on a form provided by the department and shall contain sufficient
information related to the site and the factors prescribed in subsection B of
this section to allow the director to make a determination of priority for that
request.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 6, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1017.01 Settlement authority; participation; financial
information; process; payment; notice (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))

§ 49-1017.01. Settlement authority; participation; financial
information; process; payment; notice

A. The director shall consider any offer by an owner or operator who is
potentially liable for direct costs incurred by the director pursuant to section
49-1017, subsection C, without regard to the extent of that owner's or
operator's liability, if the owner or operator is unable to pay for the direct
costs. An owner or operator whose liability for direct costs arose from a
criminal act is not eligible to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to
this section. An owner's or operator's decision to enter into a settlement
agreement pursuant to this section is not an admission in a judicial
proceeding as to the fact or extent of that owner's or operator's liability with
respect to releases or threatened releases that are covered by the settlement.
An owner or operator who is a party to a settlement pursuant to this section
is not required to participate in allocation proceedings pursuant to section
49-1017, subsections D and E. Any settlement approved by the department
does not release the owner or operator from any responsibility or duty
imposed pursuant to this chapter other than liability for direct costs
incurred pursuant to section 49-1017, subsection C.

B. Any settlement approved by the department does not increase the liability
of any other owner or operator pursuant to this chapter and does not create
any liability for the department or this state.

C. The director shall consider all of the following factors in considering an
owner's or operator's ability to pay for the direct costs:

1. The financial resources of the owner or operator, including available
financial assurance mechanisms other than the underground storage tank
revolving fund .

2. The amount of coverage available to the owner or operator from the
underground storage tank revolving fund for the direct costs. As a condition
of settlement, the owner or operator shall apply to the underground storage
tank revolving fund and any applicable grant program for coverage of the
direct costs before requesting settlement pursuant to this section.

3. The owner's or operator's ability to continue in business after payment of
the owner's or operator's liability for direct costs as defined in section 49-
1017, subsection C.

4. Whether payment of the owner's or operator's liability for direct costs as
defined in section 49-1017, subsection C would require the owner or
operator to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy law or render the
owner or operator insolvent.
  ARS 49-1017.01 Settlement authority; participation; financial
information; process; payment; notice (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))

5. The financial resources of all concerns in which the owner or operator
maintains ownership, control or management.

D. An owner or operator seeking settlement pursuant to subsection A of this
section shall submit a letter requesting a financial hardship settlement and
shall include the owner's or operator's tax returns and all schedules,
financial statements, balance statements and other information concerning
the owner's or operator's gross income and net worth for the five years
immediately preceding the date of the application. Within ninety days after
the receipt of the application, the director may require additional
information to verify the owner's or operator's eligibility for settlement
pursuant to subsection A of this section. The owner or operator may provide
any additional information the owner or operator believes to be relevant to
the application. The director shall keep confidential any financial
information submitted by the owner or operator pursuant to this subsection.
If the director or the attorney general disputes a claim of confidentiality, the
director or the attorney general shall provide written notice that the claim is
disputed to the owner or operator claiming the confidentiality. The
information shall be made available to the public if the owner or operator
claiming confidentiality does not file an action for declaratory relief in
superior court within thirty days after receiving the notice.

E. The owner or operator shall cooperate with the director in providing
reasonable access and information for the director to carry out the
requirements of this section as a condition of the settlement.

F. If the director verifies that the owner or operator is unable to pay the
direct costs incurred by the director pursuant to section 49-1017, subsection
C, the director shall enter into a settlement within ninety days after receipt
of the application and any other information required pursuant to this
section. The director shall allow the settlement amount to be paid over a
period of time that does not exceed ten years. Settlement payments over a
period of time are subject to the payment of interest at the rate of six percent
a year, except that payments are not subject to interest if the entire
settlement amount is paid within five years. The owner or operator may file
a petition with the director to modify the payment schedule on a showing of
good cause that the payment schedule cannot be met.

G. The director may require that notice of the terms of the settlement
agreement be provided to the public to allow for comment for a period of
thirty days before the department enters into a settlement agreement. Any
interested person may comment on the settlement agreement in writing to
the director. The director may withdraw from a settlement agreement after
considering the comments.
  ARS 49-1017.01 Settlement authority; participation; financial
information; process; payment; notice (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))

H. If the director determines that the owner or operator does not qualify for
a settlement pursuant to this section, the director shall notify the owner or
operator in writing within ninety days after the receipt of all information
required pursuant to this section stating the reasons for ineligibility. The
application for settlement is deemed denied if the director does not notify
the owner or operator within ninety days after the director's receipt of all
applicable information. A denial of a settlement application under this
subsection constitutes an appealable agency action as defined in section 41-
1092. In any administrative appeal hearing conducted pursuant to title 41,
chapter 6, article 10, the documents submitted by the owner or operator
pursuant to this section are not confidential. Any appeal is limited to the
owner's or operator's eligibility for a financial hardship settlement pursuant
to this section and the owner's or operator's ability to pay the direct costs
incurred by the director pursuant to section 49-1017, subsection C.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 7, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1017.02 Powers of the director; noncorrective actions
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1017.02. Powers of the director; noncorrective actions

A. Subject to the availability of monies in the underground storage tank
revolving fund that are allocated by the director, an owner, an operator or
another person that meets the requirements of section 49-1016, subsection C
may request that the department conduct one or more of the following
noncorrective actions at a site:

1. Obtaining a baseline assessment of a tank or site as prescribed in section
49-1052.

2. Confirmation of a suspected release at a tank or site.

3. Permanent closure of an underground storage tank as prescribed by
section 49-1008.

B. In determining the priority for requests under subsection A of this
section, the director may consider the following factors:

1. The age, construction and operational history of the underground storage
tank at the site.

2. The hydrogeologic characteristics of the site where the underground
storage tank is located and the surrounding area.

3. The proximity, quality and current and future uses of nearby surface
water and groundwater.

4. The potential effects of residual contamination to nearby surface water
and groundwater.

5. The degree of exposure, including the physical and chemical
characteristics of the type of petroleum sold or suspected to have been
released, including its toxicity, persistence and potential for migration.

6. The financial ability of the person to conduct the action with the person's
own monies.

C. A request for a noncorrective action under this section shall be on a form
provided by the department and shall contain sufficient information related
to the site and the factors prescribed in subsection b of this section to allow
the director to make a determination of priority for that request.

(Added by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 8, eff. 7/2/2015.)
 ARS 49-1018 Corrective action; enforcement; priority (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1018. Corrective action; enforcement; priority

The director shall give priority in undertaking state-led corrective actions
pursuant to section 49-1017 to releases of regulated substances from
underground storage tanks that pose the greatest threat to human health
and the environment and shall consider the degree to which financial
assistance from the department is necessary to ensure that corrective actions
will be conducted .

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 9, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1019 Release of regulated substance; causes of action;
  limitation; liability (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1019. Release of regulated substance; causes of action;
limitation; liability

A. Any one of the following persons may bring an action in superior court
against a person who caused or contributed to the release of a regulated
substance from an underground storage tank to require that person to
reimburse one of the following persons for the reasonable costs of corrective
actions taken in response to the release:

1. An owner or operator of an underground storage tank or any other person
who takes a corrective action pursuant to section 49-1005.

2. An owner or operator of an underground storage tank or any other person
from whom costs are recovered by this state pursuant to this chapter .

B. The person seeking reimbursement has the burden of demonstrating that
the corrective action costs incurred were reasonable.

C. This article does not affect or modify the obligations or liability of a
person, by reason of subrogation or otherwise, under any other provision of
common law, federal law or the laws of this state, for damages, injury or loss
resulting from a release of a regulated substance or for the costs of a
corrective action, except that a person who receives compensation for the
costs of a corrective action pursuant to this article is precluded from
recovering compensation for the same corrective action costs pursuant to
any other federal law or the laws of this state. A person who receives
compensation for corrective action costs pursuant to federal law or the laws
of this state is precluded from receiving compensation for the same
corrective action costs as provided in this article.

D. Liability under this section shall be equitably allocated on a case-by-case
basis in accordance with section 49-1017, subsection D. Any party
authorized to bring an action pursuant to subsection A of this section and
any party against whom an action is brought may have liability allocated
through mediation in accordance with section 49-1017, subsection D or
through the informal appeal process in accordance with section 49-1091.

E. The department may take corrective action for a release and recover
direct costs pursuant to section 49-1017 in proportion to the allocation made
pursuant to subsection D of this section if an owner or an operator does not
perform all necessary corrective actions and there is no other person to
perform corrective actions pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C .

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 10, eff. 7/2/2015.)
   ARS 49-1020 Fees (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))



§ 49-1020. Fees

Each owner and operator of an underground storage tank that is subject to
regulation under this chapter shall pay annually to the department a fee of
one hundred dollars for each tank. An owner or operator who sold or
relinquished legal, equitable or possessory interest in the property on or
before January 1, 1990 shall not be responsible to pay the fee prescribed by
this section. The director, with the approval of the attorney general, may
abate fee balances if the administration costs exceed the amount of the fees
due. The fees collected under this section shall be deposited, pursuant to
sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the underground storage tank revolving fund
established by section 49-1015. The director shall adopt rules to provide for
the orderly imposition and collection of the fees imposed by this section.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 11, eff. 7/2/2015.)
    ARS 49-1021 Applicability (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                            Edition))


§ 49-1021. Applicability

Until rules adopted pursuant to this chapter are in effect, this chapter shall
apply only to the extent described by 40 Code of Federal Regulations section
280.10 and the energy policy act. Rules adopted pursuant to this chapter
shall apply only to underground storage tanks not excluded or deferred by
the federal regulations in effect on the date on which the rules are adopted.
       ARS 49-1022 Regulated substance migration off site;
     responsibility; corrective action; notice; appeal; coverage
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

§ 49-1022. Regulated substance migration off site; responsibility;
corrective action; notice; appeal; coverage

A. The director may undertake corrective action in response to a release
from an underground storage tank that migrates on or under a person's
property as the result of an occurrence at another property or that the
department determines is likely to migrate on or under a person's property,
if all of the following occur:

1. The person has authority to allow access to the property so that corrective
action may be taken on the person's property.

2. The owner or operator of the underground storage tank that is the source
of the release makes a written request that the department attempt to obtain
access to the property. As part of the written request, the owner or operator
shall demonstrate to the department the following before the department
attempts to obtain access to the property:

(a) The owner or operator has sent and the person has received at least two
written requests to allow the owner or operator to have access to the
property at reasonable times and under reasonable conditions.

(b) The owner or operator has made an offer of reasonable compensation to
the person.

(c) Contamination is likely to spread or increase in severity if access to the
property is not obtained.

3. The person has received a written request from the department to have
access to the property, at reasonable times and under reasonable conditions
in a manner that does not constitute a taking as provided by law, to take
corrective action with respect to only the release that has migrated on that
person's property.

4. The person has refused to allow the owner or operator or the department
to have access to the property or does not respond to the department within
sixty days after receiving the request for access.

B. The department shall issue a notice describing the proposed corrective
action to the owner or operator and the person on whose property the
department will undertake corrective action if it elects to undertake
corrective action pursuant to subsection A of this section. The owner or
operator or the person on whose property the department undertakes
corrective action may appeal pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10, within
thirty days after the notice or within thirty days after the performance of the
corrective action. If, after an appeal, it is determined that the department
       ARS 49-1022 Regulated substance migration off site;
     responsibility; corrective action; notice; appeal; coverage
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

failed to return the property to substantially the same condition the property
was in before being accessed, the person on whose property the department
undertakes the corrective action may be eligible for payment from the
underground storage tank revolving fund only to the extent the department
failed to return the property to substantially the same condition the property
was in before being accessed.

C. The owner or operator shall reimburse the department for any costs paid
from the underground storage tank revolving fund pursuant to this section.

D. The department shall promptly provide to a person whose property is
accessed under this section a copy of the results of any analysis of the soil or
groundwater relating to the accessed property arising from the department's
access or corrective action undertaken at the property. The department shall
not sue the person for any secondary contamination created by the access or
corrective action.

E. If a release of a regulated substance has migrated on or under a person's
property, the department shall relieve the owner or operator of the
underground storage tank from responsibility from performing corrective
action at the property where the release has migrated or where the
department has determined it is likely to have migrated, if the owner or
operator is unable to gain access to the property after complying with
subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section. Nothing
in this section relieves the owner or operator from liability for completing
the requirements of section 49-1005 relating to the owner's or operator's
property or any other property to which the contamination may have
migrated. The department may require that the owner or operator
investigate any other properties potentially impacted by the release in order
to complete the requirements of section 49-1005.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 12, eff. 7/2/2015.)
    ARS 49-1023 Delivery prohibition; stop use tag; definitions
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1023. Delivery prohibition; stop use tag; definitions

A. A product deliverer shall not deliver, deposit or place a regulated
substance into an underground storage tank that has a stop use tag from the
director affixed to a fill pipe of the underground storage tank pursuant to
subsection B of this section.

B. The director may issue a stop use order to the owner and operator of the
underground storage tank and affix a stop use tag that is easily visible to the
product deliverer on all fill pipes of the underground storage tank to stop
operation of the underground storage tank if either of the following exists :

1. The director has determined that the underground storage tank is in
violation of section 49-1003 or 49-1009 or the rules adopted pursuant to
those sections, as applicable , and the continued operation of the
underground storage tank may result in a continued release or new release
from the underground storage tank.

2. The director has determined that the underground storage tank is in
violation of section 49-1006, 49-1020 or 49-1031 or the rules adopted
pursuant to those sections , after providing the owner and operator with
thirty days' notice and an opportunity to demonstrate compliance.

C. A stop use order becomes effective immediately on issuance and suspends
use of the underground storage tank.

D. The owner and operator of an underground storage tank that has received
a stop use tag pursuant to subsection B of this section shall ensure that no
person removes or tampers with the stop use tag until the requirements for
return of the underground storage tank to operation pursuant to subsection
E of this section are met, and shall immediately empty the underground
storage tank and comply with the remaining temporary closure
requirements adopted under section 49-1008.

E. An owner or operator shall not bring an underground storage tank that
has received a stop use tag pursuant to subsection B of this section back into
operation until the owner or operator has demonstrated to the director that
the underground storage tank meets the requirements of sections 49-1003,
49-1006 and 49-1009 and the rules adopted pursuant to those sections, as
applicable, and the owner or operator has received written confirmation
from the director that the requirements of sections 49-1003, 49-1006, 49-
1009 , 49-1020 and 49-1031 and the rules adopted pursuant to those
sections, as applicable, have been met. The director shall provide written
confirmation as soon as practicable, but not later than five business days, to
the owner or operator that the requirements of sections 49-1003, 49-1006,
    ARS 49-1023 Delivery prohibition; stop use tag; definitions
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


49-1009 , 49-1020 and 49-1031 and the rules adopted pursuant to those
sections have been met.

F. On issuance of a stop use order, the director shall notify product
deliverers by posting on the department's website the name and location of a
facility with an underground storage tank that has a stop use tag. The notice
shall also specify which underground storage tank at the facility has a stop
use tag.

G. The director shall remove the stop use notice from the department's
website within five business days after determining that the requirements of
subsection E of this section have been met.

H. The director may adopt rules to implement this section.

I. For the purposes of this section:

1. "Product deliverer" means a person, including an owner, operator or oil
company, or a distributor as defined in section 28-5601, a supplier as
defined in section 28-5601, a petroleum transportation company and any
other entity that delivers, deposits or places a regulated substance into an
underground storage tank.

2. "Stop use tag" means a tag, device or mechanism that is prescribed by the
director, that is designed to be affixed to a fill pipe of an underground
storage tank and that clearly states and conveys that it is unlawful to deliver,
deposit or place a regulated substance into the underground storage tank to
which it is affixed.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 13, eff. 7/2/2015. Amended by L. 2014, ch.
14,s. 3, eff. 7/24/2014.)
 ARS 49-1024 Report; underground storage tank revolving fund
      program (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1024. Report; underground storage tank revolving fund
program

The department shall compile a report on the underground storage tank
revolving fund program on or before December 31, 2017, and on or before
December 31 every three years thereafter. The department shall submit the
report to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the
house of representatives and provide a copy of each report to the secretary of
state. The department shall post each report on an accessible, public
webpage on the department's website. The report shall contain the
department's findings and shall include the following information:

1. Underground storage tank revolving fund financial information, including
revenues, expenditures and current account balances.

2. The amount of any remaining unpaid time-barred claims.

3. A description of the work completed for each program grant component.

4. The amount of reimbursements made annually from the fund.

5. A listing of new releases reported and sites closed, a listing of liabilities
owed to small owners and other owners and projected liabilities for the fund
through the termination of the program.

6. A description of any state-led corrective actions, including the number of
new sites, the number of new releases reported, the number of sites closed,
the average cost of corrective action and projected liabilities for state-led
corrective actions through the termination of the program.

7. The total number of open releases that are cleaned to closure, the
remaining number of open releases, the number of application or
reimbursement denials by the department and the number of preapproval
appeals.

(Added by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 14, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1031 [Repealed Effective12/31/2023] Imposition of tax
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1031. [Repealed Effective12/31/2023] Imposition of tax

A. From and after July 1, 1990, there is imposed and the director shall
collect an excise tax on the operation of underground storage tanks
regulated under this chapter measured by the quantity of regulated
substances placed in a tank in any calendar year. The tax is levied at the rate
of one cent per gallon of regulated substance.

B. For proper administration of this article, and to prevent the evasion of the
tax imposed by this article, it shall be presumed until the contrary is
established by competent proof under rules and procedures adopted by the
director that all regulated substances that are motor vehicle fuel as defined
in section 28-101, aviation fuel as defined in section 28-101 and diesel as
defined in section 28-6001, subsection B and that are refined,
manufactured, produced, compounded or blended in this state, or imported
into this state, will be placed in an underground storage tank from which the
fuel is dispensed to users who consume the fuel and do not further distribute
it. Under this presumption, the owner and operator of an underground
storage tank from which motor vehicle fuel, aviation fuel or diesel is
dispensed and from which no further bulk distribution will be made, shall be
considered to have paid the tax collected under title 28, chapter 16, article 6.

C. The tax imposed by this article does not apply to underground storage
tanks operated by the United States or this state or agencies of the United
States or this state or to any of the following substances placed in
underground storage tanks:

1. Naphtha-type jet fuel or kerosene-type jet fuel.

2. Regulated substances as defined in section 49-1001, paragraph 16,
subdivision (b), unless such regulated substances were placed in an
underground storage tank prior to July 1, 1997, and the owner or operator of
the underground storage tank has paid prior to July 1, 1997 all taxes
imposed by this article applicable to such regulated substances. If the owner
or operator has paid those taxes, the owner or operator may elect to
continue to pay the tax imposed by this article regarding such regulated
substances.

D. The owner and operator of an underground storage tank regulated under
this chapter are jointly and severally liable for the tax, but the owner and
operator may agree between themselves and file a notarized affidavit with
the director designating either the owner or operator as primarily
responsible for the tax under this article.
  ARS 49-1031 [Repealed Effective12/31/2023] Imposition of tax
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


E. Any person who purchases motor vehicle fuel as defined in section 28-
101, aviation fuel as defined in section 28-101, or diesel as defined in section
28-6001, subsection B for which the tax imposed by this section has been
paid and which fuel has been placed in a tank which is not subject to the
underground storage tank tax imposed by this section and from which no
further bulk distribution of the fuel will be made, may claim a refund of the
tax levied. Refunds shall be submitted on forms prescribed by the director
and shall be supported by substantiation for the amount of the tax paid.

F. Any person eligible to claim a refund of the tax imposed by this section,
including an assignee of a refund claim, may assign such claim to the person
from whom the fuel was purchased, and the assignee of the claim may claim
the refund allowed under subsection E of this section provided that the
assignor of the claim certifies in writing to the assignee, on forms prescribed
by the director, that the assignor relinquishes all interest in the refund and
shall not also claim a refund from the director.

G. If a refund claim is assigned to a person who is required to make
payments under title 28, chapter 16, article 6, the refund shall be taken into
account in the manner provided in section 28-6005.

H. The director shall adopt temporary and permanent rules for
administering the tax imposed by this article and specifying the forms of the
return and of the certification provided for in sections 28-6003 and 28-
6004. The temporary and permanent rules shall prescribe the forms for and
manner in which refunds may be claimed and refund claims assigned
pursuant to subsection F of this section, shall specify the circumstances in
which fuel may be excluded from the quantity of fuel used to measure the
tax pursuant to title 28, chapter 16, article 6, and shall prescribe the forms
for and manner which the certification provided in title 28, chapter 16,
article 6 shall be made.

I. Title 41, chapter 6 shall not apply to the temporary rules adopted pursuant
to this section. The temporary rules shall be filed with the secretary of state
and shall be effective for a period of one hundred eighty days after the date
of filing with the secretary of state. The temporary rules may be renewed
twice in the same manner as they were adopted, may be amended at the
time or times they are renewed, and shall be effective for a period of one
hundred eighty days after the date the renewed temporary rules are filed
with the secretary of state.

J. The permanent rules adopted pursuant to this section shall be adopted as
provided in title 41, chapter 6.
  ARS 49-1031 [Repealed Effective12/31/2023] Imposition of tax
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 15, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 22, eff. 12/31/2023.)
   ARS 49-1032 [Conditionally repealed - see note] Return and
    payment of tax; due date (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))

§ 49-1032. [Conditionally repealed - see note] Return and
payment of tax; due date

A. The tax levied under this article is due and payable annually on or before
March 31 for the preceding calendar year and is delinquent if not
postmarked on or before that date or if not received by the department on or
before March 31 for taxpayers electing to file in person.

B. At the time the tax is paid the taxpayer shall prepare and file with the tax
a return, on a form prescribed by the director, showing the amount of tax for
which he is liable for the period covered by the return. The return shall
contain either a sworn statement or a certification, under penalty of perjury,
that the information contained in the return is true, complete and correct
according to the best belief and knowledge of the owner or operator filing
the report.

(Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million
dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-1015.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after payment and
extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and transfer of
monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty
million dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-
1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from monies
transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance fund does
not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section, the
director of environmental quality shall deposit into the regulated substance
fund monies collected by the department pursuant to section 49-1031,
Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues
collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition
to monies encumbered and deposited in the monitored natural attenuation
account, is received by the regulated substance fund. )
   ARS 49-1033 [Conditionally repealed - see note] Extensions;
     abatement (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1033. [Conditionally repealed - see note] Extensions;
abatement

A. The director, for good cause, may extend the time for making any return
required by this article and may grant such reasonable additional time
within which to make the return as he deems proper if at least ninety per
cent of the tax liability is paid when the extension is requested.

B. The director, with the approval of the attorney general, may abate small
tax balances if the administration costs exceed the amount of tax due.

(Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million
dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-1015.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after payment and
extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and transfer of
monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty
million dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-
1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from monies
transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance fund does
not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section, the
director of environmental quality shall deposit into the regulated substance
fund monies collected by the department pursuant to section 49-1031,
Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues
collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition
to monies encumbered and deposited in the monitored natural attenuation
account, is received by the regulated substance fund. )
 ARS 49-1034 [Conditionally repealed - see note] Audits (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1034. [Conditionally repealed - see note] Audits

The director may require a person who is required to pay the tax under this
article to appear, at reasonable times and on reasonable notice, at the
director's office and produce such records and information as are specified
in the notice to determine compliance with this article. The director shall
audit the records of a sufficient number of taxpayers under this section to
ensure general compliance with this article.

(Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million
dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-1015.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after payment and
extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and transfer of
monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty
million dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-
1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from monies
transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance fund does
not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section, the
director of environmental quality shall deposit into the regulated substance
fund monies collected by the department pursuant to section 49-1031,
Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues
collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition
to monies encumbered and deposited in the monitored natural attenuation
account, is received by the regulated substance fund. )
ARS 49-1035 [Conditionally repealed - see note] Interest; penalty;
         lien (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1035. [Conditionally repealed - see note] Interest; penalty;
lien

A. If the tax, or any portion of the tax, is not paid on or before the date
prescribed for its payment, the director shall collect, as part of the tax,
interest on the unpaid amount at the rate determined pursuant to section
42-1123 from the date prescribed for payment until the full amount is paid.

B. If a taxpayer fails to make and file a return as required under this article
on or before the due date as extended by the director, unless the failure is
due to reasonable cause and not due to wilful neglect, a penalty of five per
cent of the tax found to be remaining due shall be added to the tax for each
month or fraction of a month elapsing between the due date of the return
and the date on which it is filed. The total penalty shall not exceed twenty-
five per cent of the tax remaining due. The penalty so added to the tax is due
and payable on notice and demand by the director.

C. If any tax, interest or penalty imposed by this article is not paid when due,
the unpaid amounts are a lien from the date the amounts became due on all
real and personal property and rights to property belonging to the taxpayer.
The lien may be perfected by recording a notice of lien in the county in
which the property is located. The notice shall specify the nature of the tax,
the amount of tax, interest and penalty due, the taxable period for which the
amounts are due and the name and last known address of the taxpayer who
is liable for the amounts.

(Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million
dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-1015.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after payment and
extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and transfer of
monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty
million dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-
1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from monies
transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance fund does
not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section, the
director of environmental quality shall deposit into the regulated substance
fund monies collected by the department pursuant to section 49-1031,
Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues
collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition
to monies encumbered and deposited in the monitored natural attenuation
account, is received by the regulated substance fund. )
  ARS 49-1036 Remission and disposition of revenues (Arizona
               Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1036. Remission and disposition of revenues

The director shall promptly deposit, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147,
all monies collected under this article and shall credit these payments to the
underground storage tank revolving fund.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 16, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed effective on the
earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, after payment and extinguishment of all claims that
were timely submitted and transfer of monies as prescribed by section 8,
paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, from monies transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If
the regulated substance fund does not receive sixty million dollars pursuant
to paragraph 1 of this section, the director of environmental quality shall
deposit into the regulated substance fund monies collected by the
department pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, until a
total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues collected pursuant to section 49-
1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition to monies encumbered and
deposited in the monitored natural attenuation account, is received by the
regulated substance fund. )
   ARS 49-1051 Preapproval process; requirements; corrective
    action priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1051. Preapproval process; requirements; corrective action
priority

A. An owner, an operator, the designated representative of the owner or
operator or a person that meets the requirements of section 49-1016,
subsection C must follow the preapproval process pursuant to this section to
be eligible for reimbursement from the underground storage tank revolving
fund for corrective actions taken pursuant to section 49-1053, subsection A.
Preapproval applications must include a detailed scope of work that
conforms to the requirements of sections 49-1005 and 49-1053, a schedule
for conducting corrective actions and a cost sheet. Beginning January 1,
2016 and except as prescribed in subsection J of this section , corrective
actions and costs for activities that were completed before departmental
approval of the scope of work are not eligible for reimbursement under
section 49-1054. If the preapproved scope of work cannot be implemented
as approved, the person seeking reimbursement shall submit a change
notice to the department. To be eligible for reimbursement, a change notice
must be approved by the department before implementation of the change
notice.

B. This section does not relieve an owner, an operator or the designated
representative of the owner or operator from any of the requirements of this
chapter.

C. While the application for preapproval is pending, the department may not
take enforcement action or impose penalties against the owner, operator or
designated representative who submitted the application for preapproval.
The department may not consider the passage of time while the preapproval
application is pending to be a basis for taking an enforcement action. For
any corrective action submitted for preapproval pursuant to rule, the period
of time for compliance with corrective actions associated with that
preapproval begins to run after the date of preapproval of the corrective
action.

D. On determination by the department or its designated contractor that the
application for preapproval is complete, the department or its designated
contractor shall determine whether the owner or operator was a small owner
at the time of the application. For the purposes of this subsection, "small
owner" means an owner that owns fewer than twenty underground storage
tank facilities in this state.

E. In processing the application for preapproval, the department shall
determine the corrective action priority of the release within ninety days
after the receipt of the materials required by this section. The corrective
action priority shall be based on all of the following:
   ARS 49-1051 Preapproval process; requirements; corrective
    action priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. The need for financial assistance, including the availability of coverage
under insurance or other financial assurance mechanisms.

2. The extent to which a delay in reimbursement will affect the ability to
conduct corrective actions.

3. The risk to human health and the environment.

4. The presence of preexisting contamination of groundwater by a hazardous
substance as defined in section 49-281.

F. An owner, operator or person who meets the requirements of section 49-
1016, subsection C may request reimbursement under section 49-1053.
Subject to the availability of monies allocated and the assigned priority of
the site pursuant to subsection E of this section, the department may make
reimbursements from the underground storage tank revolving fund.

G. An application for preapproval and reimbursement pursuant to this
section shall be on a form provided by the department and shall contain
sufficient information to allow the director to make a determination of
priority for that request.

H. Any determination made by the department pursuant to this section
constitutes a written interim determination relating to preapproval pursuant
to section 49-1091.

I. The department may alter the corrective action priority of the release at
any time based on the results of sampling and monitoring conducted
pursuant to this section or any other information obtained by the
department.

J. Corrective actions and costs for activities that were completed before the
department's approval of the scope of work are eligible for reimbursement
under section 49-1054 if the applicant otherwise complies with subsection A
of this section, the corrective actions and costs for activities could not
reasonably have been incurred through the preapproval process and any of
the following apply:

1. For corrective actions and costs for activities that are completed from and
after december 31, 2015 through december 31, 2019 and that are not the
subject of a preapproval or reimbursement under time-barred claims
provisions because the applicant's financial responsibility mechanism was
defective at the time of the release or the release occurred before financial
responsibility was in place, the applicant is eligible for reimbursement for
those corrective actions and costs for activities that are incurred from and
after the date the applicant demonstrates to the department that the
   ARS 49-1051 Preapproval process; requirements; corrective
    action priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


applicant is in compliance with financial responsibility requirements and the
financial responsibility is demonstrated to the department before january 1,
2019. From and after december 31, 2018, the applicant is only eligible for
reimbursement for corrective actions and costs incurred in response to
releases confirmed after the date the applicant has demonstrated
compliance with financial responsibility requirements.

2. For corrective actions and costs for activities completed from and after
december 31, 2015 through december 31, 2019, and for which the applicant's
compliance with the preapproval process was impracticable due to:

(a) The urgency of the corrective action to address newly discovered
contamination.

(b) The need for corrective action to avoid risk to public health and the
environment.

3. For corrective actions and costs for activities completed from and after
december 31, 2015 through december 31, 2018, the corrective actions and
costs are not the subject of a time-barred claim or were not otherwise
reimbursed by the department.

4. Only for corrective actions and costs of activities completed before
january 1, 2019, the claim for reimbursement is received by the department
before january 1, 2020 and paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection applies.

K. The department shall develop an expedited preapproval process not later
than december 31, 2019 to address those corrective action costs incurred for
newly discovered contamination and to address those corrective action costs
necessary to avoid risk to public health and the environment.

L. Direct costs incurred by the department in conducting corrective action
pursuant to section 49-1017 that are in excess of the coverage limits
applicable to time-barred claims as otherwise provided by law shall reduce
the amount otherwise payable to an owner or operator pursuant to section
49-1054 but any amount remaining under section 49-1054 shall be available
to the owner or operator for additional corrective action costs.

M. For direct costs incurred by the department in conducting corrective
action pursuant to section 49-1017 after december 31, 2016, the owner or
operator is liable to the department for any amount incurred except for the
amount that is eligible and within the amount allowable under section 49-
1054.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 114,s. 1, eff. 8/27/2019. Amended by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1.
   ARS 49-1051 Preapproval process; requirements; corrective
    action priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated substance fund established
by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after
payment and extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and
transfer of monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2.
Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated substance fund established
by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from
monies transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance
fund does not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
section, the director of environmental quality shall deposit into the
regulated substance fund monies collected by the department pursuant to
section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million
dollars of tax revenues collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona
Revised Statutes, in addition to monies encumbered and deposited in the
monitored natural attenuation account, is received by the regulated
substance fund. )
     ARS 49-1052 Noncorrective actions; baseline assessment
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1052. Noncorrective actions; baseline assessment

A. A baseline period of seven years after January 1, 2016 is established for
underground storage tanks. Beginning January 1, 2016, during the baseline
period, an owner, operator or person who meets the requirements of section
49-1016, subsection C may do the following:

1. Elect to conduct a baseline assessment pursuant to this section.

2. Request monies to cover costs associated with the baseline assessment
pursuant to section 49-1071.

3. Request the department to perform the baseline assessment under section
49-1017.02.

B. The department shall establish standards for conducting baseline
assessments pursuant to this section. Until the department establishes
standards by rule or by guidance documents, baseline assessment work
plans shall be submitted to the department for approval and shall be
considered for preapproval on a case-by-case basis, based on compliance
with subsection D of this section.

C. Baseline assessments shall be conducted under the direction of a person
who is a professional engineer or a registered geologist who is registered
under title 32, chapter 1 or a remediation specialist .

D. The scope of the baseline assessment shall address likely release areas
and shall include a collection of sufficient information to allow for a
determination of the current environmental condition of the property.
Samples shall be collected in areas where contamination is most likely to
have occurred and sample locations shall consider site-specific conditions,
location of potential receptors and preexisting contamination. The baseline
assessment must include the registered or certified professional's
interpretation regarding confirmation of an unknown release and evaluation
of potential risk for the purpose of prioritizing corrective actions.

E. If unknown contamination is identified in the baseline assessment, all of
the following apply:

1. The owner, operator or person that meets the requirements of section 49-
1016, subsection C shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to
section 49-1004 and shall initiate corrective actions pursuant to section 49-
1005.
     ARS 49-1052 Noncorrective actions; baseline assessment
           (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


2. Unless documentation is provided to the department that demonstrates
that the operating underground storage tank is not the source of the release,
the department shall require tightness testing.

3. If continued operation of the underground storage tank may result in a
continued release, the department may initiate delivery prohibition as
prescribed in section 49-1023.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 114,s. 2, eff. 8/27/2019. Amended by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015. Amended by L. 2013, ch. 244,s. 2, eff. 9/13/2013.
Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million
dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-1015.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after payment and
extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and transfer of
monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty
million dollars into the regulated substance fund established by section 49-
1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from monies
transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance fund does
not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section, the
director of environmental quality shall deposit into the regulated substance
fund monies collected by the department pursuant to section 49-1031,
Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues
collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition
to monies encumbered and deposited in the monitored natural attenuation
account, is received by the regulated substance fund. )
      ARS 49-1053 Reimbursement of corrective action costs;
       definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1053. Reimbursement of corrective action costs; definition

A. The department may provide reimbursement from the underground
storage tank revolving fund under the preapproval process prescribed in
section 49-1051 in the amounts authorized by section 49-1054 of the costs
incurred for the following:

1. Sampling, analysis and reporting that are initiated pursuant to section 49-
1004 and that confirm the presence of a release that requires corrective
action pursuant to section 49-1005.

2. Sampling, analysis and reporting that are initiated pursuant to section 49-
1008 and that confirm the presence of a release that requires corrective
action pursuant to section 49-1005.

3. Corrective actions initiated pursuant to section 49-1005.

4. Preparation of the initial approved preapproval application and the
consulting expenses incurred in participating in the initial preapproval
meeting but not more than two percent of the amount incurred for the
project cost in the first year. Costs must be submitted in the first
reimbursement request for corrective actions that is submitted pursuant to
section 49-1054.

B. The department may provide the reimbursement required by this section
either by paying the owner, the operator or a designated representative of
the owner or operator or any combination of these persons, a political
subdivision pursuant to subsection F of this section or a person who meets
the requirements of section 49-1016, subsection C. If the department
determines that an application for reimbursement is incomplete, the
department within forty-five days after receiving the application shall notify
the applicant of the missing information as specifically as possible and shall
allow the applicant to provide the additional information within thirty days.
On the request of an applicant, the department shall grant an additional
sixty days to submit the missing information. The grant of additional time
tolls the period for making an interim determination on matters relating to
reimbursement pursuant to section 49-1091.

C. The department may not pay for eligible costs unless the department
determines that the eligible activities have met, or when completed will
meet, the applicable requirements of section 49-1004 or 49-1005. The
department may require by rule that persons that perform payable eligible
activities meet specified standards of qualification and be approved by the
department.
      ARS 49-1053 Reimbursement of corrective action costs;
       definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


D. The department may not provide any reimbursement described in this
article to an owner or operator of underground storage tanks described in
section 49-1031, subsection C. The department may not provide any
reimbursement described in this article with respect to the substances
described in section 49-1031, subsection C, unless the tax imposed by article
2 of this chapter applies to such substances.

E. The department shall establish criteria for determining priorities among
the applications from small owners for reimbursement under this article.
For all other owners that are eligible for reimbursement from the fund
through the cost sharing prescribed in section 49-1006.02, subsection B,
priority shall be based on the date of completion of the work. The criteria for
small owners shall include:

1. The need for financial assistance.

2. The extent to which a delay in providing reimbursement will affect an
eligible activity in progress.

3. The date on which an application for reimbursement is submitted to the
department.

4. Whether the payment has been previously deferred because of insufficient
monies in the underground storage tank revolving fund and, if deferred, the
length of the deferral.

F. The department may provide the reimbursement described in this article
for eligible activity costs incurred by a political subdivision with respect to a
release from an underground storage tank if the underground storage tank
or the property where the underground storage tank is located comes into
the possession or control of the political subdivision under title 12, chapter
8, article 2 or 3.

G. Subject to section 38-503 and other applicable statutes and rules, the
department may contract with a private consultant for the purpose of
assisting the department in reviewing preapproval and reimbursement
applications, site characterization reports, corrective action plans,
monitoring reports and other information to determine whether corrective
actions meet the criteria and requirements of this chapter and the rules
adopted by the director.

H. Requests by the department for additional information from applicants
shall be reasonably related to the determination of the validity of the claim
as prescribed by this article.
      ARS 49-1053 Reimbursement of corrective action costs;
       definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


I. Except for appeals costs authorized pursuant to section 49-1091.01,
applications for reimbursement under a preapproved scope of work shall be
submitted to the department not more than one year after the applicant
receives a closure letter sent by the department by certified mail with notice
that the applicant has one year to submit a claim for that release. Failure to
submit a timely reimbursement request under a preapproved scope of work
shall result in denial of the claim. The time limit prescribed by this
subsection does not apply to closed releases that are subsequently reopened
for the performance of additional corrective actions or at which corrective
actions are proceeding pursuant to a work plan for preapproval submitted
before the release was closed.

J. The department may provide reimbursement under a preapproved scope
of work for the reasonable, necessary, cost-effective and technically feasible
costs of corrective actions relating to soil remediation that are consistent
with remediation standards adopted pursuant to chapter 1, article 4 of this
title or site-specific, risk-based levels as determined under rules adopted
pursuant to this chapter. The department may provide reimbursement
under a preapproved scope of work for the reasonable, necessary, cost-
effective and technically feasible costs of corrective actions relating to
groundwater remediation to predetermined standards or site-specific, risk-
based levels as determined under rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
The department may provide reimbursement for corrective actions related
to the control and removal of a source of contamination. A source of
contamination includes any one or more of the following:

1. Free product.

2. A regulated substance present in soil that causes or threatens to cause an
exceedance of the aquifer water quality standards.

3. A regulated substance present in groundwater at levels that would prevent
timely reduction of contaminant concentrations in comparison with the
performance of active remediation.

4. Any other presence of a regulated substance causing an ongoing source of
contamination, as determined by the department.

K. On preapproval by the department or its designated contractor of
corrective action costs for small owners, the department or its designated
contractor shall encumber monies in the corrective action allocation for that
year. If monies are available in the corrective action allocation for that year,
reimbursement shall be made when the corrective action for which the
monies were encumbered is completed as determined by the department or
its designated contractor.
      ARS 49-1053 Reimbursement of corrective action costs;
       definition (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


L. The department or its designated contractor shall preapprove
reimbursement of corrective action costs for an owner that is not a small
owner without encumbering monies. If monies are available in the
corrective action allocation for that year at the end of the corrective action
allocation year, reimbursement shall be based on the date the corrective
action is completed as determined by the department or its designated
contractor.

M. If there are insufficient monies to pay for approved corrective action in
any annual corrective action allocation, the department shall reimburse the
corrective action from the next annual corrective action allocation, with the
priority that reimbursements first go to small owners.

N. The department may not accept an application to the underground
storage tank revolving fund for reimbursement from an applicant for costs
associated with a single facility more frequently than once each calendar
month, and the department may not accept an application for costs
associated with a single facility for an amount of less than $5,000 unless the
reimbursement is the final application associated with the facility.

O. An application for reimbursement pursuant to this section shall be on a
form provided by the department and shall contain sufficient information to
allow the director to make a determination of priority for that request.

P. For the purposes of this section, "small owner" means an owner that owns
fewer than twenty underground storage tank facilities in this state.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 114,s. 3, eff. 8/27/2019. Amended by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed effective on the earlier of the following: 1.
Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated substance fund established
by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, after
payment and extinguishment of all claims that were timely submitted and
transfer of monies as prescribed by section 8, paragraph 2 of this act. 2.
Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated substance fund established
by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, from
monies transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If the regulated substance
fund does not receive sixty million dollars pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
section, the director of environmental quality shall deposit into the
regulated substance fund monies collected by the department pursuant to
section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, until a total of sixty million
dollars of tax revenues collected pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona
Revised Statutes, in addition to monies encumbered and deposited in the
monitored natural attenuation account, is received by the regulated
substance fund. )
ARS 49-1054 Extent of reimbursement (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1054. Extent of reimbursement

A. The department may provide reimbursement from the underground
storage tank revolving fund for the reasonable and necessary costs of eligible
activities pursuant to section 49-1053, subsection A for releases that are
reported before the end of the baseline period established pursuant to
section 49-1052. Receipt of financial assistance from the underground
storage tank revolving fund does not constitute a financial assurance
mechanism and may not be used to demonstrate compliance with financial
responsibility requirements or to provide compensation to third parties for
bodily injury or property damage. Reimbursement from the underground
storage tank revolving fund to owners, operators and persons that meet the
requirements of section 49-1016, subsection C may not exceed one million
dollars per facility.

B. The department may compel the production of documents to determine
the existence, amount and type of insurance or alternative coverage
available. An owner, operator or person that meets the requirements of
section 49-1016, subsection C shall report to the department any payment of
corrective actions costs through insurance and alternative mechanisms.

C. The department may not disburse more than the maximum amounts
prescribed by subsection A of this section from the underground storage
tank revolving fund for corrective action costs associated with a facility.

D. The department shall pay eligible costs that are reasonable and were
actually incurred for corrective actions that were actually performed. The
costs for the corrective actions shall be submitted as prescribed in sections
49-1051 and 49-1053. The department shall pay only for corrective actions
that have been completed and that have been conducted pursuant to the
preapproval approved by the department. Reasonableness of corrective
actions shall be determined based on the law and the facts available to the
owner, operator or person that meets the requirements of section 49-1016,
subsection C at the time the technical decision was made. The department
shall establish schedules of corrective action costs that the department
considers reasonable.

E. The owner or operator is eligible for payment from the department to the
extent that the corrective action costs have not been reimbursed to the
owner or operator, or its consultant, representative or agent, by insurance or
by an alternative financial assurance mechanism. A provider of insurance or
an alternative financial assurance mechanism who is not an owner or
operator with respect to the occurrence is not eligible for payment from the
underground storage tank revolving fund.
ARS 49-1054 Extent of reimbursement (Arizona Revised Statutes
                        (2021 Edition))


F. An owner or operator shall report to the department whether it has
insurance coverage available and shall comply with all applicable financial
responsibility requirements. If the director has reason to believe that an
owner or operator, or its consultant, representative or agent, has received or
may receive any payment for corrective actions from insurance or
alternative financial assurance mechanism, the department may compel the
production of documents to determine the existence, amount and type of
insurance or alternative financial assurance coverage available and to whom
payment was made or may be made. An owner or operator shall report to
the department any subsequent payment or reimbursement from insurance
or an alternative financial assurance mechanism to the owner or operator or
its consultant, representative or agent for corrective actions costs.

G. The owner or operator shall remit to the department within thirty days
any amounts that were previously paid to the owner or operator or its
consultant, representative or agent from the underground storage tank
revolving fund and that have also been recovered from insurance or any
alternative financial assurance mechanisms.

H. Appeals fees and costs payable pursuant to section 49-1091.01 shall be
paid in the next regular round of payment without being subject to ranking
and in the order received by the department.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed effective on the
earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, after payment and extinguishment of all claims that
were timely submitted and transfer of monies as prescribed by section 8,
paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, from monies transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If
the regulated substance fund does not receive sixty million dollars pursuant
to paragraph 1 of this section, the director of environmental quality shall
deposit into the regulated substance fund monies collected by the
department pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, until a
total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues collected pursuant to section 49-
1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition to monies encumbered and
deposited in the monitored natural attenuation account, is received by the
regulated substance fund. )
ARS 49-1055 Extent of reimbursement; termination of eligibility
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1055. Extent of reimbursement; termination of eligibility

A. from and after December 31, 2022, only those releases of a regulated
substance that are reported before January 1, 2023 as prescribed in section
49-1004 are eligible for corrective action cost reimbursements from the
underground storage tank revolving fund.

B. An application for reimbursement of eligible costs from the underground
storage tank revolving fund shall be filed with the department not later than
5:00 p.m. on December 31, 2030.

C. An application for preapproval made pursuant to section 49-1051 shall be
filed with the department not later than 5:00 p.m. on December 31, 2029.

D. Any application made or expense incurred after December 31, 2030 is not
eligible for reimbursement from the underground storage tank revolving
fund and all such claims are extinguished.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015. Repealed effective on the
earlier of the following: 1. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, after payment and extinguishment of all claims that
were timely submitted and transfer of monies as prescribed by section 8,
paragraph 2 of this act. 2. Receipt of sixty million dollars into the regulated
substance fund established by section 49-1015.01, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, from monies transferred pursuant to this paragraph. If
the regulated substance fund does not receive sixty million dollars pursuant
to paragraph 1 of this section, the director of environmental quality shall
deposit into the regulated substance fund monies collected by the
department pursuant to section 49-1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, until a
total of sixty million dollars of tax revenues collected pursuant to section 49-
1031, Arizona Revised Statutes, in addition to monies encumbered and
deposited in the monitored natural attenuation account, is received by the
regulated substance fund. )
  ARS 49-1056 Lien rights; unrecovered corrective action costs;
     lien amount (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1056. Lien rights; unrecovered corrective action costs; lien
amount

A. If the department or this state incurs unrecovered corrective action costs
from a corrective action undertaken on behalf of a volunteer, a property
owner, a person other than the underground storage tank owner or an
owner or operator that did not have the required financial responsibility
mechanism at the time the release is discovered or the claim is filed, the
department has a lien on the property , or, by agreement with the
responsible party, may obtain a lien on any other property or other financial
responsibility mechanism of the responsible party.

B. The lien shall be in the amount of the estimated increase in the market
value of the property as determined by a commercial real estate appraiser
who shall determine the difference between the current market value of the
property and the estimated market value of the property after corrective
action is complete. the director shall use an appraiser who is a member of a
nationally recognized real estate appraisal association, institute or society.

C. The department shall reduce the amount of the lien as follows:

1. To the amount of the total unrecovered corrective action costs if that
amount is less than the difference between the current market value of the
property and the estimated market value of the property after corrective
action is complete.

2. If a volunteer, a property owner, a person other than the underground
storage tank owner or an owner or operator that did not have the required
financial responsibility mechanism at the time the release is discovered or
the claim is filed makes a determination at any time after corrective action
begins that a change in circumstances has substantially reduced the increase
in the market value of the property.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 114,s. 4, eff. 8/27/2019. Added by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015.)
  ARS 49-1057 Intergovernmental agreements (Arizona Revised
                    Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1057. Intergovernmental agreements

The department may enter into intergovernmental agreements with Indian
tribes pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 to extend to the tribes the
partial coverage provided by this article and the responsibilities imposed by
articles 1 and 2 of this chapter.

(Added by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015.)
    ARS 49-1071 Noncorrective action tank site improvement;
   purposes; priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1071. Noncorrective action tank site improvement; purposes;
priority

A. Subject to the availability of monies in the underground storage tank
revolving fund that are annually allocated by the director for each of the
following types of actions, an owner, operator or person that meets the
requirements of section 49-1016, subsection C may request that the
department provide monies for that person to conduct one or more of the
following actions, up to a maximum of $300,000 per site:

1. Actions necessary to ensure that the underground storage tank, its piping
and its under-dispenser containment comply with standards for new
installations prescribed by section 49-1009 or other applicable federal
requirements, including replacement of system components, up to a
maximum of $200,000.

2. Removal of underground storage tanks for purposes of permanent closure
or replacement, up to a maximum of $25,000 per tank. if petroleum
contaminated media that require over-excavation are encountered during
removal of the underground storage tank, up to an additional $15,000 per
site is available for reimbursement.

3. Confirmation of a suspected release at a tank or site, up to a maximum of
$20,000.

4. Obtaining a baseline assessment of a site as prescribed in section 49-1052,
up to a maximum of $40,000.

B. In determining the priority for requests under subsection A of this
section, the director may consider the following factors:

1. The age, construction and operational history of the underground storage
tank.

2. The hydrogeologic characteristics of the site where the underground
storage tank is located and the surrounding area.

3. The proximity, quality and current and future uses of nearby surface
water and groundwater.

4. The potential effects of residual contamination on nearby surface water
and groundwater.

5. The degree of exposure.

6. The financial resources of the applicant.
    ARS 49-1071 Noncorrective action tank site improvement;
   purposes; priority (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


C. an application for funding and request for reimbursement under this
section shall be on a form provided by the department and shall include:

1. Detailed information about the site, including the type, number and
location of tanks.

2. Information about the owner and operator, including the type of financial
responsibility.

3. A description of the evidence of any release or suspected release.

4. The proposed actions necessary to meet tank and system performance
standards.

D. Monies may not be provided under this section for work that takes place
more than one year after the date that monies are approved.

E. An application for monies pursuant to this section may be filed with the
department at any time during the actions prescribed by subsection A of this
section but only those costs incurred after the department approves the
application are eligible for reimbursement. The maximum amounts
prescribed in this section apply to applications approved by the department
whether before or after the effective date of this amendment to this section.

(Amended by L. 2019, ch. 114,s. 6, eff. 8/27/2019. Amended by L. 2015, ch.
247,s. 18, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-1072 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1072. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 17, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-1073 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1073. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 17, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-1081 Definitions (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                           Edition))


§ 49-1081. Definitions

In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:

1. "Attended facility" means an underground storage tank facility at which it
is the usual and customary practice for the owner or operator, or any
employee of the owner or operator, to be present on site during normal
hours of operation.

2. "Class A individual" means a person designated by the owner or operator
as having primary management responsibility or decision-making authority
for the operation, maintenance and record keeping of an underground
storage tank facility. The person may or may not be the owner or operator.

3. "Class B individual" means a person designated by the owner or operator
as having daily responsibility for the operation, maintenance and record
keeping of an underground storage tank facility. The person may or may not
be the owner or operator.

4. "Class C individual" means a person designated by the owner or operator
as having daily responsibility for an initial response to an alarm or other
indication of an emergency caused by a release or suspected release from an
underground storage tank. The person may or may not be the owner or
operator.

5. "Supervision" means the immediate, on-site control and direction by a
person certified by the department in accordance with section 49-1082 and
the rules adopted pursuant to section 49-1082 of a person who is performing
tank service and who is not certified in accordance with section 49-1082 and
the rules adopted pursuant to section 49-1082.

6. "Tank service" means installation, retrofitting, tank tightness testing,
closure, cathodic protection or interior tank lining of an underground
storage tank or a part of an underground storage tank.
 ARS 49-1082 Certification of underground storage tank service
   providers; rules; suspension or revocation of certification
          (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))

§ 49-1082. Certification of underground storage tank service
providers; rules; suspension or revocation of certification

A. Beginning from and after December 31, 1996, a person shall not perform
tank services on an underground storage tank system unless the person is
certified in accordance with this section and the rules adopted pursuant to
this section, or is supervised by a person certified in accordance with this
section and the rules adopted pursuant to this section.

B. The department shall not certify a person as a tank service provider until
that person completes the requirements of this section and the rules adopted
pursuant to this section. In accordance with subsection D, the supervisor is
responsible for all persons performing work under the direction of the
supervisor and any violations of this section or rules adopted pursuant to
this section are attributable to the supervisor.

C. By January 1, 1997, the department shall adopt rules for the
establishment and maintenance of an underground storage tank service
provider certification program. The certification program shall include the
submittal and verification of information that the director determines is
necessary to ensure that the tank service provider possesses and maintains
the essential knowledge, skills and work history to perform the service
effectively and in a manner that protects human health and the
environment. The department may establish separate certification methods
for each area of tank service as it is defined, and may define the duration of
the certification period, which shall be at least one year.

D. The department, on reasonable evidence, may suspend or revoke the
certification of any person who fails to maintain the standards established
pursuant to this section or who exhibits incompetence, negligence or fraud
in performing the certified activity or in other work relating to the certified
activity. A person whose certification is revoked or suspended pursuant to
this subsection may appeal the decision pursuant to title 41, chapter 6,
article 10.
       ARS 49-1083 Designation; training; record keeping
  requirements; rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1083. Designation; training; record keeping requirements;
rules

A. Beginning August 9, 2012, an owner or operator shall designate a class A
individual who must be trained pursuant to subsections E and F of this
section within thirty days or another period specified by the director after
being designated by the owner or operator.

B. Beginning August 9, 2012, an owner or operator must designate a class B
individual who must be trained pursuant to subsections E and F of this
section within thirty days or another period specified by the director after
being designated by the owner or operator.

C. Beginning August 9, 2012, an owner or operator must designate one or
more class C individuals who must be trained pursuant to subsections E and
F of this section before assuming the role of a class C individual. For an
attended facility, a class C individual must be on site during the usual and
customary hours of operation.

D. The class A individual and class B individual shall be retrained if the
director determines that an underground storage tank at the facility is not
equipped and operated in accordance with release detection, corrosion
protection, spill prevention and overfill protection in compliance with
sections 49-1003, 49-1009 and 49-1023 and the rules adopted under those
sections, as applicable. Documentation of the retraining must be maintained
in accordance with subsection G of this section.

E. The director shall establish the duration for which training is valid and
the duration shall not be less than one year or more than three years.

F. The training shall be in a format approved by the director and shall
include the following:

1. For a class a individual, the requirements associated with notification
under section 49-1002, release detection under section 49-1003, reporting
requirements under section 49-1004, financial responsibility under section
49-1006, closure under section 49-1008, underground storage tank
performance under section 49-1009, delivery prohibition under section 49-
1023 and this section and the rules adopted under those sections, as
applicable.

2. For a class B individual, the requirements associated with release
detection under section 49-1003, reporting requirements under section 49-
1004, underground storage tank performance under section 49-1009,
delivery prohibition under section 49-1023, the training requirements for a
       ARS 49-1083 Designation; training; record keeping
  requirements; rules (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


class C individual under paragraph 3 and the rules adopted under those
sections, as applicable.

3. For a class C individual, initial response procedures to an alarm or other
indication of an emergency caused by a release or suspected release from an
underground storage tank, including procedures for contacting a class A or
class B individual and any emergency responder.

G. An owner and operator shall document that the training requirements of
this section have been met for each class A, class B or class C individual.
Training shall be documented on a form prescribed by the director. Training
records shall be maintained for a period of not less than three years after the
training is completed and shall be available for inspection by the director on
request.

H. The director may adopt rules to implement this section.
     ARS 49-1091 Underground storage tank informal appeals
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1091. Underground storage tank informal appeals

A. A person that undertakes corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016,
subsection C or an owner or operator may informally appeal the following
decisions or determinations pursuant to this section:

1. A written interim decision from the underground storage tank program of
the department.

2. A written interim determination from the department on matters relating
to owner or operator status.

3. A written interim determination from the department on matters relating
to preapproval or reimbursement from the underground storage tank
revolving fund .

4. A written interim determination or decision relating to the allocation of
liability pursuant to this chapter.

B. The department's failure to respond with a written interim decision to the
owner's or operator's submission to the department of any documents
identified in subsection G of this section within one hundred twenty days
after receipt is a basis for an informal appeal.

C. A person that undertakes corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016,
subsection C or an owner or operator who is subject to an interim decision
or determination described in subsections A and B of this section, and who
disagrees with the interim decision or determination, may file a written
notice of disagreement with the department within thirty days after
receiving the department's interim decision or determination. The notice
shall include a description of the specific portions of the interim decision or
determination with which the person, owner or operator disagrees and may
include a request to meet with the department to resolve the disagreement.
The department shall schedule a meeting within thirty days after receiving
the request.

D. A person that requests a meeting pursuant to subsection C of this section
or an authorized representative of the person designated in writing may
attend the meeting with any individuals who may be helpful in discussing
the matter with the department.

E. The department shall issue a final written decision or determination
within forty-five days after receiving the notice of disagreement or within
fifteen days after a meeting pursuant to subsection C of this section,
whichever is later. If no notice of disagreement is filed, the department shall
issue a final written decision or determination within forty-five days after
     ARS 49-1091 Underground storage tank informal appeals
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


the issuance of the interim decision or determination. Before the expiration
of time for the department to issue a final written decision or determination,
the department may request additional information from the person who
has submitted a notice of disagreement that is necessary to make a final
decision or determination. A person that receives this request shall have
fifteen days to submit the requested information to the department. The
time frames for the department to issue a final decision or determination
shall be extended for up to fifteen days during the time the requested
information is outstanding, and for up to fifteen additional days, if
applicable, after any information is submitted to the department. The time
to submit the requested information may be extended for up to sixty days on
the request of a person that submits a notice of disagreement. The time
frames for the department to issue a final decision or determination shall be
extended accordingly. The time frames for the department to issue a final
decision or determination shall also be extended if information relating to
the subject of the notice of disagreement is not requested by the department
but is provided to the department for the first time less than fifteen days
after the date the department is required to issue a final decision or
determination. In this situation, the time frames shall be extended to allow
the department fifteen days after the date the information is submitted to
issue a final decision or determination. If the department fails to issue a
final written decision or determination within the time specified in this
subsection, the department's written interim decision or determination
becomes the final written decision or determination. The final written
decision or determination shall address the notice of disagreement received
pursuant to subsection C of this section. The final written decision or
determination is the only decision or determination that is appealable as an
appealable agency action as defined in section 41-1092 or a contested case as
defined in section 41-1001.

F. The period of time for compliance with corrective actions associated with
the subject matter of a notice of disagreement is tolled from the date that a
person who undertakes corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016,
subsection C or an owner or operator files a written notice of disagreement
with the department until the date the final decision or determination is
rendered by the department and any appeals are completed.

G. A written interim decision shall address one of the following technical
issues:

1. The department's approval, disapproval or notice of deficiency of site
characterization reports.

2. The department's approval, disapproval or notice of deficiency of
corrective action plans for soil or groundwater, or both.
     ARS 49-1091 Underground storage tank informal appeals
            (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


3. The department's approval, disapproval or notice of deficiency of a work
plan.

4. The department's determination or confirmation of a release.

5. The department's approval, disapproval or notice of deficiency of requests
for closing a case file corresponding to a release from a leaking underground
storage tank.

H. The department shall not alter the time limits prescribed by this chapter
by adoption of a time limit by rule.

I. The department's failure to respond with a written interim determination
to the owner's or operator's submission, or to the submission from a person
that undertakes corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C ,
of an application for preapproval or reimbursement from the underground
storage tank revolving fund within ninety days after receipt is a basis for an
informal appeal.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 19, eff. 7/2/2015.)
    ARS 49-1091.01 Fee and cost reimbursement; application;
      limitations (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


§ 49-1091.01. Fee and cost reimbursement; application;
limitations

A. This section applies to an owner, an operator or a person that undertakes
corrective action pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C for any of the
following:

1. A written interim determination or interim decision from the department
on matters relating to:

(a) Owner or operator status.

(b) Preapproval or reimbursement from the underground storage tank
revolving fund established by section 49-1015 .

2. The department's approval, disapproval or notice of deficiency of:

(a) Site characterization reports.

(b) Corrective action plans for soil or groundwater , or both.

B. An owner, operator or person that undertakes corrective action pursuant
to section 49-1016, subsection C shall receive reimbursement for reasonable
attorney fees, consultant fees and costs that are actually incurred and not
excessive in all proceedings that follow the interim decision or interim
determination pursuant to section 49-1091, if that party satisfies both of the
following requirements:

1. Submitted a written notice of the disagreement to the department within
thirty days pursuant to section 49-1091.

2. Requested and participated in a meeting with the department regarding
decisions or determinations pursuant to section 49-1091, subsection A,
paragraph 2 or subsection G, paragraph 1 or 2.

C. The attorney fees, consultant fees and costs shall be paid only for those
amounts that are reasonable, actually incurred and not excessive in the
portion of the proceedings that are the subject of the notice of disagreement
in which the owner, operator or person that undertakes corrective action
pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C prevailed, including proceedings
resulting in a favorable decision or determination from the department or in
a judicial proceeding.

D. The reimbursement provided by subsection B of this section is subject to
the following limitations:
    ARS 49-1091.01 Fee and cost reimbursement; application;
      limitations (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021 Edition))


1. Fees and costs shall not be paid if the department makes a favorable
determination or decision on the issue appealed before or in the final
decision or determination.

2. Fees and costs shall not be paid if all of the following conditions are met:

(a) Information requested pursuant to section 49-1053 , subsection B or
section 49-1091, subsection E is not provided to the department before the
time the department issues a final decision or determination that is adverse
to the owner, operator or person that undertakes corrective action pursuant
to section 49-1016, subsection C .

(b) The final decision or determination is subsequently reversed or
otherwise decided in favor of the person based on information previously
requested by the department.

3. In an appeal of a determination regarding an application for preapproval
or reimbursement from the underground storage tank revolving fund ,
attorney fees, consultant fees and costs paid pursuant to this subsection may
not exceed the amount that is in dispute.

4. If information requested by the department pursuant to section 49-1053 ,
subsection B or section 49-1091, subsection E is provided to the department
before the department issues a final decision or determination that is
adverse to the owner, operator or person that undertakes corrective action
pursuant to section 49-1016, subsection C , and the final decision or
determination is subsequently reversed or otherwise decided in favor of the
owner, operator or person that undertakes corrective action pursuant to
section 49-1016, subsection C based on that information, attorney fees,
consultant fees and costs shall only be paid for those amounts actually
incurred after the information was provided.

(Amended by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 20, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-1092 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1092. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 21, eff. 7/2/2015.)
     ARS 49-1093 [Repealed] (Arizona Revised Statutes (2021
                          Edition))


§ 49-1093. [Repealed]

(Repealed by L. 2015, ch. 247,s. 21, eff. 7/2/2015.)
