                                                                                             1




106TH CONGRESS                                                                         S. PRT.
               !                    COMMITTEE PRINT                           "
  2nd Session                                                                          106–59




      THE SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT
                                       AS AMENDED BY


  THE SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT OF 1996

                 PUBLIC LAW 104–182, AUGUST 6, 1996




  Printed for the use of the Committee on Environment and Public Works




                             U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
 67–528 CC                             WASHINGTON       :   2000



                            For sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office
             Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Sales Office, Washington, DC 20402
          COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
                         ONE HUNDRED SIXTH CONGRESS
                     BOB SMITH, New Hampshire, Chairman
JOHN W. WARNER, Virginia                 MAX BAUCUS, Montana
JAMES M. INHOFE, Oklahoma                DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN, New York
CRAIG THOMAS, Wyoming                    FRANK R. LAUTENBERG, New Jersey
CHRISTOPHER S. BOND, Missouri            HARRY REID, Nevada
GEORGE V. VOINOVICH, Ohio                BOB GRAHAM, Florida
MICHAEL D. CRAPO, Idaho                  JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN, Connecticut
ROBERT F. BENNETT, Utah                  BARBARA BOXER, California
KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON, Texas              RON WYDEN, Oregon
LINCOLN CHAFEE, Rhode Island
                          DAVE CONOVER, Staff Director
                        TOM SLITER, Minority Staff Director

                                    (II)
     TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR TITLE XIV OF THE PUBLIC
    HEALTH SERVICE ACT (‘‘SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT’’) 1
                     TITLE XIV—SAFETY OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
Sec. 1400. Short title ..............................................................................................        1

                                                PART A—DEFINITIONS
Sec. 1401. Definitions ............................................................................................           1

                                      PART B—PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
Sec.   1411.     Coverage ...............................................................................................    4
Sec.   1412.     National drinking water regulations ..................................................                      4
Sec.   1413.     State primary enforcement responsibility ..........................................                        24
Sec.   1414.     Enforcement of drinking water regulations .......................................                          25
Sec.   1415.     Variances ..............................................................................................   36
Sec.   1416.     Exemptions ...........................................................................................     42
Sec.   1417.     Prohibition on use of lead pipes, solder, and flux .............................                           46
Sec.   1418.     Monitoring of contaminants ................................................................                48
Sec.   1419.     Operator certification ...........................................................................         51
Sec.   1420.     Capacity development ..........................................................................            52

         PART C—PROTECTION                 OF   UNDERGROUND SOURCES                     OF    DRINKING WATER
Sec.   1421.     Regulations for State programs ..........................................................                  56
Sec.   1422.     State primary enforcement responsibility ..........................................                        58
Sec.   1423.     Enforcement of program ......................................................................              60
Sec.   1424.     Interim regulation of underground injections ....................................                          63
Sec.   1425.     Optional demonstration by States relating to oil or natural gas .....                                      64
Sec.   1426.     Regulation of State programs .............................................................                 65
Sec.   1427.     Sole source aquifer demonstration program ......................................                           65
Sec.   1428.     State programs to establish wellhead protection areas ....................                                 69
Sec.   1429.     State ground water protection grants .................................................                     72

                                         PART D—EMERGENCY POWERS
Sec. 1431. Emergency powers ...............................................................................                 73
Sec. 1432. Tampering with public water systems ...............................................                              74

                                        PART E—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1441. Assurance of availability of adequate supplies of chemicals nec-
  essary for treatment of water ..............................................................................               75
Sec. 1442. Research, technical assistance, information, training of personnel .                                              77
Sec. 1443. Grants for State programs ..................................................................                      81
Sec. 1444. Special study and demonstration project grants; guaranteed loans                                                  85
Sec. 1445. Records and inspections ......................................................................                    86
Sec. 1446. National Drinking Water Advisory Council .......................................                                  92
Sec. 1447. Federal agencies ...................................................................................              93
Sec. 1448. Judicial review .....................................................................................             96
Sec. 1449. Citizen’s civil action .............................................................................              97
Sec. 1450. General provisions ...............................................................................                98
Sec. 1451. Indian tribes .........................................................................................          101
Sec. 1452. State revolving loan funds ...................................................................                   102
  1 This table of contents is not part of title XIV of the Public Health Service Act but is set

forth for the convenience of the users of this publication.
                                                              (III)
                                                            IV
                                                                                                                      Page
Sec.   1453.     Source water quality assessment .........................................................            112
Sec.   1454.     Source water petition program ............................................................           113
Sec.   1455.     Water conservation plan ......................................................................       117
Sec.   1456.     Assistance to colonias ...........................................................................   118
Sec.   1457.     Estrogenic substances screening program ...........................................                  118
Sec.   1458.     Drinking water studies ........................................................................      119

    PART F—ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS TO REGULATE                                    THE   SAFETY       OF   DRINKING
                                 WATER
Sec. 1461. Definitions ............................................................................................   121
Sec. 1462. Recall of drinking water coolers with lead-lined tanks ....................                                122
Sec. 1463. Drinking water coolers containing lead .............................................                       122
Sec. 1464. Lead contamination in school drinking water ...................................                            123
Sec. 1465. øSchool drinking water¿ Federal assistance for State programs
  regarding lead contamination in school drinking water ...................................                           124
             THE SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT
                                   AS AMENDED BY

    THE SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT OF 1996

                                             NOTE

   Amendments made by Public Law 104–182 are shown as follows:
Existing law omitted is enclosed in øblack brackets¿, new matter
is printed in italic, existing law in which no change occurs is shown
in roman:



 TITLE XIV OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT (THE
            SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT) 1
               [As amended by P.L. 104–182, August 6, 1996]
         TITLE XIV—SAFETY OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
                                        SHORT TITLE

     SEC. 1400. This title may be cited as the ‘‘Safe Drinking Water
Act’’.
                                 PART A—DEFINITIONS
                                        DEFINITIONS

      SEC. 1401. For purposes of this title:
          (1) The term ‘‘primary drinking water regulation’’ means a
      regulation which—
               (A) applies to public water systems;
               (B) specifies contaminants which, in the judgment of
          the Administrator, may have any adverse effect on the
          health of persons;
               (C) specifies for each such contaminant either—
                    (i) a maximum contaminant level, if, in the judg-
               ment of the Administrator, it is economically and tech-
               nologically feasible to ascertain the level of such con-
               taminant in water in public water systems, or
                    (ii) if, in the judgment of the Administrator, it is
               not economically or technologically feasible to so ascer-
  1 This title, the ‘‘Safe Drinking Water Act’’, consists of title XIV of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300f–300j–9) as added by Public Law 93–523 (Dec. 16, 1974) and the amend-
ments made by subsequent enactments.
                                               (1)
                              2

          tain the level of such contaminant, each treatment
          technique known to the Administrator which leads to
          a reduction in the level of such contaminant sufficient
          to satisfy the requirements of section 1412; and
          (D) contains criteria and procedures to assure a supply
     of drinking water which dependably complies with such
     maximum contaminant levels; including accepted methods
     for quality control and testing procedures to insure compli-
     ance with such levels and to insure proper operation and
     maintenance of the system, and requirements as to (i) the
     minimum quality of water which may be taken into the
     system and (ii) siting for new facilities for public water
     systems. At any time after promulgation of a regulation re-
     ferred to in this paragraph, the Administrator may add
     equally effective quality control and testing procedures by
     guidance published in the Federal Register. Such proce-
     dures shall be treated as an alternative for public water
     systems to the quality control and testing procedures listed
     in the regulation.
     (2) The term ‘‘secondary drinking water regulation’’ means
a regulation which applies to public water systems and which
specifies the maximum contaminant levels which, in the judg-
ment of the Administrator, are requisite to protect the public
welfare. Such regulations may apply to any contaminant in
drinking water (A) which may adversely affect the odor or ap-
pearance of such water and consequently may cause a substan-
tial number of the persons served by the public water system
providing such water to discontinue its use, or (B) which may
otherwise adversely affect the public welfare. Such regulations
may vary according to geographic and other circumstances.
     (3) The term ‘‘maximum contaminant level’’ means the
maximum permissible level of a contaminant in water which is
delivered to any user of a public water system.
     ø(4) The¿ (4) PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.—
          (A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘public water system’’
     means a system for the provision to the public of øpiped
     water for human consumption¿ water for human consump-
     tion through pipes or other constructed conveyances, if such
     system has at least fifteen service connections or regularly
     serves at least twenty-five individuals. Such term includes
     øA¿ (i) any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution
     facilities under control of the operator of such system and
     used primarily in connection with such system, and øB¿
     (ii) any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not
     under such control which are used primarily in connection
     with such system.
          (B) CONNECTIONS.—
               (i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subparagraph
          (A), a connection to a system that delivers water by a
          constructed conveyance other than a pipe shall not be
          considered a connection, if—
                    (I) the water is used exclusively for purposes
               other than residential uses (consisting of drinking,
               bathing, and cooking, or other similar uses);
                               3

                    (II) the Administrator or the State (in the case
               of a State exercising primary enforcement respon-
               sibility for public water systems) determines that
               alternative water to achieve the equivalent level of
               public health protection provided by the applicable
               national primary drinking water regulation is pro-
               vided for residential or similar uses for drinking
               and cooking; or
                    (III) the Administrator or the State (in the
               case of a State exercising primary enforcement re-
               sponsibility for public water systems) determines
               that the water provided for residential or similar
               uses for drinking, cooking, and bathing is centrally
               treated or treated at the point of entry by the pro-
               vider, a pass-through entity, or the user to achieve
               the equivalent level of protection provided by the
               applicable national primary drinking water regu-
               lations.
               (ii) IRRIGATION DISTRICTS.—An irrigation district
          in existence prior to May 18, 1994, that provides pri-
          marily agricultural service through a piped water sys-
          tem with only incidental residential or similar use
          shall not be considered to be a public water system if
          the system or the residential or similar users of the sys-
          tem comply with subclause (II) or (III) of clause (i).
          (C) TRANSITION PERIOD.—A water supplier that would
     be a public water system only as a result of modifications
     made to this paragraph by the Safe Drinking Water Act
     Amendments of 1996 shall not be considered a public water
     system for purposes of the Act until the date that is two
     years after the date of enactment of this subparagraph. If
     a water supplier does not serve 15 service connections (as
     defined in subparagraphs (A) and (B)) or 25 people at any
     time after the conclusion of the 2-year period, the water
     supplier shall not be considered a public water system.
     (5) The term ‘‘supplier of water’’ means any person who
owns or operates a public water system.
     (6) The term ‘‘contaminant’’ means any physical, chemical,
biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
     (7) The term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency.
     (8) The term ‘‘Agency’’ means the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency.
     (9) The term ‘‘Council’’ means the National Drinking
Water Advisory Council established under section 1446.
     (10) The term ‘‘municipality’’ means a city, town, or other
public body created by or pursuant to State law, or an Indian
tribe.
     (11) The term ‘‘Federal agency’’ means any department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States.
     (12) The term ‘‘person’’ means an individual, corporation,
company, association, partnership, State, municipality, or Fed-
eral agency (and includes officers, employees, and agents of
                                   4

     any corporation, company, association, State, municipality, or
     Federal agency).
         (13) øThe¿ (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the
     term ‘‘State’’ includes, in addition to the several States, only
     the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto
     Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Amer-
     ican Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
         (B) For purposes of section 1452, the term ‘‘State’’ means
     each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Com-
     monwealth of Puerto Rico.
         (14) The term ‘‘Indian Tribe’’ means any Indian tribe hav-
     ing a Federally recognized governing body carrying out sub-
     stantial governmental duties and powers over any area. For
     purposes of section 1452, the term includes any Native village
     (as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settle-
     ment Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c))).
         (15) COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘community
     water system’’ means a public water system that—
              (A) serves at least 15 service connections used by year-
         round residents of the area served by the system; or
              (B) regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents.
         (16) NONCOMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘non-
     community water system’’ means a public water system that is
     not a community water system.
[42 U.S.C. 300f]

                      PART B—PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
                                COVERAGE

     SEC. 1411. Subject to sections 1415 and 1416, national primary
drinking water regulations under this part shall apply to each pub-
lic water system in each State; except that such regulations shall
not apply to a public water system—
         (1) which consists only of distribution and storage facilities
     (and does not have any collection and treatment facilities);
         (2) which obtains all of its water from, but is not owned
     or operated by, a public water system to which such regula-
     tions apply;
         (3) which does not sell water to any person; and
         (4) which is not a carrier which conveys passengers in
     interstate commerce.
[42 U.S.C. 300g]

                   NATIONAL DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS

     SEC. 1412. (a)(1) Effective on the enactment of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act Amendments of 1986, each national interim or re-
vised primary drinking water regulation promulgated under this
section before such enactment shall be deemed to be a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation under subsection (b). No such regu-
lation shall be required to comply with the standards set forth in
subsection (b)(4) unless such regulation is amended to establish a
different maximum contaminant level after the enactment of such
amendments.
                                  5

     (2) After the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
Amendments of 1986 each recommended maximum contaminant
level published before the enactment of such amendments shall
 be treated as a maximum contaminant level goal.
     (3) Whenever a national primary drinking water regulation is
proposed under øparagraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (b)¿ sub-
section (b) for any contaminant, the maximum contaminant level
goal for such contaminant shall be proposed simultaneously. When-
ever a national primary drinking water regulation is promulgated
under øparagraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (b)¿ subsection (b) for
any contaminant, the maximum contaminant level goal for such
contaminant shall be published simultaneously.
     (4) Paragraph (3) shall not apply to any recommended maxi-
mum contaminant level published before the enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986.
     ø(b)(1) In the case of those contaminants listed in the Advance
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking published in volume 47, Federal
Register, page 9352, and in volume 48, Federal Register, page
45502, the Administrator shall publish maximum contaminant
level goals and promulgate national primary drinking water
regulations—
               ø(A) not later than 12 months after the enactment of
          the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986 for not
          less than 9 of those listed contaminants;
               ø(B) not later than 24 months after such enactment
          for not less than 40 of those listed contaminants; and
               ø(C) not later than 36 months after such enactment
          for the remainder of such listed contaminants.
          ø(2)(A) If the Administrator identifies a drinking water
     contaminant the regulation of which, in the judgment of the
     Administrator, is more likely to be protective of public health
     (taking into account the schedule for regulation under para-
     graph (1) than a contaminant referred to in paragraph (1), the
     Administrator may publish a maximum contaminant level goal
     and promulgate a national primary drinking water regulation
     for such identified contaminant in lieu of regulating the con-
     taminant referred to in such paragraph. There may be no more
     than 7 contaminants in paragraph (1) for which substitutions
     may be made. Regulation of a contaminant identified under
     this paragraph shall be in accordance with the schedule appli-
     cable to the contaminant for which the substitution is made.
               ø(B) If the Administrator identifies one or more con-
          taminants for substitution under this paragraph, the Ad-
          ministrator shall publish in the Federal Register not late
          than one year after the enactment of the Safe Drinking
          Water Act Amendments of 1986 a list of contaminants pro-
          posed for substitution, the contaminants referred to in
          paragraph (1) for which substitutions are to be made, and
          the basis for the judgment that regulation of such pro-
          posed substitute contaminants is more likely to be protec-
          tive public health (taking into account the schedule for
          regulation under such paragraph). Following a period of 60
          days for public comment, the Administrator shall publish
          in the Federal Register a final list of contaminants to be
                              6

     substituted and contaminants referred to in paragraph (1)
     for which substitutions are to be made, together with re-
     sponses to significant comments.
          ø(C) Any contaminant referred to in paragraph (1) for
     which a substitution is made, pursuant to subparagraph
     (A) of this paragraph, shall be included on the priority list
     to be published by the Administrator not later than Janu-
     ary 1, 1988, pursuant to paragraph (3)(A).
          ø(D) The Administrator’s decision to regulate a con-
     taminant identified pursuant to this paragraph in lieu of
     a contaminant referred to in paragraph (1) shall not be
     subject to judicial review.
     ø(3)(A) The Administrator shall publish maximum con-
taminant level goals and promulgate national primary drink-
ing water regulations for each contaminant (other than a con-
taminant referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) for which a na-
tional primary drinking water regulation was promulgated)
which, in the judgment of the Administrator, may have any ad-
verse effect on the health of persons and which is known or an-
ticipated to occur in public water systems. Not later than Jan-
uary 1, 1988, and at 3-year intervals thereafter, the Adminis-
trator shall publish a list of contaminants which are known or
anticipated to occur in public water systems and which may re-
quire regulation under this Act.
          ø(B) For the purpose of establishing the list under
     subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall form an advi-
     sory working group including members from the National
     Toxicology Program and the Environmental Protection
     Agency’s Offices of Drinking Water, Pesticides, Toxic Sub-
     stances, Ground Water, Solid Waste and Emergency Re-
     sponse and any others the Administrator deems appro-
     priate. The Administrator’s consideration of priorities shall
     include, but not be limited to, substances referred to in
     section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
     sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, and sub-
     stances registered as pesticides under the Federal Insecti-
     cide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
          ø(C) Not later than 24 months after the listing of con-
     taminants under subparagraph (A), the Administrator
     shall publish proposed maximum contaminant level goals
     and national primary drinking water regulations for not
     less than 25 contaminants from the list established under
     subparagraph (A).
          ø(D) Not later than 36 months after the listing of con-
     taminants under subparagraph (A), the Administrator
     shall publish a maximum contaminant goal and promul-
     gate a national primary drinking water regulation for
     those contaminants for which proposed maximum contami-
     nant level goals and proposed national primary drinking
     water regulations were published under subparagraph
     (C).¿
(b) STANDARDS.—
     (1) IDENTIFICATION OF CONTAMINANTS FOR LISTING.—
                          7

     (A) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Administrator shall, in
accordance with the procedures established by this sub-
section, publish a maximum contaminant level goal and
promulgate a national primary drinking water regulation
for a contaminant (other than a contaminant referred to in
paragraph (2) for which a national primary drinking water
regulation has been promulgated as of the date of enact-
ment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996)
if the Administrator determines that—
          (i) the contaminant may have an adverse effect on
     the health of persons;
          (ii) the contaminant is known to occur or there is
     a substantial likelihood that the contaminant will
     occur in public water systems with a frequency and at
     levels of public health concern; and
          (iii) in the sole judgment of the Administrator, reg-
     ulation of such contaminant presents a meaningful op-
     portunity for health risk reduction for persons served
     by public water systems.
     (B) REGULATION OF UNREGULATED CONTAMINANTS.—
          (i) LISTING OF CONTAMINANTS FOR CONSIDER-
     ATION.—(I) Not later than 18 months after the date of
     enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
     of 1996 and every 5 years thereafter, the Administrator,
     after consultation with the scientific community, in-
     cluding the Science Advisory Board, after notice and
     opportunity for public comment, and after considering
     the occurrence data base established under section
     1445(g), shall publish a list of contaminants which, at
     the time of publication, are not subject to any proposed
     or promulgated national primary drinking water regu-
     lation, which are known or anticipated to occur in pub-
     lic water systems, and which may require regulation
     under this title.
          (II) The unregulated contaminants considered
     under subclause (I) shall include, but not be limited to,
     substances referred to in section 101(14) of the Com-
     prehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
     and Liability Act of 1980, and substances registered as
     pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
     and Rodenticide Act.
          (III) The Administrator’s decision whether or not
     to select an unregulated contaminant for a list under
     this clause shall not be subject to judicial review.
          (ii) DETERMINATION TO REGULATE.—(I) Not later
     than 5 years after the date of enactment of the Safe
     Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996, and every 5
     years thereafter, the Administrator shall, after notice of
     the preliminary determination and opportunity for
     public comment, for not fewer than 5 contaminants in-
     cluded on the list published under clause (i), make de-
     terminations of whether or not to regulate such con-
     taminants.
                          8

          (II) A determination to regulate a contaminant
     shall be based on findings that the criteria of clauses
     (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (A) are satisfied.
     Such findings shall be based on the best available pub-
     lic health information, including the occurrence data
     base established under section 1445(g).
          (III) The Administrator may make a determination
     to regulate a contaminant that does not appear on a
     list under clause (i) if the determination to regulate is
     made pursuant to subclause (II).
          (IV) A determination under this clause not to regu-
     late a contaminant shall be considered final agency ac-
     tion and subject to judicial review.
          (iii) REVIEW.—Each document setting forth the de-
     termination for a contaminant under clause (ii) shall
     be available for public comment at such time as the de-
     termination is published.
     (C) PRIORITIES.—In selecting unregulated contami-
nants for consideration under subparagraph (B), the Ad-
ministrator shall select contaminants that present the
greatest public health concern. The Administrator, in mak-
ing such selection, shall take into consideration, among
other factors of public health concern, the effect of such con-
taminants upon subgroups that comprise a meaningful por-
tion of the general population (such as infants, children,
pregnant women, the elderly, individuals with a history of
serious illness, or other subpopulations) that are identifi-
able as being at greater risk of adverse health effects due
to exposure to contaminants in drinking water than the
general population.
     (D) URGENT THREATS TO PUBLIC HEALTH.—The Admin-
istrator may promulgate an interim national primary
drinking water regulation for a contaminant without mak-
ing a determination for the contaminant under paragraph
(4)(C), or completing the analysis under paragraph (3)(C),
to address an urgent threat to public health as determined
by the Administrator after consultation with and written
response to any comments provided by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, acting through the director of
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the direc-
tor of the National Institutes of Health. A determination for
any contaminant in accordance with paragraph (4)(C) sub-
ject to an interim regulation under this subparagraph shall
be issued, and a completed analysis meeting the require-
ments of paragraph (3)(C) shall be published, not later
than 3 years after the date on which the regulation is pro-
mulgated and the regulation shall be repromulgated, or re-
vised if appropriate, not later than 5 years after that date.
     (E) REGULATION.—For each contaminant that the Ad-
ministrator determines to regulate under subparagraph (B),
the Administrator shall publish maximum contaminant
level goals and promulgate, by rule, national primary
drinking water regulations under this subsection. The Ad-
ministrator shall propose the maximum contaminant level
                          9

goal and national primary drinking water regulation for a
contaminant not later than 24 months after the determina-
tion to regulate under subparagraph (B), and may publish
such proposed regulation concurrent with the determination
to regulate. The Administrator shall publish a maximum
contaminant level goal and promulgate a national primary
drinking water regulation within 18 months after the pro-
posal thereof. The Administrator, by notice in the Federal
Register, may extend the deadline for such promulgation
for up to 9 months.
     (F) HEALTH ADVISORIES AND OTHER ACTIONS.—The Ad-
ministrator may publish health advisories (which are not
regulations) or take other appropriate actions for contami-
nants not subject to any national primary drinking water
regulation.
(2) SCHEDULES AND DEADLINES.—
     (A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of the contaminants list-
ed in the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking pub-
lished in volume 47, Federal Register, page 9352, and in
volume 48, Federal Register, page 45502, the Administrator
shall publish maximum contaminant level goals and pro-
mulgate national primary drinking water regulations—
          (i) not later than 1 year after June 19, 1986, for
     not fewer than 9 of the listed contaminants;
          (ii) not later than 2 years after June 19, 1986, for
     not fewer than 40 of the listed contaminants; and
          (iii) not later than 3 years after June 19, 1986, for
     the remainder of the listed contaminants.
     (B) SUBSTITUTION OF CONTAMINANTS.—If the Adminis-
trator identifies a drinking water contaminant the regula-
tion of which, in the judgment of the Administrator, is
more likely to be protective of public health (taking into ac-
count the schedule for regulation under subparagraph (A))
than a contaminant referred to in subparagraph (A), the
Administrator may publish a maximum contaminant level
goal and promulgate a national primary drinking water
regulation for the identified contaminant in lieu of regulat-
ing the contaminant referred to in subparagraph (A). Sub-
stitutions may be made for not more than 7 contaminants
referred to in subparagraph (A). Regulation of a contami-
nant identified under this subparagraph shall be in accord-
ance with the schedule applicable to the contaminant for
which the substitution is made.
     (C) DISINFECTANTS AND DISINFECTION BYPRODUCTS.—
The Administrator shall promulgate an Interim Enhanced
Surface Water Treatment Rule, a Final Enhanced Surface
Water Treatment Rule, a Stage I Disinfectants and Dis-
infection Byproducts Rule, and a Stage II Disinfectants
and Disinfection Byproducts Rule in accordance with the
schedule published in volume 59, Federal Register, page
6361 (February 10, 1994), in table III.13 of the proposed
Information Collection Rule. If a delay occurs with respect
to the promulgation of any rule in the schedule referred to
in this subparagraph, all subsequent rules shall be com-
                              10

    pleted as expeditiously as practicable but no later than a
    revised date that reflects the interval or intervals for the
    rules in the schedule.
    (3) RISK ASSESSMENT, MANAGEMENT, AND COMMUNICA-
TION.—
         (A) USE OF SCIENCE IN DECISIONMAKING.—In carrying
    out this section, and, to the degree that an Agency action
    is based on science, the Administrator shall use—
              (i) the best available, peer-reviewed science and
         supporting studies conducted in accordance with sound
         and objective scientific practices; and
              (ii) data collected by accepted methods or best
         available methods (if the reliability of the method and
         the nature of the decision justifies use of the data).
         (B) PUBLIC INFORMATION.—In carrying out this section,
    the Administrator shall ensure that the presentation of in-
    formation on public health effects is comprehensive, inform-
    ative, and understandable. The Administrator shall, in a
    document made available to the public in support of a reg-
    ulation promulgated under this section, specify, to the ex-
    tent practicable—
              (i) each population addressed by any estimate of
         public health effects;
              (ii) the expected risk or central estimate of risk for
         the specific populations;
              (iii) each appropriate upper-bound or lower-bound
         estimate of risk;
              (iv) each significant uncertainty identified in the
         process of the assessment of public health effects and
         studies that would assist in resolving the uncertainty;
         and
              (v) peer-reviewed studies known to the Adminis-
         trator that support, are directly relevant to, or fail to
         support any estimate of public health effects and the
         methodology used to reconcile inconsistencies in the sci-
         entific data.
         (C) HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST ANALYSIS.—
              (i) MAXIMUM CONTAMINANT LEVELS.—When pro-
         posing any national primary drinking water regulation
         that includes a maximum contaminant level, the Ad-
         ministrator shall, with respect to a maximum contami-
         nant level that is being considered in accordance with
         paragraph (4) and each alternative maximum contami-
         nant level that is being considered pursuant to para-
         graph (5) or (6)(A), publish, seek public comment on,
         and use for the purposes of paragraphs (4), (5), and (6)
         an analysis of each of the following:
                    (I) Quantifiable and nonquantifiable health
              risk reduction benefits for which there is a factual
              basis in the rulemaking record to conclude that
              such benefits are likely to occur as the result of
              treatment to comply with each level.
                    (II) Quantifiable and nonquantifiable health
              risk reduction benefits for which there is a factual
                    11

     basis in the rulemaking record to conclude that
     such benefits are likely to occur from reductions in
     co-occurring contaminants that may be attributed
     solely to compliance with the maximum contami-
     nant level, excluding benefits resulting from com-
     pliance with other proposed or promulgated regu-
     lations.
           (III) Quantifiable and nonquantifiable costs
     for which there is a factual basis in the rule-
     making record to conclude that such costs are like-
     ly to occur solely as a result of compliance with the
     maximum contaminant level, including monitor-
     ing, treatment, and other costs and excluding costs
     resulting from compliance with other proposed or
     promulgated regulations.
           (IV) The incremental costs and benefits associ-
     ated with each alternative maximum contaminant
     level considered.
           (V) The effects of the contaminant on the gen-
     eral population and on groups within the general
     population such as infants, children, pregnant
     women, the elderly, individuals with a history of
     serious illness, or other subpopulations that are
     identified as likely to be at greater risk of adverse
     health effects due to exposure to contaminants in
     drinking water than the general population.
           (VI) Any increased health risk that may occur
     as the result of compliance, including risks associ-
     ated with co-occurring contaminants.
           (VII) Other relevant factors, including the
     quality and extent of the information, the uncer-
     tainties in the analysis supporting subclauses (I)
     through (VI), and factors with respect to the degree
     and nature of the risk.
     (ii) TREATMENT TECHNIQUES.—When proposing a
national primary drinking water regulation that in-
cludes a treatment technique in accordance with para-
graph (7)(A), the Administrator shall publish and seek
public comment on an analysis of the health risk re-
duction benefits and costs likely to be experienced as
the result of compliance with the treatment technique
and alternative treatment techniques that are being
considered, taking into account, as appropriate, the
factors described in clause (i).
     (iii) APPROACHES TO MEASURE AND VALUE BENE-
FITS.—The Administrator may identify valid ap-
proaches for the measurement and valuation of benefits
under this subparagraph, including approaches to
identify consumer willingness to pay for reductions in
health risks from drinking water contaminants.
     (iv) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Administrator, acting through the
Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water, to con-
duct studies, assessments, and analyses in support of
                        12

     regulations or the development of methods, $35,000,000
     for each of fiscal years 1996 through 2003.
ø(4) Each¿ (4) GOALS AND STANDARDS.—
     (A) MAXIMUM CONTAMINANT LEVEL GOALS.—Each max-
imum contaminant level goal established under this sub-
section shall be set at the level at which no known or an-
ticipated adverse effects on the health of persons occur and
which allows an adequate margin of safety.
     øEach national¿ (B) MAXIMUM CONTAMINANT LEV-
ELS.—Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (6), each
national primary drinking water regulation for a contami-
nant for which a ømaximum level¿ maximum contaminant
level goal is established under this subsection shall specify
a ømaximum level¿ maximum contaminant level for such
contaminant which is as close to the maximum contami-
nant level goal as is feasible.
     (C) DETERMINATION.—At the time the Administrator
proposes a national primary drinking water regulation
under this paragraph, the Administrator shall publish a
determination as to whether the benefits of the maximum
contaminant level justify, or do not justify, the costs based
on the analysis conducted under paragraph (3)(C).
     ø(5) For the¿ (D) DEFINITION OF FEASIBLE.—For the
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘feasible’’ means fea-
sible with the use of the best technology, treatment tech-
niques and other means which the Administrator finds,
after examination for efficacy under field conditions and
not solely under laboratory conditions, are available (tak-
ing cost into consideration). For the purpose of øparagraph
4¿ this paragraph, granular activated carbon is feasible for
the control of synthetic organic chemicals, and any tech-
nology, treatment technique, or other means found to be
the best available for the control of synthetic organic
chemicals must be at least as effective in controlling syn-
thetic organic chemicals as granular activated carbon.
     ø(6) Each national¿ (E) FEASIBLE TECHNOLOGIES.—
          (i) IN GENERAL.—Each national primary drinking
     water regulation which establishes a maximum con-
     taminant level shall list the technology, treatment
     techniques, and other means which the Administrator
     finds to be feasible for purposes of meeting such maxi-
     mum contaminant level, but a regulation under øthis
     paragraph¿ this subsection shall not require that any
     specified technology, treatment technique, or other
     means be used for purposes of meeting such maximum
     contaminant level.
          (ii) LIST OF TECHNOLOGIES FOR SMALL SYSTEMS.—
     The Administrator shall include in the list any tech-
     nology, treatment technique, or other means that is af-
     fordable, as determined by the Administrator in con-
     sultation with the States, for small public water sys-
     tems serving—
               (I) a population of 10,000 or fewer but more
          than 3,300;
                     13

           (II) a population of 3,300 or fewer but more
     than 500; and
           (III) a population of 500 or fewer but more
     than 25;
and that achieves compliance with the maximum con-
taminant level or treatment technique, including
packaged or modular systems and point-of-entry or
point-of-use treatment units. Point-of-entry and point-
of-use treatment units shall be owned, controlled and
maintained by the public water system or by a person
under contract with the public water system to ensure
proper operation and maintenance and compliance
with the maximum contaminant level or treatment
technique and equipped with mechanical warnings to
ensure that customers are automatically notified of
operational problems. The Administrator shall not in-
clude in the list any point-of-use treatment technology,
treatment technique, or other means to achieve compli-
ance with a maximum contaminant level or treatment
technique requirement for a microbial contaminant (or
an indicator of a microbial contaminant). If the Amer-
ican National Standards Institute has issued product
standards applicable to a specific type of point-of-entry
or point-of-use treatment unit, individual units of that
type shall not be accepted for compliance with a maxi-
mum contaminant level or treatment technique require-
ment unless they are independently certified in accord-
ance with such standards. In listing any technology,
treatment technique, or other means pursuant to this
clause, the Administrator shall consider the quality of
the source water to be treated.
     (iii) LIST OF TECHNOLOGIES THAT ACHIEVE COMPLI-
ANCE.—Except as provided in clause (v), not later than
2 years after the date of enactment of this clause and
after consultation with the States, the Administrator
shall issue a list of technologies that achieve compli-
ance with the maximum contaminant level or treat-
ment technique for each category of public water sys-
tems described in subclauses (I), (II), and (III) of clause
(ii) for each national primary drinking water regula-
tion promulgated prior to the date of enactment of this
paragraph.
     (iv) ADDITIONAL TECHNOLOGIES.—The Adminis-
trator may, at any time after a national primary drink-
ing water regulation has been promulgated, supple-
ment the list of technologies describing additional or
new or innovative treatment technologies that meet the
requirements of this paragraph for categories of small
public water systems described in subclauses (I), (II),
and (III) of clause (ii) that are subject to the regulation.
     (v) TECHNOLOGIES THAT MEET SURFACE WATER
TREATMENT RULE.—Within one year after the date of
enactment of this clause, the Administrator shall list
technologies that meet the Surface Water Treatment
                             14

         Rule for each category of public water systems de-
         scribed in subclauses (I), (II), and (III) of clause (ii).
   (5) ADDITIONAL HEALTH RISK CONSIDERATIONS.—
         (A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (4), the
   Administrator may establish a maximum contaminant
   level for a contaminant at a level other than the feasible
   level, if the technology, treatment techniques, and other
   means used to determine the feasible level would result in
   an increase in the health risk from drinking water by—
              (i) increasing the concentration of other contami-
         nants in drinking water; or
              (ii) interfering with the efficacy of drinking water
         treatment techniques or processes that are used to com-
         ply with other national primary drinking water regula-
         tions.
         (B) ESTABLISHMENT OF LEVEL.—If the Administrator
   establishes a maximum contaminant level or levels or re-
   quires the use of treatment techniques for any contaminant
   or contaminants pursuant to the authority of this
   paragraph—
              (i) the level or levels or treatment techniques shall
         minimize the overall risk of adverse health effects by
         balancing the risk from the contaminant and the risk
         from other contaminants the concentrations of which
         may be affected by the use of a treatment technique or
         process that would be employed to attain the maximum
         contaminant level or levels; and
              (ii) the combination of technology, treatment tech-
         niques, or other means required to meet the level or lev-
         els shall not be more stringent than is feasible (as de-
         fined in paragraph (4)(D)).
   (6) ADDITIONAL HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST CONSID-
ERATIONS.—
         (A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (4), if
   the Administrator determines based on an analysis con-
   ducted under paragraph (3)(C) that the benefits of a maxi-
   mum contaminant level promulgated in accordance with
   paragraph (4) would not justify the costs of complying with
   the level, the Administrator may, after notice and oppor-
   tunity for public comment, promulgate a maximum con-
   taminant level for the contaminant that maximizes health
   risk reduction benefits at a cost that is justified by the bene-
   fits.
         (B) EXCEPTION.—The Administrator shall not use the
   authority of this paragraph to promulgate a maximum con-
   taminant level for a contaminant, if the benefits of compli-
   ance with a national primary drinking water regulation for
   the contaminant that would be promulgated in accordance
   with paragraph (4) experienced by—
              (i) persons served by large public water systems;
         and
              (ii) persons served by such other systems as are un-
         likely, based on information provided by the States, to
                                 15

              receive a variance under section 1415(e) (relating to
              small system variances);
         would justify the costs to the systems of complying with the
         regulation. This subparagraph shall not apply if the con-
         taminant is found almost exclusively in small systems eligi-
         ble under section 1415(e) for a small system variance.
              (C) DISINFECTANTS AND DISINFECTION BYPRODUCTS.—
         The Administrator may not use the authority of this para-
         graph to establish a maximum contaminant level in a
         Stage I or Stage II national primary drinking water regu-
         lation (as described in paragraph (2)(C)) for contaminants
         that are disinfectants or disinfection byproducts, or to es-
         tablish a maximum contaminant level or treatment tech-
         nique requirement for the control of cryptosporidium. The
         authority of this paragraph may be used to establish regu-
         lations for the use of disinfection by systems relying on
         ground water sources as required by paragraph (8).
              (D) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—A determination by the Admin-
         istrator that the benefits of a maximum contaminant level
         or treatment requirement justify or do not justify the costs
         of complying with the level shall be reviewed by the court
         pursuant to section 1448 only as part of a review of a final
         national primary drinking water regulation that has been
         promulgated based on the determination and shall not be
         set aside by the court under that section unless the court
         finds that the determination is arbitrary and capricious.
    (7)(A) The Administrator is authorized to promulgate a na-
tional primary drinking water regulation that requires the use of
a treatment technique in lieu of establishing a maximum contami-
nant level, if the Administrator makes a finding that it is not eco-
nomically or technologically feasible to ascertain the level of the
contaminant. In such case, the Administrator shall identify those
treatment techniques which, in the Administrator’s judgment,
would prevent known or anticipated adverse effects on the health
of persons to the extent feasible. Such regulations shall specify
each treatment technique known to the Administrator which meets
the requirements of this paragraph, but the Administrator may
grant a variance from any specified treatment technique in accord-
ance with section 1415(a)(3).
    (B) Any schedule referred to in this subsection for the promul-
gation of a national primary drinking water regulation for any con-
taminant shall apply in the same manner if the regulation requires
a treatment technique in lieu of establishing a maximum contami-
nant level.
    (C)(i) Not later than 18 months after the enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, the Administrator shall
propose and promulgate national primary drinking water regula-
tions specifying criteria under which filtration (including coagula-
tion and sedimentation, as appropriate) is required as a treatment
technique for public water systems supplied by surface water
sources. In promulgating such rules, the Administrator shall con-
sider the quality of source waters, protection afforded by watershed
management, treatment practices (such as disinfection and length
of water storage) and other factors relevant to protection of health.
                                 16

     (ii) In lieu of the provisions of section 1415 the Administrator
shall specify procedures by which the State determines which pub-
lic water systems within its jurisdiction shall adopt filtration under
the criteria of clause (i). The State may require the public water
system to provide studies or other information to assist in this de-
termination. The procedures shall provide notice and opportunity
for public hearing on this determination. If the State determines
that filtration is required, the State shall prescribe a schedule for
compliance by the public water system with the filtration require-
ment. A schedule shall require compliance within 18 months of a
determination made under clause (iii).
     (iii) Within 18 months from the time that the Administrator
establishes the criteria and procedures under this subparagraph, a
State with primary enforcement responsibility shall adopt any nec-
essary regulations to implement this subparagraph. Within 12
months of adoption of such regulations the State shall make deter-
minations regarding filtration for all the public water systems
within its jurisdiction supplied by surface waters.
     (iv) If a State does not have primary enforcement responsibility
for public water systems, the Administrator shall have the same
authority to make the determination in clause (ii) in such State as
the State would have under that clause. Any filtration requirement
or schedule under this subparagraph shall be treated as if it were
a requirement of a national primary drinking water regulation.
     (v) As an additional alternative to the regulations promulgated
pursuant to clauses (i) and (iii), including the criteria for avoiding
filtration contained in 40 CFR 141.71, a State exercising primary
enforcement responsibility for public water systems may, on a case-
by-case basis, and after notice and opportunity for public comment,
establish treatment requirements as an alternative to filtration in
the case of systems having uninhabited, undeveloped watersheds in
consolidated ownership, and having control over access to, and ac-
tivities in, those watersheds, if the State determines (and the Ad-
ministrator concurs) that the quality of the source water and the al-
ternative treatment requirements established by the State ensure
greater removal or inactivation efficiencies of pathogenic organisms
for which national primary drinking water regulations have been
promulgated or that are of public health concern than would be
achieved by the combination of filtration and chlorine disinfection
(in compliance with this section).
           ø(8) Not later than 36 months after the enactment of the
     Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, the Adminis-
     trator shall propose and promulgate¿ DISINFECTION.—At any
     time after the end of the 3-year period that begins on the date
     of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
     1996, but not later than the date on which the Administrator
     promulgates a Stage II rulemaking for disinfectants and dis-
     infection byproducts (as described in paragraph (2)(C)), the Ad-
     ministrator shall also promulgate national primary drinking
     water regulations requiring disinfection as a treatment tech-
     nique for all public water systems, including surface water sys-
     tems and, as necessary, ground water systems. After consulta-
     tion with the States, the Administrator shall (as part of the
     regulations) promulgate criteria that the Administrator, or a
                             17

State that has primary enforcement responsibility under sec-
tion 1413, shall apply to determine whether disinfection shall
be required as a treatment technique for any public water sys-
tem served by ground water. The Administrator shall simulta-
neously promulgate a rule specifying criteria that will be used
by the Administrator (or delegated State authorities) to grant
variances from this requirement according to the provisions of
sections 1415(a)(1)(B) and 1415(a)(3). In implementing section
ø1442(g)¿ 1442(e) the Administrator or the delegated State au-
thority shall, where appropriate, give special consideration to
providing technical assistance to small public water systems in
complying with the regulations promulgated under this para-
graph.
     ø(9) National primary drinking water regulations shall be
amended whenever changes in technology, treatment tech-
niques, and other means permit greater protection of the
health of persons, but in any event such regulations shall be
reviewed at least once every 3 years. Such review shall include
an analysis of innovations or changes in technology, treatment
techniques or other activities that have occurred over the pre-
vious 3-year period and that may Drovide for greater protec-
tion of the health of Dersons. The findings of such review shall
be published in the Federal Register. If, after opportunity for
public comment, the Administrator concludes that the tech-
nology, treatment techniques, or other means resulting from
such innovations or changes are not feasible within the mean-
ing of Daraaraph (5), an explanation of such conclusion shall
be pubished in the Federal Register.¿
     (9) REVIEW AND REVISION.—The Administrator shall, not
less often than every 6 years, review and revise, as appropriate,
each national primary drinking water regulation promulgated
under this title. Any revision of a national primary drinking
water regulation shall be promulgated in accordance with this
section, except that each revision shall maintain, or provide for
greater, protection of the health of persons.
     øNational primary drinking water regulations promul-
gated under this subsection (and amendments thereto) shall
take effect eighteen months after the date of their promulga-
tion. Regulations under subsection (a) shall be superseded by
regulations under this subsection to the extent provided by the
regulations under this subsection.¿
     (10) EFFECTIVE DATE.—A national primary drinking water
regulation promulgated under this section (and any amendment
thereto) shall take effect on the date that is 3 years after the
date on which the regulation is promulgated unless the Admin-
istrator determines that an earlier date is practicable, except
that the Administrator, or a State (in the case of an individual
system), may allow up to 2 additional years to comply with a
maximum contaminant level or treatment technique if the Ad-
ministrator or State (in the case of an individual system) deter-
mines that additional time is necessary for capital improve-
ments.
                             18

    (11) No national primary drinking water regulation may
require the addition of any substance for preventive health care
purposes unrelated to contamination of drinking water.
    (12) CERTAIN CONTAMINANTS.—
         (A) ARSENIC.—
              (i) SCHEDULE AND STANDARD.—Notwithstanding
         the deadlines set forth in paragraph (1), the Adminis-
         trator shall promulgate a national primary drinking
         water regulation for arsenic pursuant to this sub-
         section, in accordance with the schedule established by
         this paragraph.
              (ii) STUDY PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after
         the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Adminis-
         trator shall develop a comprehensive plan for study in
         support of drinking water rulemaking to reduce the un-
         certainty in assessing health risks associated with ex-
         posure to low levels of arsenic. In conducting such
         study, the Administrator shall consult with the Na-
         tional Academy of Sciences, other Federal agencies,
         and interested public and private entities.
              (iii) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—In carrying out
         the study plan, the Administrator may enter into coop-
         erative agreements with other Federal agencies, State
         and local governments, and other interested public and
         private entities.
              (iv) PROPOSED REGULATIONS.—The Administrator
         shall propose a national primary drinking water regu-
         lation for arsenic not later than January 1, 2000.
              (v) FINAL REGULATIONS.—Not later than January
         1, 2001, after notice and opportunity for public com-
         ment, the Administrator shall promulgate a national
         primary drinking water regulation for arsenic.
              (vi) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be
         appropriated $2,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1997
         through 2000 for the studies required by this para-
         graph.
         (B) SULFATE.—
              (i) ADDITIONAL STUDY.—Prior to promulgating a
         national primary drinking water regulation for sulfate,
         the Administrator and the Director of the Centers for
         Disease Control and Prevention shall jointly conduct
         an additional study to establish a reliable dose-re-
         sponse relationship for the adverse human health ef-
         fects that may result from exposure to sulfate in drink-
         ing water, including the health effects that may be ex-
         perienced by groups within the general population (in-
         cluding infants and travelers) that are potentially at
         greater risk of adverse health effects as the result of
         such exposure. The study shall be conducted in con-
         sultation with interested States, shall be based on the
         best available, peer-reviewed science and supporting
         studies conducted in accordance with sound and objec-
         tive scientific practices, and shall be completed not
                        19

     later than 30 months after the date of enactment of the
     Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996.
     (ii) DETERMINATION.—The Administrator shall include
sulfate among the 5 or more contaminants for which a de-
termination is made pursuant to paragraph (3)(B) not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act Amendments of 1996.
     (iii) PROPOSED AND FINAL RULE.—Notwithstanding the
deadlines set forth in paragraph (2), the Administrator
may, pursuant to the authorities of this subsection and
after notice and opportunity for public comment, promul-
gate a final national primary drinking water regulation for
sulfate. Any such regulation shall include requirements for
public notification and options for the provision of alter-
native water supplies to populations at risk as a means of
complying with the regulation in lieu of a best available
treatment technology or other means.
(13) RADON IN DRINKING WATER.—
     (A) NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULA-
TION.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Administrator
shall withdraw any national primary drinking water regu-
lation for radon proposed prior to the date of enactment of
this paragraph and shall propose and promulgate a regula-
tion for radon under this section, as amended by the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996.
     (B) RISK ASSESSMENT AND STUDIES.—
           (i) ASSESSMENT BY NAS.—Prior to proposing a na-
     tional primary drinking water regulation for radon,
     the Administrator shall arrange for the National Acad-
     emy of Sciences to prepare a risk assessment for radon
     in drinking water using the best available science in
     accordance with the requirements of paragraph (3).
     The risk assessment shall consider each of the risks as-
     sociated with exposure to radon from drinking water
     and consider studies on the health effects of radon at
     levels and under conditions likely to be experienced
     through residential exposure. The risk assessment shall
     be peer-reviewed.
           (ii) STUDY OF OTHER MEASURES.—The Adminis-
     trator shall arrange for the National Academy of
     Sciences to prepare an assessment of the health risk re-
     duction benefits associated with various mitigation
     measures to reduce radon levels in indoor air. The as-
     sessment may be conducted as part of the risk assess-
     ment authorized by clause (i) and shall be used by the
     Administrator to prepare the guidance and approve
     State programs under subparagraph (G).
           (iii) OTHER ORGANIZATION.—If the National Acad-
     emy of Sciences declines to prepare the risk assessment
     or studies required by this subparagraph, the Adminis-
     trator shall enter into a contract or cooperative agree-
     ment with another independent, scientific organization
     to prepare such assessments or studies.
                        20

     (C) HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST ANALYSIS.—Not
later than 30 months after the date of enactment of this
paragraph, the Administrator shall publish, and seek pub-
lic comment on, a health risk reduction and cost analysis
meeting the requirements of paragraph (3)(C) for potential
maximum contaminant levels that are being considered for
radon in drinking water. The Administrator shall include
a response to all significant public comments received on
the analysis with the preamble for the proposed rule pub-
lished under subparagraph (D).
     (D) PROPOSED REGULATION.—Not later than 36 months
after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Adminis-
trator shall propose a maximum contaminant level goal
and a national primary drinking water regulation for
radon pursuant to this section.
     (E) FINAL REGULATION.—Not later than 12 months
after the date of the proposal under subparagraph (D), the
Administrator shall publish a maximum contaminant level
goal and promulgate a national primary drinking water
regulation for radon pursuant to this section based on the
risk assessment prepared pursuant to subparagraph (B)
and the health risk reduction and cost analysis published
pursuant to subparagraph (C). In considering the risk as-
sessment and the health risk reduction and cost analysis in
connection with the promulgation of such a standard, the
Administrator shall take into account the costs and benefits
of control programs for radon from other sources.
     (F) ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM CONTAMINANT LEVEL.—If
the maximum contaminant level for radon in drinking
water promulgated pursuant to subparagraph (E) is more
stringent than necessary to reduce the contribution to radon
in indoor air from drinking water to a concentration that
is equivalent to the national average concentration of radon
in outdoor air, the Administrator shall, simultaneously
with the promulgation of such level, promulgate an alter-
native maximum contaminant level for radon that would
result in a contribution of radon from drinking water to
radon levels in indoor air equivalent to the national aver-
age concentration of radon in outdoor air. If the Adminis-
trator promulgates an alternative maximum contaminant
level under this subparagraph, the Administrator shall,
after notice and opportunity for public comment and in
consultation with the States, publish guidelines for State
programs, including criteria for multimedia measures to
mitigate radon levels in indoor air, to be used by the States
in preparing programs under subparagraph (G). The guide-
lines shall take into account data from existing radon miti-
gation programs and the assessment of mitigation meas-
ures prepared under subparagraph (B).
     (G) MULTIMEDIA RADON MITIGATION PROGRAMS.—
         (i) IN GENERAL.—A State may develop and submit
     a multimedia program to mitigate radon levels in in-
     door air for approval by the Administrator under this
     subparagraph. If, after notice and the opportunity for
                     21

public comment, such program is approved by the Ad-
ministrator, public water systems in the State may
comply with the alternative maximum contaminant
level promulgated under subparagraph (F) in lieu of
the maximum contaminant level in the national pri-
mary drinking water regulation promulgated under
subparagraph (E).
     (ii) ELEMENTS OF PROGRAMS.—State programs
may rely on a variety of mitigation measures including
public education, testing, training, technical assistance,
remediation grant and loan or incentive programs, or
other regulatory or nonregulatory measures. The effec-
tiveness of elements in State programs shall be evalu-
ated by the Administrator based on the assessment pre-
pared by the National Academy of Sciences under sub-
paragraph (B) and the guidelines published by the Ad-
ministrator under subparagraph (F).
     (iii) APPROVAL.—The Administrator shall approve
a State program submitted under this paragraph if the
health risk reduction benefits expected to be achieved
by the program are equal to or greater than the health
risk reduction benefits that would be achieved if each
public water system in the State complied with the
maximum contaminant level promulgated under sub-
paragraph (E). The Administrator shall approve or dis-
approve a program submitted under this paragraph
within 180 days of receipt. A program that is not dis-
approved during such period shall be deemed ap-
proved. A program that is disapproved may be modi-
fied to address the objections of the Administrator and
be resubmitted for approval.
     (iv) REVIEW.—The Administrator shall periodi-
cally, but not less often than every 5 years, review each
multimedia mitigation program approved under this
subparagraph to determine whether it continues to
meet the requirements of clause (iii) and shall, after
written notice to the State and an opportunity for the
State to correct any deficiency in the program, with-
draw approval of programs that no longer comply with
such requirements.
     (v) EXTENSION.—If, within 90 days after the pro-
mulgation of an alternative maximum contaminant
level under subparagraph (F), the Governor of a State
submits a letter to the Administrator committing to de-
velop a multimedia mitigation program under this sub-
paragraph, the effective date of the national primary
drinking water regulation for radon in the State that
would be applicable under paragraph (10) shall be ex-
tended for a period of 18 months.
     (vi) LOCAL PROGRAMS.—In the event that a State
chooses not to submit a multimedia mitigation pro-
gram for approval under this subparagraph or has
submitted a program that has been disapproved, any
public water system in the State may submit a pro-
                             22

          gram for approval by the Administrator according to
          the same criteria, conditions, and approval process that
          would apply to a State program. The Administrator
          shall approve a multimedia mitigation program if the
          health risk reduction benefits expected to be achieved
          by the program are equal to or greater than the health
          risk reduction benefits that would result from compli-
          ance by the public water system with the maximum
          contaminant level for radon promulgated under sub-
          paragraph (E).
     (14) RECYCLING OF FILTER BACKWASH.—The Administrator
shall promulgate a regulation to govern the recycling of filter
backwash water within the treatment process of a public water
system. The Administrator shall promulgate such regulation
not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 unless such recycling
has been addressed by the Administrator’s Enhanced Surface
Water Treatment Rule prior to such date.
     (15) VARIANCE TECHNOLOGIES.—
          (A) IN GENERAL.—At the same time as the Adminis-
     trator promulgates a national primary drinking water reg-
     ulation for a contaminant pursuant to this section, the Ad-
     ministrator shall issue guidance or regulations describing
     the best treatment technologies, treatment techniques, or
     other means (referred to in this paragraph as ‘‘variance
     technology’’) for the contaminant that the Administrator
     finds, after examination for efficacy under field conditions
     and not solely under laboratory conditions, are available
     and affordable, as determined by the Administrator in con-
     sultation with the States, for public water systems of vary-
     ing size, considering the quality of the source water to be
     treated. The Administrator shall identify such variance
     technologies for public water systems serving—
               (i) a population of 10,000 or fewer but more than
          3,300;
               (ii) a population of 3,300 or fewer but more than
          500; and
               (iii) a population of 500 or fewer but more than 25,
     if, considering the quality of the source water to be treated,
     no treatment technology is listed for public water systems
     of that size under paragraph (4)(E). Variance technologies
     identified by the Administrator pursuant to this paragraph
     may not achieve compliance with the maximum contami-
     nant level or treatment technique requirement of such regu-
     lation, but shall achieve the maximum reduction or inac-
     tivation efficiency that is affordable considering the size of
     the system and the quality of the source water. The guid-
     ance or regulations shall not require the use of a technology
     from a specific manufacturer or brand.
          (B) LIMITATION.—The Administrator shall not identify
     any variance technology under this paragraph, unless the
     Administrator has determined, considering the quality of
     the source water to be treated and the expected useful life
                                  23

          of the technology, that the variance technology is protective
          of public health.
               (C) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—The Administrator
          shall include in the guidance or regulations identifying
          variance technologies under this paragraph any assump-
          tions supporting the public health determination referred to
          in subparagraph (B), where such assumptions concern the
          public water system to which the technology may be ap-
          plied, or its source waters. The Administrator shall provide
          any assumptions used in determining affordability, taking
          into consideration the number of persons served by such
          systems. The Administrator shall provide as much reliable
          information as practicable on performance, effectiveness,
          limitations, costs, and other relevant factors including the
          applicability of variance technology to waters from surface
          and underground sources.
               (D) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—Not later than 2
          years after the date of enactment of this paragraph and
          after consultation with the States, the Administrator shall
          issue guidance or regulations under subparagraph (A) for
          each national primary drinking water regulation promul-
          gated prior to the date of enactment of this paragraph for
          which a variance may be granted under section 1415(e).
          The Administrator may, at any time after a national pri-
          mary drinking water regulation has been promulgated,
          issue guidance or regulations describing additional vari-
          ance technologies. The Administrator shall, not less often
          than every 7 years, or upon receipt of a petition supported
          by substantial information, review variance technologies
          identified under this paragraph. The Administrator shall
          issue revised guidance or regulations if new or innovative
          variance technologies become available that meet the re-
          quirements of this paragraph and achieve an equal or
          greater reduction or inactivation efficiency than the vari-
          ance technologies previously identified under this subpara-
          graph. No public water system shall be required to replace
          a variance technology during the useful life of the tech-
          nology for the sole reason that a more efficient variance
          technology has been listed under this subparagraph.
     (c) The Administrator shall publish proposed national second-
ary drinking water regulations within 270 days after the date of
enactment of this title. Within 90 days after publication of any
such regulation, he shall promulgate such regulation with such
modifications as he deems appropriate. Regulations under this sub-
section may be amended from time to time.
     (d) Regulations under this section shall be prescribed in ac-
cordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code (relating
to rulemaking), except that the Administrator shall provide oppor-
tunity for public hearing prior to promulgation of such regulations.
In proposing and promulgating regulations under this section, the
Administrator shall consult with the Secretary and the National
Drinking Water Advisory Council.
     (e) The Administrator shall request comments from the Science
Advisory Board (established under the Environmental Research,
                                 24

Development, and Demonstration Act of 1978) prior to proposal of
a maximum contaminant level goal and national primary drinking
water regulation. The Board shall respond, as it deems appro-
priate, within the time period applicable for promulgation of the
national primary drinking water standard concerned. This sub-
section shall, under no circumstances, be used to delay final pro-
mulgation of any national primary drinking water standard.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–1]

             STATE PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

    SEC. 1413. (a) For purposes of this title, a State has primary
enforcement responsibility for public water systems during any pe-
riod for which the Administrator determines (pursuant to regula-
tions prescribed under subsection (b)) that such State—
         ø(1) has adopted drinking water regulations which are no
    less stringent than the national primary drinking water regu-
    lations in effect under such section 1412(a) and 1412(b);¿
         (1) has adopted drinking water regulations that are no less
    stringent than the national primary drinking water regulations
    promulgated by the Administrator under subsections (a) and (b)
    of section 1412 not later than 2 years after the date on which
    the regulations are promulgated by the Administrator, except
    that the Administrator may provide for an extension of not
    more than 2 years if, after submission and review of appro-
    priate, adequate documentation from the State, the Adminis-
    trator determines that the extension is necessary and justified;
         (2) has adopted and is implementing adequate procedures
    for the enforcement of such State regulations, including con-
    ducting such monitoring and making such inspections as the
    Administrator may require by regulation;
         (3) will keep such records and make such reports with re-
    spect to its activities under paragraphs (1) and (2) as the Ad-
    ministrator may require by regulation;
         (4) if it permits variances or exemptions, or both, from the
    requirements of its drinking water regulations which meet the
    requirements of paragraph (1), permits such variances and ex-
    emptions under conditions and in a manner which is not less
    stringent than the conditions under, and the manner in, which
    variances and exemptions may be granted under sections 1415
    and 1416; øand¿
         (5) has adopted and can implement an adequate plan for
    the provision of safe drinking water under emergency cir-
    cumstances including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and
    other natural disasters, as appropriateƒ.≈; and
         (6) has adopted authority for administrative penalties (un-
    less the constitution of the State prohibits the adoption of the
    authority) in a maximum amount—
              (A) in the case of a system serving a population of more
         than 10,000, that is not less than $1,000 per day per viola-
         tion; and
              (B) in the case of any other system, that is adequate to
         ensure compliance (as determined by the State);
                                25

     except that a State may establish a maximum limitation on the
     total amount of administrative penalties that may be imposed
     on a public water system per violation.
     (b)(1) The Administrator shall, by regulation (proposed within
180 days of the date of the enactment of this title), prescribe the
manner in which a State may apply to the Administrator for a de-
termination that the requirements of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and
(4) of subsection (a) are satisfied with respect to the State, the
manner in which the determination is made, the period for which
the determination will be effective, and the manner in which the
Administrator may determine that such requirements are no longer
met. Such regulations shall require that before a determination of
the Administrator that such requirements are met or are no longer
met with respect to a State may become effective, the Adminis-
trator shall notify such State of the determination and the reasons
therefor and shall provide an opportunity for public hearing on the
determination. Such regulations shall be promulgated (with such
modifications as the Administrator deems appropriate) within 90
days of the publication of the proposed regulations in the Federal
Register. The Administrator shall promptly notify in writing the
chief executive officer of each State of the promulgation of regula-
tions under this paragraph. Such notice shall contain a copy of the
regulations and shall specify a State’s authority under this title
when it is determined to have primary enforcement responsibility
for public water systems.
     (2) When an application is submitted in accordance with the
Administrator’s regulations under paragraph (1), the Administrator
shall within 90 days of the date on which such application is sub-
mitted (A) make the determination applied for, or (B) deny the ap-
plication and notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for his
denial.
     (c) INTERIM PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—A State that
has primary enforcement authority under this section with respect
to each existing national primary drinking water regulation shall be
considered to have primary enforcement authority with respect to
each new or revised national primary drinking water regulation
during the period beginning on the effective date of a regulation
adopted and submitted by the State with respect to the new or re-
vised national primary drinking water regulation in accordance
with subsection (b)(1) and ending at such time as the Administrator
makes a determination under subsection (b)(2)(B) with respect to the
regulation.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–2]

           ENFORCEMENT OF DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS

     SEC. 1414. (a)(1)(A) Whenever the Administrator finds during
a period during which a State has primary enforcement responsibil-
ity for public water systems (within the meaning of section 1413(a))
that any public water system—
         (i) for which a variance under section 1415 or an exemp-
     tion under section 1416 is not in effect, does not comply with
     øany national primary drinking water regulation in effect
     under section 1412¿ any applicable requirement, or
                                  26

          (ii) for which a variance under section 1415 or an exemp-
     tion under section 1416 is in effect, does not comply with any
     schedule or other requirement imposed pursuant thereto,
he shall so notify the State and such public water system and pro-
vide such advice and technical assistance to such State and public
water system as may be appropriate to bring the system into com-
pliance øwith such regulation or requirement¿ with the require-
ment by the earliest feasible time.
     (B) If, beyond the thirtieth day after the Administrator’s notifi-
cation under subparagraph (A), the State has not commenced ap-
propriate enforcement action, the Administrator shall issue an
order under subsection (g) requiring the public water system to
comply with such øregulation or¿ applicable requirement or the
Administrator shall commence a civil action under subsection (b).
          ø(2) Whenever, on the basis of information available to
     him, the Administrator finds during a period during which a
     State does not have primary enforcement responsibility for
     public water systems that a public water system in such
     State—
                ø(A) for which a variance under section 1415(a)(2) or
          an exemption under section 1416(f) is not in effect, does
          not comply with any national primary drinking water reg-
          ulation in effect under section 1412, or
                ø(B) for which a variance under section 1415(a)(2) or
          an exemption under section 1416(f) is in effect, does not
          comply with any schedule or other requirement imposed
          pursuant thereto,
     the Administrator shall issue an order under subsection (g) re-
     quiring the public water system to comply with such regulation
     or requirement or the Administrator shall commence a civil ac-
     tion under subsection (b).¿
          (2) ENFORCEMENT IN NONPRIMACY STATES.—
                (A) IN GENERAL.—If, on the basis of information avail-
          able to the Administrator, the Administrator finds, with re-
          spect to a period in which a State does not have primary
          enforcement responsibility for public water systems, that a
          public water system in the State—
                     (i) for which a variance under section 1415 or an
                exemption under section 1416 is not in effect, does not
                comply with any applicable requirement; or
                     (ii) for which a variance under section 1415 or an
                exemption under section 1416 is in effect, does not com-
                ply with any schedule or other requirement imposed
                pursuant to the variance or exemption;
          the Administrator shall issue an order under subsection (g)
          requiring the public water system to comply with the re-
          quirement, or commence a civil action under subsection (b).
                (B) NOTICE.—If the Administrator takes any action
          pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrator shall notify
          an appropriate local elected official, if any, with jurisdic-
          tion over the public water system of the action prior to the
          time that the action is taken.
     (b) The Administrator may bring a civil action in the appro-
priate United States district court to require compliance with øa
                                 27

national primary drinking water regulation¿ any applicable re-
quirement, with an order issued under subsection (g), or with any
schedule or other requirement imposed pursuant to a variance or
exemption granted under section 1415 or 1416 if—
          (1) authorized under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a),
     or
          (2) if requested by (A) the chief executive officer of the
     State in which is located the public water system which is not
     in compliance with such regulation or requirement, or (B) the
     agency of such State which has jurisdiction over compliance by
     public water systems in the State with national primary drink-
     ing water regulations or State drinking water regulations.
The court may enter, in an action brought under this subsection,
such judgment as protection of public health may require, taking
into consideration the time necessary to comply and the availability
of alternative water supplies; and, if the court determines that
there has been a violation of the regulation or schedule or other re-
quirement with respect to which the action was brought, the court
may, taking into account the seriousness of the violation, the popu-
lation at risk, and other appropriate factors, impose on the violator
a civil penalty of not to exceed $25,000 for each day in which such
violation occurs.
     ø(c) Each owner or operator of a public water system shall give
notice to the persons served by it—
     ø(1) of any failure on the part of the public water system to—
          ø(A) comply with an applicable maximum contaminant
     level or treatment technique requirement of, or a testing proce-
     dure prescribed by, a national primary drinking water regula-
     tion, or
          ø(B) perform monitoring required by section 1445(a), and
     ø(2) if the public water system is subject to a variance granted
under section 1415(a)(1)(A) or 1415(a)(2) for an inability to meet a
maximum contaminant level requirement or is subject to an ex-
emption granted under section 1416, of—
          ø(A) the existence of such variance or exemption, and
          ø(B) any failure to comply with the requirements of any
     schedule prescribed pursuant to the variance or exemption.
     øThe Administrator shall by regulation prescribe the form,
manner, and frequency for giving notice under this subsection.
Within 15 months after the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water
Act Amendments of 1986, the Administrator shall amend such reg-
ulations to provide for different types and frequencies of notice
based on the differences between violations which are intermittent
or infrequent and violations which are continuous or frequent. Such
regulations shall also take into account the seriousness of any po-
tential adverse health effects which may be involved. Notice of any
violation of a maximum contaminant level or any other violation
designated by the Administrator as posing a serious potential ad-
verse health effect shall be given as soon as possible, but in no case
later than 14 days after the violation. Notice of a continuous viola-
tion of a regulation other than a maximum contaminant level shall
be given no less frequently than every 3 months. Notice of viola-
tions judged to be less serious shall be given no less frequently
than annually. The Administrator shall specify the types of notice
                                   28

to be used to provide information as promptly and effectively as
possible taking into account both the seriousness of any potential
adverse health effects and the likelihood of reaching all affected
persons. Notification of violations shall include notice by general
circulation newspaper serving the area and, whenever appropriate,
shall also include a press release to electronic media and individual
mailings. Notice under this subsection shall provide a clear and
readily understandable explanation of the violation, any potential
adverse health effects, the steps that the system is taking to cor-
rect such violation and the necessity for seeking alternative water
supplies, if any until the violation is corrected. Until such amended
regulations are promulgated, the regulations in effect on the date
of the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
1986 shall remain in effect. The Administrator may also require
the owner or operator of a public water system to give notice to the
persons served by it of contaminant levels of any unregulated con-
taminant required to be monitored under section 1445(a). Any per-
son who violates this subsection or regulations issued under this
subsection shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed
$25,000.¿
     (c) NOTICE TO PERSONS SERVED.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Each owner or operator of a public water
     system shall give notice of each of the following to the persons
     served by the system:
               (A) Notice of any failure on the part of the public water
          system to—
                    (i) comply with an applicable maximum contami-
               nant level or treatment technique requirement of, or a
               testing procedure prescribed by, a national primary
               drinking water regulation; or
                    (ii) perform monitoring required by section
               1445(a).
               (B) If the public water system is subject to a variance
          granted under subsection (a)(1)(A), (a)(2), or (e) of section
          1415 for an inability to meet a maximum contaminant level
          requirement or is subject to an exemption granted under
          section 1416, notice of—
                    (i) the existence of the variance or exemption; and
                    (ii) any failure to comply with the requirements of
               any schedule prescribed pursuant to the variance or ex-
               emption.
               (C) Notice of the concentration level of any unregulated
          contaminant for which the Administrator has required pub-
          lic notice pursuant to paragraph (2)(E).
          (2) FORM, MANNER, AND FREQUENCY OF NOTICE.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall, by regula-
          tion, and after consultation with the States, prescribe the
          manner, frequency, form, and content for giving notice
          under this subsection. The regulations shall—
                    (i) provide for different frequencies of notice based
               on the differences between violations that are intermit-
               tent or infrequent and violations that are continuous or
               frequent; and
                          29

          (ii) take into account the seriousness of any poten-
     tial adverse health effects that may be involved.
     (B) STATE REQUIREMENTS.—
          (i) IN GENERAL.—A State may, by rule, establish
     alternative notification requirements—
                (I) with respect to the form and content of no-
          tice given under and in a manner in accordance
          with subparagraph (C); and
                (II) with respect to the form and content of no-
          tice given under subparagraph (D).
          (ii) CONTENTS.—The alternative requirements
     shall provide the same type and amount of information
     as required pursuant to this subsection and regulations
     issued under subparagraph (A).
          (iii) RELATIONSHIP TO SECTION 1413.—Nothing in
     this subparagraph shall be construed or applied to
     modify the requirements of section 1413.
     (C) VIOLATIONS WITH POTENTIAL TO HAVE SERIOUS AD-
VERSE EFFECTS ON HUMAN HEALTH.—Regulations issued
under subparagraph (A) shall specify notification proce-
dures for each violation by a public water system that has
the potential to have serious adverse effects on human
health as a result of short-term exposure. Each notice of
violation provided under this subparagraph shall—
          (i) be distributed as soon as practicable after the
     occurrence of the violation, but not later than 24 hours
     after the occurrence of the violation;
          (ii) provide a clear and readily understandable ex-
     planation of—
                (I) the violation;
                (II) the potential adverse effects on human
          health;
                (III) the steps that the public water system is
          taking to correct the violation; and
                (IV) the necessity of seeking alternative water
          supplies until the violation is corrected;
          (iii) be provided to the Administrator or the head
     of the State agency that has primary enforcement re-
     sponsibility under section 1413 as soon as practicable,
     but not later than 24 hours after the occurrence of the
     violation; and
          (iv) as required by the State agency in general reg-
     ulations of the State agency, or on a case-by-case basis
     after the consultation referred to in clause (iii), consid-
     ering the health risks involved—
                (I) be provided to appropriate broadcast
          media;
                (II) be prominently published in a newspaper
          of general circulation serving the area not later
          than 1 day after distribution of a notice pursuant
          to clause (i) or the date of publication of the next
          issue of the newspaper; or
                         30

               (III) be provided by posting or door-to-door no-
          tification in lieu of notification by means of broad-
          cast media or newspaper.
     (D) WRITTEN NOTICE.—
          (i) IN GENERAL.—Regulations issued under sub-
     paragraph (A) shall specify notification procedures for
     violations other than the violations covered by subpara-
     graph (C). The procedures shall specify that a public
     water system shall provide written notice to each per-
     son served by the system by notice (I) in the first bill
     (if any) prepared after the date of occurrence of the vio-
     lation, (II) in an annual report issued not later than 1
     year after the date of occurrence of the violation, or
     (III) by mail or direct delivery as soon as practicable,
     but not later than 1 year after the date of occurrence
     of the violation.
          (ii) FORM AND MANNER OF NOTICE.—The Adminis-
     trator shall prescribe the form and manner of the no-
     tice to provide a clear and readily understandable ex-
     planation of the violation, any potential adverse health
     effects, and the steps that the system is taking to seek
     alternative water supplies, if any, until the violation is
     corrected.
     (E) UNREGULATED CONTAMINANTS.—The Administrator
may require the owner or operator of a public water system
to give notice to the persons served by the system of the con-
centration levels of an unregulated contaminant required to
be monitored under section 1445(a).
(3) REPORTS.—
     (A) ANNUAL REPORT BY STATE.—
          (i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 1998,
     and annually thereafter, each State that has primary
     enforcement responsibility under section 1413 shall
     prepare, make readily available to the public, and sub-
     mit to the Administrator an annual report on viola-
     tions of national primary drinking water regulations
     by public water systems in the State, including viola-
     tions with respect to (I) maximum contaminant levels,
     (II) treatment requirements, (III) variances and exemp-
     tions, and (IV) monitoring requirements determined to
     be significant by the Administrator after consultation
     with the States.
          (ii) DISTRIBUTION.—The State shall publish and
     distribute summaries of the report and indicate where
     the full report is available for review.
     (B) ANNUAL REPORT BY ADMINISTRATOR.—Not later
than July 1, 1998, and annually thereafter, the Adminis-
trator shall prepare and make available to the public an
annual report summarizing and evaluating reports submit-
ted by States pursuant to subparagraph (A) and notices
submitted by public water systems serving Indian Tribes
provided to the Administrator pursuant to subparagraph
(C) or (D) of paragraph (2) and making recommendations
concerning the resources needed to improve compliance
                             31

    with this title. The report shall include information about
    public water system compliance on Indian reservations and
    about enforcement activities undertaken and financial as-
    sistance provided by the Administrator on Indian reserva-
    tions, and shall make specific recommendations concerning
    the resources needed to improve compliance with this title
    on Indian reservations.
    (4) CONSUMER CONFIDENCE REPORTS BY COMMUNITY WATER
SYSTEMS.—
         (A) ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONSUMERS.—The Adminis-
    trator, in consultation with public water systems, environ-
    mental groups, public interest groups, risk communication
    experts, and the States, and other interested parties, shall
    issue regulations within 24 months after the date of enact-
    ment of this paragraph to require each community water
    system to mail to each customer of the system at least once
    annually a report on the level of contaminants in the drink-
    ing water purveyed by that system (referred to in this para-
    graph as a ‘‘consumer confidence report’’). Such regulations
    shall provide a brief and plainly worded definition of the
    terms ‘‘maximum contaminant level goal’’, ‘‘maximum con-
    taminant level’’, ‘‘variances’’, and ‘‘exemptions’’ and brief
    statements in plain language regarding the health concerns
    that resulted in regulation of each regulated contaminant.
    The regulations shall also include a brief and plainly
    worded explanation regarding contaminants that may rea-
    sonably be expected to be present in drinking water, includ-
    ing bottled water. The regulations shall also provide for an
    Environmental Protection Agency toll-free hotline that con-
    sumers can call for more information and explanation.
         (B) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The consumer confidence
    reports under this paragraph shall include, but not be lim-
    ited to, each of the following:
              (i) Information on the source of the water
         purveyed.
              (ii) A brief and plainly worded definition of the
         terms ‘‘maximum contaminant level goal’’, ‘‘maximum
         contaminant level’’, ‘‘variances’’, and ‘‘exemptions’’ as
         provided in the regulations of the Administrator.
              (iii) If any regulated contaminant is detected in the
         water purveyed by the public water system, a statement
         setting forth (I) the maximum contaminant level goal,
         (II) the maximum contaminant level, (III) the level of
         such contaminant in such water system, and (IV) for
         any regulated contaminant for which there has been a
         violation of the maximum contaminant level during the
         year concerned, the brief statement in plain language
         regarding the health concerns that resulted in regula-
         tion of such contaminant, as provided by the Adminis-
         trator in regulations under subparagraph (A).
              (iv) Information on compliance with national pri-
         mary drinking water regulations, as required by the
         Administrator, and notice if the system is operating
                          32

     under a variance or exemption and the basis on which
     the variance or exemption was granted.
           (v) Information on the levels of unregulated con-
     taminants for which monitoring is required under sec-
     tion 1445(a)(2) (including levels of cryptosporidium
     and radon where States determine they may be found).
           (vi) A statement that the presence of contaminants
     in drinking water does not necessarily indicate that the
     drinking water poses a health risk and that more infor-
     mation about contaminants and potential health effects
     can be obtained by calling the Environmental Protec-
     tion Agency hotline.
A public water system may include such additional infor-
mation as it deems appropriate for public education. The
Administrator may, for not more than 3 regulated contami-
nants other than those referred to in subclause (IV) of
clause (iii), require a consumer confidence report under this
paragraph to include the brief statement in plain language
regarding the health concerns that resulted in regulation of
the contaminant or contaminants concerned, as provided by
the Administrator in regulations under subparagraph (A).
     (C) COVERAGE.—The Governor of a State may deter-
mine not to apply the mailing requirement of subparagraph
(A) to a community water system serving fewer than 10,000
persons. Any such system shall—
           (i) inform, in the newspaper notice required by
     clause (iii) or by other means, its customers that the
     system will not be mailing the report as required by
     subparagraph (A);
           (ii) make the consumer confidence report available
     upon request to the public; and
           (iii) publish the report referred to in subparagraph
     (A) annually in one or more local newspapers serving
     the area in which customers of the system are located.
     (D) ALTERNATIVE TO PUBLICATION.—For any commu-
nity water system which, pursuant to subparagraph (C), is
not required to meet the mailing requirement of subpara-
graph (A) and which serves 500 persons or fewer, the com-
munity water system may elect not to comply with clause
(i) or (iii) of subparagraph (C). If the community water sys-
tem so elects, the system shall, at a minimum—
           (i) prepare an annual consumer confidence report
     pursuant to subparagraph (B); and
           (ii) provide notice at least once per year to each of
     its customers by mail, by door-to-door delivery, by post-
     ing or by other means authorized by the regulations of
     the Administrator that the consumer confidence report
     is available upon request.
     (E) ALTERNATIVE FORM AND CONTENT.—A State exer-
cising primary enforcement responsibility may establish, by
rule, after notice and public comment, alternative require-
ments with respect to the form and content of consumer
confidence reports under this paragraph.
                                 33

     (d) Whenever, on the basis of information available to him, the
Administrator finds that within a reasonable time after national
secondary drinking water regulations have been promulgated, one
or more public water systems in a State do not comply with such
secondary regulations, and that such noncompliance appears to re-
sult from a failure of such State to take reasonable action to assure
that public water systems throughout such State meet such second-
ary regulations, he shall so notify the State.
     (e) Nothing in this title shall diminish any authority of a State
or political subdivision to adopt or enforce any law or regulation re-
specting drinking water regulations or public water systems, but no
such law or regulation shall relieve any person of any requirement
otherwise applicable under this title.
     (f) If the Administrator makes a finding of noncompliance (de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1)) with respect
to a public water system in a State which has primary enforcement
responsibility, the Administrator may, for the purpose of assisting
that State in carrying out such responsibility and upon the petition
of such State or public water system or persons served by such sys-
tem, hold, after appropriate notice, public hearings for the purpose
of gathering information from technical or other experts, Federal,
State, or other public officials, representatives of such public water
system, persons served by such system, and other interested per-
sons on—
           (1) the ways in which such system can within the earliest
     feasible time be brought into compliance with the regulation or
     requirement with respect to which such finding was made, and
           (2) the means for the maximum feasible protection of the
     public health during any period in which such system is not in
     compliance with a national primary drinking water regulation
     or requirement applicable to a variance or exemption.
On the basis of such hearings the Administrator shall issue rec-
ommendations which shall be sent to such State and public water
system and shall be made available to the public and communica-
tions media.
     (g)(1) In any case in which the Administrator is authorized to
bring a civil action under this section or under section 1445 with
respect to any øregulation, schedule, or other¿ applicable require-
ment, the Administrator also may issue an order to require compli-
ance with such øregulation, schedule, or other¿ applicable require-
ment.
     (2) An order issued under this subsection shall not take øeffect
until after notice and opportunity for public hearing and,¿ effect, in
the case of a State having primary enforcement responsibility for
public water systems in that State, until after the Administrator
has provided the State with an opportunity to confer with the Ad-
ministrator regarding the øproposed¿ order. A copy of any order is-
sued under this subsection shall be sent to the appropriate State
agency of the State involved if the State has primary enforcement
responsibility for public water systems in that State. Any order
øproposed to be¿ issued under this subsection shall state with rea-
sonable specificity the nature of the violation. In any case in which
an order under this subsection is issued to a corporation, a copy of
such order shall be issued to appropriate corporate officers.
                                 34

     (3)(A) Any person who violates, or fails or refuses to comply
with, an order under this subsection shall be liable to the United
States for a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 per day of viola-
tion.
     ø(B) any failure to comply with the requirements of any sched-
ule prescribed pursuant to the variance or exemption.
     øThe Administrator shall by regulation prescribe the form,
manner, and frequency for giving notice under this subsection.
Within 15 months after the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water
Act Amendments of 1986, the Administrator shall amend such reg-
ulations to provide for different types and frequencies of notice
based on the differences between violations which are intermittent
or infrequent and violations which are continuous or frequent. Such
regulations shall also take into account the seriousness of any po-
tential adverse health effects which may be involved. Notice of any
violation of a maximum contaminant level or any other violation
designated by the Administrator as posing a serious potential ad-
verse health effect shall be given as soon as possible, but in no case
later than 14 days after the violation. Notice of a continuous viola-
tion of a regulation other than a maximum contaminant level shall
be given no less frequently than every 3 months. Notice of viola-
tions judged to be less serious shall be given no less frequently
than annually. The Administrator shall specify the types of notice
to be used to provide information as promptly and effectively as
possible taking into account both the seriousness of any potential
adverse health effects and the likelihood of reaching all affected
persons. Notification of violations shall include notice by general
circulation newspaper serving the area and, whenever appropriate,
shall also include a press release to electronic media and individual
mailings. Notice under this subsection shall provide a clear and
readily understandable explanation of the violation, any potential
adverse health effects, the steps that the system is taking to cor-
rect such violation and the necessity for seeking alternative water
supplies, if any until the violation is corrected. Until such amended
regulations are promulgated, the regulations in effect on the date
of the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
1986 shall remain in effect. The Administrator may also require
the owner or operator of a public water system to give notice to the
persons served by it of contaminant levels of any unregulated con-
taminant required to be monitored under section 1445(a). Any per-
son who violates this subsection or regulations issued under this
subsection shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed
$25,000.¿
     (B) In a case in which a civil penalty sought by the Adminis-
trator under this paragraph does not exceed $5,000, the penalty
shall be assessed by the Administrator after notice and opportunity
for a public hearing (unless the person against whom the penalty
is assessed requests a hearing on the record in accordance with sec-
tion 554 of title 5, United States Code). In a case in which a civil
penalty sought by the Administrator under this paragraph exceeds
$5,000, but does not exceed $25,000, the penalty shall be assessed
by the Administrator after notice and opportunity for a hearing on
the record in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States
Code.
                                  35

     (C) Whenever any civil penalty sought by the Administrator
under this øparagraph exceeds $5,000¿ subsection for a violation of
an applicable requirement exceeds $25,000, the penalty shall be as-
sessed by a civil action brought by the Administrator in the appro-
priate United States district court (as determined under the provi-
sions of title 28 of the United States Code).
     (D) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty
after it has become a final and unappealable order, or after the ap-
propriate court of appeals has entered final judgment in favor of
the Administrator, the Attorney General shall recover the amount
for which such person is liable in any appropriate district court of
the United States. In any such action, the validity and appropriate-
ness of the final order imposing the civil penalty shall not be sub-
ject to review.
     (h) CONSOLIDATION INCENTIVE.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—An owner or operator of a public water
     system may submit to the State in which the system is located
     (if the State has primary enforcement responsibility under sec-
     tion 1413) or to the Administrator (if the State does not have
     primary enforcement responsibility) a plan (including specific
     measures and schedules) for—
               (A) the physical consolidation of the system with 1 or
          more other systems;
               (B) the consolidation of significant management and
          administrative functions of the system with 1 or more other
          systems; or
               (C) the transfer of ownership of the system that may
          reasonably be expected to improve drinking water quality.
          (2) CONSEQUENCES OF APPROVAL.—If the State or the Ad-
     ministrator approves a plan pursuant to paragraph (1), no en-
     forcement action shall be taken pursuant to this part with re-
     spect to a specific violation identified in the approved plan prior
     to the date that is the earlier of the date on which consolidation
     is completed according to the plan or the date that is 2 years
     after the plan is approved.
     (i) DEFINITION OF APPLICABLE REQUIREMENT.—In this section,
the term ‘‘applicable requirement’’ means—
          (1) a requirement of section 1412, 1414, 1415, 1416, 1417,
     1441, or 1445;
          (2) a regulation promulgated pursuant to a section referred
     to in paragraph (1);
          (3) a schedule or requirement imposed pursuant to a section
     referred to in paragraph (1); and
          (4) a requirement of, or permit issued under, an applicable
     State program for which the Administrator has made a deter-
     mination that the requirements of section 1413 have been satis-
     fied, or an applicable State program approved pursuant to this
     part.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–3]
                                36

                            VARIANCES

    SEC. 1415. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this
part, variances from national primary drinking water regulations
may be granted as follows:
         (1)(A) A State which has primary enforcement responsibil-
    ity for public water systems may grant one or more variances
    from an applicable national primary drinking water regulation
    to one or more public water systems within its jurisdiction
    which, because of characteristics of the raw water sources
    which are reasonably available to the systems, cannot meet the
    requirements respecting the maximum contaminant levels of
    such drinking water regulation. A variance may be issued to
    a system on condition that the system install the best tech-
    nology, treatment techniques, or other means, which the Ad-
    ministrator finds are available (taking costs into consider-
    ation), and based upon an evaluation satisfactory to the State
    that indicates that alternative sources of water are not reason-
    ably available to the system. The Administrator shall propose
    and promulgate his finding of the best available technology,
    treatment techniques or other means available for each con-
    taminant for purposes of this subsection at the time he pro-
    poses and promulgates a maximum contaminant level for each
    such contaminant. The Administrator’s finding of best avail-
    able technology, treatment techniques or other means for pur-
    poses of this subsection may vary depending on the number of
    persons served by the system or for other physical conditions
    related to engineering feasibility and costs of compliance with
    maximum contaminant levels as considered approprate by Ad-
    ministrator. Before a State may grant a variance under this
    subparagraph, the State must find that the variance will not
    result in an unreasonable risk to health. If a State grants a
    public water system a variance under this subparagraph, the
    State shall prescribe at the the time the variance is granted,
    a schedule for—
              (i) compliance (including increments of progress) by
         the public water system with each contaminant level re-
         quirement with respect to which the variance was granted,
         and
              (ii) implementation by the public water system of such
         additional control measures as the State may require for
         each contaminant, subject to such contaminant level re-
         quirement, during the period ending on the date compli-
         ance with such requirement is required.
    Before a schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to this sub-
    paragraph may take effect, the State shall provide notice and
    opportunity for a public hearing on the schedule. A notice
    given pursuant to the preceding sentence may cover the pre-
    scribing of more than one such schedule and a hearing held
    pursuant to such notice shall include each of the schedules cov-
    ered by the notice. A schedule prescribed pursuant to this sub-
    paragraph for a public water system granted a variance shall
    require compliance by the system with each contaminant level
    requirement with respect to which the variance was granted as
                             37

expeditiously as practicable (as the State may reasonably de-
termine).
     (B) A State which has primary enforcement responsibility
for public water systems may grant to one or more public
water systems within its jurisdiction one or more variances
from any provision of a national primary drinking water regu-
lation which requires the use of a specified treatment tech-
nique with respect to a contaminant if the public water system
applying for the variance demonstrates to the satisfaction of
the State that such treatment technique is not necessary to
protect the health of persons because of the nature of the raw
water source of such system. A variance granted under this
subparagraph shall be conditioned on such monitoring and
other requirements as the Administrator may prescribe.
     (C) Before a variance proposed to be granted by a State
under subparagraph (A) or (B) may take effect, such State
shall provide notice and opportunity for public hearing on the
proposed variance. A notice given pursuant to the preceding
sentence may cover the granting of more than one variance
and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall include each
of the variances covered by the notice. The State shall prompt-
ly notify the Administrator of all variances granted by it. Such
notification shall contain the reason for the variance (and in
the case of a variance under subparagraph (A), the basis for
the finding required by that subparagraph before the granting
of the variance) and documentation of the need for the vari-
ance.
     (D) Each public water system’s variance granted by a
State under subparagraph (A) shall be conditioned by the State
upon compliance by the public water system with the schedule
prescribed by the State pursuant to that subparagraph. The re-
quirements of each schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to
that subparagraph shall be enforceable by the State under its
laws. Any requirement of a schedule on which a variance
granted under that subparagraph is conditioned may be en-
forced under section 1414 as if such requirement was part of
a national primary drinking water regulation.
     (E) Each schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A) shall be deemed approved by the Administrator
unless the variance for which it was prescribed is revoked by
the Administrator under such subparagraph.
     (F) Not later than 18 months after the effective date of the
interim national primary drinking water regulations the Ad-
ministrator shall complete a comprehensive review of the
variances granted under subparagraph (A) (and schedules pre-
scribed pursuant thereto) and under subparagraph (B) by the
States during the one-year period beginning on such effective
date. The Administrator shall conduct such subsequent reviews
of variances and schedules as he deems necessary to carry out
the purposes of this title, but each subsequent review shall be
completed within each 3-year period following the completion
of the first review under this subparagraph. Before conducting
any review under this subparagraph, the Administrator shall
publish notice of the proposed review in the Federal Register.
                             38

Such notice shall (i) provide information respecting the location
of data and other information respecting the variances to be re-
viewed (including data and other information concerning new
scientific matters bearing on such variances), and (ii) advise of
the opportunity to submit comments on the variances reviewed
and on the need for continuing them. Upon completion of any
such review, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal
Register the results of his review together with findings re-
sponsive to comments submitted in connection with such re-
view.
     (G)(i) If the Administrator finds that a State has, in a sub-
stantial number of instances, abused its discretion in granting
variances under subparagraph (A) or (B) or that in a substan-
tial number of cases the State has failed to prescribe schedules
in accordance with subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall
notify the State of his findings. In determining if a State has
abused its discretion in granting variances in a substantial
number of instances, the Administrator shall consider the
number of persons who are affected by the variances and if the
requirements applicable to the granting of the variances were
complied with. A notice under this clause shall—
           (I) identify each public water system with respect to
     which the finding was made,
           (II) specify the reasons for the finding, and
           (III) as appropriate, propose revocations of specific
     variances or propose revised schedules or other require-
     ments for specific public water systems granted variances,
     or both.
     (ii) The Administrator shall provide reasonable notice and
public hearing on the provisions of each notice given pursuant
to clause (i) of this subparagraph. After a hearing on a notice
pursuant to such clause, the Administrator shall (I) rescind the
finding for which the notice was given and promptly notify the
State of such rescission, or (II) promulgate (with such modifica-
tions as he deems appropriate) such variance revocations and
revised schedules or other requirements proposed in such no-
tice as he deems appropriate. Not later than 180 days after the
date a notice is given pursuant to clause (i) of this subpara-
graph, the Administrator shall complete the hearing on the no-
tice and take the action required by the preceding sentence.
     (iii) If a State is notified under clause (i) of this subpara-
graph of a finding of the Administrator made with respect to
a variance granted a public water system within that State or
to a schedule or other requirement for a variance and if, before
a revocation of such variance or a revision of such schedule or
other requirement promulgated by the Administrator takes ef-
fect, the State takes corrective action with respect to such vari-
ance or schedule or other requirement which the Administrator
determines makes his finding inapplicable to such variance or
schedule or other requirement, the Administrator shall rescind
the application of his finding to that variance or schedule or
other requirement. No variance revocation or revised schedule
or other requirement may take effect before the expiration of
                                 39

    90 days following the date of the notice in which the revocation
    or revised schedule or other requirement was proposed.
         (2) If a State does not have primary enforcement respon-
    sibility for public water systems, the Administrator shall have
    the same authority to grant variances in such State as the
    State would have under paragraph (1) if it had primary en-
    forcement responsibility.
         (3) The Administrator may grant a variance from any
    treatment technique requirement of a national primary drink-
    ing water regulation upon a showing by any person that an al-
    ternative treatment technique not included in such require-
    ment is at least as efficient in lowering the level of the con-
    taminant with respect to which such requirement was pre-
    scribed. A variance under this paragraph shall be conditioned
    on the use of the alternative treatment technique which is the
    basis of the variance.
    (b) Any schedule or other requirement on which a variance
granted under paragraph (1)(B) or (2) of subsection (a) is condi-
tioned may be enforced under section 1414 as if such schedule or
other requirement was part of a national primary drinking water
regulation.
    (c) If an application for a variance under subsection (a) is
made, the State receiving the application or the Administrator, as
the case may be, shall act upon such application within a reason-
able period (as determined under regulations prescribed by the Ad-
ministrator) after the date of its submission.
    (d) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘treatment technique
requirement’’ means a requirement in a national primary drinking
water regulation which specifies for a contaminant (in accordance
with section 1401(1)(C)(ii)) each treatment technique known to the
Administrator which leads to a reduction in the level of such con-
taminant sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 1412(b).
    (e) SMALL SYSTEM VARIANCES.—
         (1) IN GENERAL.—A State exercising primary enforcement
    responsibility for public water systems under section 1413 (or
    the Administrator in nonprimacy States) may grant a variance
    under this subsection for compliance with a requirement speci-
    fying a maximum contaminant level or treatment technique
    contained in a national primary drinking water regulation to—
              (A) public water systems serving 3,300 or fewer per-
         sons; and
              (B) with the approval of the Administrator pursuant to
         paragraph (9), public water systems serving more than
         3,300 persons but fewer than 10,000 persons,
    if the variance meets each requirement of this subsection.
         (2) AVAILABILITY OF VARIANCES.—A public water system
    may receive a variance pursuant to paragraph (1), if—
              (A) the Administrator has identified a variance tech-
         nology under section 1412(b)(15) that is applicable to the
         size and source water quality conditions of the public water
         system;
              (B) the public water system installs, operates, and
         maintains, in accordance with guidance or regulations is-
                             40

     sued by the Administrator, such treatment technology,
     treatment technique, or other means; and
          (C) the State in which the system is located determines
     that the conditions of paragraph (3) are met.
     (3) CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.—A variance
under this subsection shall be available only to a system—
          (A) that cannot afford to comply, in accordance with
     affordability criteria established by the Administrator (or
     the State in the case of a State that has primary enforce-
     ment responsibility under section 1413), with a national
     primary drinking water regulation, including compliance
     through—
               (i) treatment;
               (ii) alternative source of water supply; or
               (iii) restructuring or consolidation (unless the Ad-
          ministrator (or the State in the case of a State that has
          primary enforcement responsibility under section 1413)
          makes a written determination that restructuring or
          consolidation is not practicable); and
          (B) for which the Administrator (or the State in the
     case of a State that has primary enforcement responsibility
     under section 1413) determines that the terms of the vari-
     ance ensure adequate protection of human health, consider-
     ing the quality of the source water for the system and the
     removal efficiencies and expected useful life of the treat-
     ment technology required by the variance.
     (4) COMPLIANCE SCHEDULES.—A variance granted under
this subsection shall require compliance with the conditions of
the variance not later than 3 years after the date on which the
variance is granted, except that the Administrator (or the State
in the case of a State that has primary enforcement responsibil-
ity under section 1413) may allow up to 2 additional years to
comply with a variance technology, secure an alternative source
of water, restructure or consolidate if the Administrator (or the
State) determines that additional time is necessary for capital
improvements, or to allow for financial assistance provided pur-
suant to section 1452 or any other Federal or State program.
     (5) DURATION OF VARIANCES.—The Administrator (or the
State in the case of a State that has primary enforcement re-
sponsibility under section 1413) shall review each variance
granted under this subsection not less often than every 5 years
after the compliance date established in the variance to deter-
mine whether the system remains eligible for the variance and
is conforming to each condition of the variance.
     (6) INELIGIBILITY FOR VARIANCES.—A variance shall not be
available under this subsection for—
          (A) any maximum contaminant level or treatment tech-
     nique for a contaminant with respect to which a national
     primary drinking water regulation was promulgated prior
     to January 1, 1986; or
          (B) a national primary drinking water regulation for a
     microbial contaminant (including a bacterium, virus, or
     other organism) or an indicator or treatment technique for
     a microbial contaminant.
                              41

    (7) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—
         (A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after the date
    of enactment of this subsection and in consultation with the
    States, the Administrator shall promulgate regulations for
    variances to be granted under this subsection. The regula-
    tions shall, at a minimum, specify—
              (i) procedures to be used by the Administrator or
         a State to grant or deny variances, including require-
         ments for notifying the Administrator and consumers
         of the public water system that a variance is proposed
         to be granted (including information regarding the con-
         taminant and variance) and requirements for a public
         hearing on the variance before the variance is granted;
              (ii) requirements for the installation and proper
         operation of variance technology that is identified (pur-
         suant to section 1412(b)(15)) for small systems and the
         financial and technical capability to operate the treat-
         ment system, including operator training and certifi-
         cation;
              (iii) eligibility criteria for a variance for each na-
         tional primary drinking water regulation, including re-
         quirements for the quality of the source water (pursu-
         ant to section 1412(b)(15)(A)); and
              (iv) information requirements for variance applica-
         tions.
         (B) AFFORDABILITY CRITERIA.—Not later than 18
    months after the date of enactment of the Safe Drinking
    Water Act Amendments of 1996, the Administrator, in con-
    sultation with the States and the Rural Utilities Service of
    the Department of Agriculture, shall publish information to
    assist the States in developing affordability criteria. The af-
    fordability criteria shall be reviewed by the States not less
    often than every 5 years to determine if changes are needed
    to the criteria.
    (8) REVIEW BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.—
         (A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall periodically
    review the program of each State that has primary enforce-
    ment responsibility for public water systems under section
    1413 with respect to variances to determine whether the
    variances granted by the State comply with the require-
    ments of this subsection. With respect to affordability, the
    determination of the Administrator shall be limited to
    whether the variances granted by the State comply with the
    affordability criteria developed by the State.
         (B) NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.—If the Administrator
    determines that variances granted by a State are not in
    compliance with affordability criteria developed by the
    State and the requirements of this subsection, the Adminis-
    trator shall notify the State in writing of the deficiencies
    and make public the determination.
    (9) APPROVAL OF VARIANCES.—A State proposing to grant a
variance under this subsection to a public water system serving
more than 3,300 and fewer than 10,000 persons shall submit
the variance to the Administrator for review and approval prior
                                   42

     to the issuance of the variance. The Administrator shall ap-
     prove the variance if it meets each of the requirements of this
     subsection. The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the
     variance within 90 days. If the Administrator disapproves a
     variance under this paragraph, the Administrator shall notify
     the State in writing of the reasons for disapproval and the vari-
     ance may be resubmitted with modifications to address the ob-
     jections stated by the Administrator.
          (10) OBJECTIONS TO VARIANCES.—
               (A) BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.—The Administrator may
          review and object to any variance proposed to be granted
          by a State, if the objection is communicated to the State not
          later than 90 days after the State proposes to grant the
          variance. If the Administrator objects to the granting of a
          variance, the Administrator shall notify the State in writ-
          ing of each basis for the objection and propose a modifica-
          tion to the variance to resolve the concerns of the Adminis-
          trator. The State shall make the recommended modification
          or respond in writing to each objection. If the State issues
          the variance without resolving the concerns of the Adminis-
          trator, the Administrator may overturn the State decision
          to grant the variance if the Administrator determines that
          the State decision does not comply with this subsection.
               (B) PETITION BY CONSUMERS.—Not later than 30 days
          after a State exercising primary enforcement responsibility
          for public water systems under section 1413 proposes to
          grant a variance for a public water system, any person
          served by the system may petition the Administrator to ob-
          ject to the granting of a variance. The Administrator shall
          respond to the petition and determine whether to object to
          the variance under subparagraph (A) not later than 60
          days after the receipt of the petition.
               (C) TIMING.—No variance shall be granted by a State
          until the later of the following:
                    (i) 90 days after the State proposes to grant a vari-
               ance.
                    (ii) If the Administrator objects to the variance, the
               date on which the State makes the recommended modi-
               fications or responds in writing to each objection.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–4]

                              EXEMPTIONS

     SEC. 1416. (a) A State which has primary enforcement respon-
sibility may exempt any public water system within the State’s ju-
risdiction from any requirement respecting a maximum contami-
nant level or any treatment technique requirement, or from both,
of an applicable national primary drinking water regulation upon
a finding that—
          (1) due to compelling factors (which may include economic
     factors, including qualification of the public water system as a
     system serving a disadvantaged community pursuant to section
     1452(d)), the public water system is unable to comply with
     such contaminant level or treatment technique requirement, or
                                43

    to implement measures to develop an alternative source of water
    supply,
         (2) the public water system was in operation on the effec-
    tive date of such contaminant level or treatment technique re-
    quirement, a system that was not in operation by that date,
    only if no reasonable alternative source of drinking water is
    available to such new system, ø; and¿
         (3) the granting of the exemption will not result in an un-
    reasonable risk to health; and
         (4) management or restructuring changes (or both) cannot
    reasonably be made that will result in compliance with this
    title or, if compliance cannot be achieved, improve the quality
    of the drinking water.
    (b)(1) If a State grants a public water system an exemption
under subsection (a), the State shall prescribe, at the time the ex-
emption is granted, a schedule for—
         (A) compliance ø(including increments of progress¿ (in-
    cluding increments of progress or measures to develop an alter-
    native source of water supply) by the public water system with
    each contaminant level ørequirement and treatment¿ require-
    ment or treatment technique requirement with respect to which
    the exemption was granted, and
         (B) implementation by the public water system of such
    control measures as the State may require for each contami-
    nant, subject to such contaminant level requirement or treat-
    ment technique requirement, during the period ending on the
    date compliance with such requirement is required.
Before a schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to this subsection
may take effect, the State shall provide notice and opportunity for
a public hearing on the schedule. A notice given pursuant to the
preceding sentence may cover the prescribing of more than one
such schedule and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall in-
clude each of the schedules covered by the notice.
    (2)(A) A schedule prescribed pursuant to this subsection for a
public water system granted an exemption under subsection (a)
shall require compliance by the system with each contaminant
level and treatment technique requirement with respect to which
the exemption was granted as expeditiously as practicable (as the
State may reasonably determine) but ø(except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B)—
         ø(i) in the case of an exemption granted with respect to a
    contaminant level or treatment technique requirement pre-
    scribed by the national primary drinking water regulations
    promulgated under section 1412(a), not later than 12 months
    after enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
    of 1986; and
         ø(ii) in the case of an exemption granted with respect to
    a contaminant level or treatment technique requirement pre-
    scribed by national primary drinking water regulations, other
    than a regulation referred to in section 1412(a), 12 months
    after the date of issuance of the exemption.
    ø(B) The final date for compliance provided in any schedule in
the case of any exemption may be extended by the State (in the
case of a State which has primary enforcement responsibility) or by
                                  44

the Administrator (in any other case) for a period not to exceed 3
years after the date of the issuance of the exemption if¿ not later
than 3 years after the otherwise applicable compliance date estab-
lished in section 1412(b)(10).
     (B) No exemption shall be granted unless the public water sys-
tem establishes that—
          (i) the system cannot meet the standard without capital
     improvements which cannot be completed øwithin the period of
     such exemption¿ prior to the date established pursuant to sec-
     tion 1412(b)(10);
          (ii) in the case of a system which needs financial assist-
     ance for the necessary improvement, the system has entered
     into an agreement to obtain such financial assistance or assist-
     ance pursuant to section 1452, or any other Federal or State
     program is reasonably likely to be available within the period
     of the exemption; or
          (iii) the system has entered into an enforceable agreement
     to become a part of a regional public water system; and
the system is taking all practicable steps to meet the standard.
     (C) In the case of a system which does not serve more than
ø500 service connections¿ a population of 3,300 and which needs
financial assistance for the necessary improvements, an exemption
granted under clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (B) may be renewed
for one or more additional 2-year periods, but not to exceed a total
of 6 years, if the system establishes that it is taking all practicable
steps to meet the requirements of subparagraph (B).
     (D) LIMITATION.—A public water system may not receive an ex-
emption under this section if the system was granted a variance
under section 1415(e).
     (3) Each public water system’s exemption granted by a State
under subsection (a) shall be conditioned by the State upon compli-
ance by the public water system with the schedule prescribed by
the State pursuant to this subsection. The requirements of each
schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to this subsection shall be
enforceable by the State under its laws. Any requirement of a
schedule on which an exemption granted under this section is con-
ditioned may be enforced under section 1414 as if such requirement
was part of a national primary drinking water regulation.
     (4) Each schedule prescribed by a State pursuant to this sub-
section shall be deemed approved by the Administrator unless the
exemption for which it was prescribed is revoked by the Adminis-
trator under subsection (d)(2) or the schedule is revised by the Ad-
ministrator under such subsection.
     (c) Each State which grants an exemption under subsection (a)
shall promptly notify the Administrator of the granting of such ex-
emption. Such notification shall contain the reasons for the exemp-
tion (including the basis for the finding required by subsection
(a)(3) before the exemption may be granted) and document the
need for the exemption.
     (d)(1) Not later than 18 months after the effective date of the
interim national primary drinking water regulations the Adminis-
trator shall complete a comprehensive review of the exemptions
granted (and schedules prescribed pursuant thereto) by the States
during the one-year period beginning on such effective date. The
                                 45

Administrator shall conduct such subsequent reviews of exemptions
and schedules as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of
this title, but each subsequent review shall be completed within
each 3-year period following the completion of the first review
under this subparagraph. Before conducting any review under this
subparagraph, the Administrator shall publish notice of the pro-
posed review in the Federal Register. Such notice shall (A) provide
information respecting the location of data and other information
respecting the exemptions to be reviewed (including data and other
information concerning new scientific matters bearing on such ex-
emptions), and (B) advise of the opportunity to submit comments
on the exemptions reviewed and on the need for continuing them.
Upon completion of any such review, the Administrator shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register the results of his review together with
findings responsive to comments submitted in connection with such
review.
     (2)(A) If the Administrator finds that a State has, in a substan-
tial number of instances, abused its discretion in granting exemp-
tions under subsection (a) or failed to prescribe schedules in accord-
ance with subsection (b), the Administrator shall notify the State
of his finding. In determining if a State has abused its discretion
in granting exemptions in a substantial number of instances, the
Administrator shall consider the number of persons who are af-
fected by the exemptions and if the requirements applicable to the
granting of the exemptions were complied with. A notice under this
subparagraph shall—
          (i) identify each exempt public water system with respect
     to which the finding was made,
          (ii) specify the reasons for the finding, and
          (iii) as appropriate, propose revocations of specific exemp-
     tions or propose revised schedules for specific exempt public
     water systems, or both.
     (B) The Administrator shall provide reasonable notice and pub-
lic hearing on the provisions of each notice given pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A). After a hearing on a notice pursuant to subpara-
graph (A), the Administrator shall (i) rescind the finding for which
the notice was given and promptly notify the State of such rescis-
sion, or (ii) promulgate (with such modifications as he deems ap-
propriate) such exemption revocations and revised schedules pro-
posed in such notice as he deems appropriate. Not later than 180
days after the date a notice is given pursuant to subparagraph (A),
the Administrator shall complete the hearing on the notice and
take the action required by the preceding sentence.
     (C) If a State is notified under subparagraph (A) of a finding
of the Administrator made with respect to an exemption granted a
public water system within that State or to a schedule prescribed
pursuant to such an exemption and if before a revocation of such
exemption or a revision of such schedule promulgated by the Ad-
ministrator takes effect the State takes corrective action with re-
spect to such exemption or schedule which the Administrator deter-
mines makes his finding inapplicable to such exemption or sched-
ule, the Administrator shall rescind the application of his finding
to that exemption or schedule. No exemption revocation or revised
schedule may take effect before the expiration of 90 days following
                                  46

the date of the notice in which the revocation or revised schedule
was proposed.
     (e) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘treatment technique
requirement’’ means a requirement in a national primary drinking
water regulation which specifies for a contaminant (in accordance
with section 1401(1)(C)(ii)) each treatment technique known to the
Administrator which leads to a reduction in the level of such con-
taminant sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 1412(b).
     (f) If a State does not have primary enforcement responsibility
for public water systems, the Administrator shall have the same
authority to exempt public water systems in such State from maxi-
mum contaminant level requirements and treatment technique re-
quirements under the same conditions and in the same manner as
the State would be authorized to grant exemptions under this sec-
tion if it had primary enforcement responsibility.
     (g) If an application for an exemption under this section is
made, the State receiving the application or the Administrator, as
the case may be, shall act upon such application within a reason-
able period (as determined under regulations prescribed by the Ad-
ministrator) after the date of its submission.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–5]

øSEC.   1417. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX¿

        PROHIBITION ON USE OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX

     SEC. 1417. (a) IN GENERAL.—
     ø(1) PROHIBITION.—Any pipe, solder, or flux, which is used
after the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
of 1986, in the installation or repair of—
          ø(A) any public water system, or
          ø(B) any plumbing in a residential or nonresidential facil-
     ity providing water for human consumption which is connected
     to a public water system,
øshall be lead free (within the meaning of subsection (d)). This
paragraph shall not apply to leaded joints necessary for the repair
of cast iron pipes.¿
          (1) PROHIBITIONS.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—No person may use any pipe, any
          pipe or plumbing fitting or fixture, any solder, or any flux,
          after June 19, 1986, in the installation or repair of—
                    (i) any public water system; or
                    (ii) any plumbing in a residential or nonresidential
               facility providing water for human consumption,
          that is not lead free (within the meaning of subsection (d)).
               (B) LEADED JOINTS.—Subparagraph (A) shall not
          apply to leaded joints necessary for the repair of cast iron
          pipes.
          (2) PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—Each owner or operator of a public
          water system shall identify and provide notice to persons
          that may be affected by lead contamination of their drink-
          ing water where such contamination results from either or
          both of the following:
                                  47

                   (i) The lead content in the construction materials
              of the public water distribution system.
                   (ii) Corrosivity of the water supply sufficient to
              cause leaching of lead.
         The notice shall be provided in such manner and form as
         may be reasonably required by the Administrator. Notice
         under this paragraph shall be provided notwithstanding
         the absence of a violation of any national drinking water
         standard.
              (B) CONTENTS OF NOTICE.—Notice under this para-
         graph shall provide a clear and readily understandable ex-
         planation of—
                   (i) the potential sources of lead in the drinking
              water,
                   (ii) potential adverse health effects,
                   (iii) reasonably available methods of mitigating
              known or potential lead content in drinking water,
                   (iv) any steps the system is taking to mitigate
              lead content in drinking water, and
                   (v) the necessity for seeking alternative water sup-
              plies, if any.
         (3) UNLAWFUL ACTS.—Effective 2 years after the date of en-
    actment of this paragraph, it shall be unlawful—
              (A) for any person to introduce into commerce any pipe,
         or any pipe or plumbing fitting or fixture, that is not lead
         free, except for a pipe that is used in manufacturing or in-
         dustrial processing;
              (B) for any person engaged in the business of selling
         plumbing supplies, except manufacturers, to sell solder or
         flux that is not lead free; or
              (C) for any person to introduce into commerce any sol-
         der or flux that is not lead free unless the solder or flux
         bears a prominent label stating that it is illegal to use the
         solder or flux in the installation or repair of any plumbing
         providing water for human consumption.
    (b) STATE ENFORCEMENT.—
         (1) ENFORCEMENT OF PROHIBITION.—The requirements of
    subsection (a)(1) shall be enforced in all States effective 24
    months after the enactment of this section. States shall enforce
    such requirements through State or local plumbing codes, or
    such other means of enforcement as the State may determine
    to be appropriate.
         (2) ENFORCEMENT OF PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—The
    requirements of subsection (a)(2) shall apply in all States effec-
    tive 24 months after the enactment of this section.
    (c) PENALTIES.—If the Administrator determines that a State is
not enforcing the requirements of subsection (a) as required pursu-
ant to subsection (b), the Administrator may withhold up to 5 per-
cent of Federal funds available to that State for State program
grants under section 1443(a).
    (d) DEFINITION OF LEAD FREE.—For purposes of this section,
the term ‘‘lead free’’—
                                  48

          (1) when used with respect to solders and flux refers to sol-
     ders and flux containing not more than 0.2 percent ølead and¿
     lead;
          (2) when used with respect to pipes and pipe fittings refers
     to pipes and pipe fittings containing not more than 8.0 percent
     ølead.¿ lead; and
          (3) when used with respect to plumbing fittings and fix-
     tures, refers to plumbing fittings and fixtures in compliance
     with standards established in accordance with subsection (e).
     (e) PLUMBING FITTINGS AND FIXTURES.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall provide accurate
     and timely technical information and assistance to qualified
     third-party certifiers in the development of voluntary standards
     and testing protocols for the leaching of lead from new plumb-
     ing fittings and fixtures that are intended by the manufacturer
     to dispense water for human ingestion.
          (2) STANDARDS.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—If a voluntary standard for the
          leaching of lead is not established by the date that is 1 year
          after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Adminis-
          trator shall, not later than 2 years after the date of enact-
          ment of this subsection, promulgate regulations setting a
          health-effects-based performance standard establishing
          maximum leaching levels from new plumbing fittings and
          fixtures that are intended by the manufacturer to dispense
          water for human ingestion. The standard shall become ef-
          fective on the date that is 5 years after the date of promul-
          gation of the standard.
               (B) ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENT.—If regulations are re-
          quired to be promulgated under subparagraph (A) and
          have not been promulgated by the date that is 5 years after
          the date of enactment of this subsection, no person may im-
          port, manufacture, process, or distribute in commerce a new
          plumbing fitting or fixture, intended by the manufacturer
          to dispense water for human ingestion, that contains more
          than 4 percent lead by dry weight.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–6]

                     MONITORING OF CONTAMINANTS

     SEC. 1418. (a) INTERIM MONITORING RELIEF AUTHORITY.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—A State exercising primary enforcement
     responsibility for public water systems may modify the monitor-
     ing requirements for any regulated or unregulated contami-
     nants for which monitoring is required other than microbial
     contaminants (or indicators thereof), disinfectants and disinfec-
     tion byproducts or corrosion byproducts for an interim period to
     provide that any public water system serving 10,000 persons or
     fewer shall not be required to conduct additional quarterly
     monitoring during an interim relief period for such contami-
     nants if—
               (A) monitoring, conducted at the beginning of the pe-
          riod for the contaminant concerned and certified to the
          State by the public water system, fails to detect the presence
                             49

     of the contaminant in the ground or surface water supply-
     ing the public water system; and
          (B) the State, considering the hydrogeology of the area
     and other relevant factors, determines in writing that the
     contaminant is unlikely to be detected by further monitor-
     ing during such period.
     (2) TERMINATION; TIMING OF MONITORING.—The interim re-
lief period referred to in paragraph (1) shall terminate when
permanent monitoring relief is adopted and approved for such
State, or at the end of 36 months after the date of enactment
of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996, whichever
comes first. In order to serve as a basis for interim relief, the
monitoring conducted at the beginning of the period must occur
at the time determined by the State to be the time of the public
water system’s greatest vulnerability to the contaminant con-
cerned in the relevant ground or surface water, taking into ac-
count in the case of pesticides the time of application of the pes-
ticide for the source water area and the travel time for the pes-
ticide to reach such waters and taking into account, in the case
of other contaminants, seasonality of precipitation and contami-
nant travel time.
(b) PERMANENT MONITORING RELIEF AUTHORITY.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—Each State exercising primary enforce-
ment responsibility for public water systems under this title and
having an approved source water assessment program may
adopt, in accordance with guidance published by the Adminis-
trator, tailored alternative monitoring requirements for public
water systems in such State (as an alternative to the monitoring
requirements for chemical contaminants set forth in the appli-
cable national primary drinking water regulations) where the
State concludes that (based on data available at the time of
adoption concerning susceptibility, use, occurrence, or wellhead
protection, or from the State’s drinking water source water as-
sessment program) such alternative monitoring would provide
assurance that it complies with the Administrator’s guidelines.
The State program must be adequate to assure compliance
with, and enforcement of, applicable national primary drinking
water regulations. Alternative monitoring shall not apply to
regulated microbiological contaminants (or indicators thereof),
disinfectants and disinfection byproducts, or corrosion byprod-
ucts. The preceding sentence is not intended to limit other au-
thority of the Administrator under other provisions of this title
to grant monitoring flexibility.
     (2) GUIDELINES.—
          (A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall issue, after
     notice and comment and at the same time as guidelines are
     issued for source water assessment under section 1453,
     guidelines for States to follow in proposing alternative
     monitoring requirements under paragraph (1) for chemical
     contaminants. The Administrator shall publish such guide-
     lines in the Federal Register. The guidelines shall assure
     that the public health will be protected from drinking water
     contamination. The guidelines shall require that a State al-
     ternative monitoring program apply on a contaminant-by-
                                 50

         contaminant basis and that, to be eligible for such alter-
         native monitoring program, a public water system must
         show the State that the contaminant is not present in the
         drinking water supply or, if present, it is reliably and con-
         sistently below the maximum contaminant level.
               (B) DEFINITION.—For purposes of subparagraph (A),
         the phrase ‘‘reliably and consistently below the maximum
         contaminant level’’ means that, although contaminants
         have been detected in a water supply, the State has suffi-
         cient knowledge of the contamination source and extent of
         contamination to predict that the maximum contaminant
         level will not be exceeded. In determining that a contami-
         nant is reliably and consistently below the maximum con-
         taminant level, States shall consider the quality and com-
         pleteness of data, the length of time covered and the vola-
         tility or stability of monitoring results during that time,
         and the proximity of such results to the maximum contami-
         nant level. Wide variations in the analytical results, or an-
         alytical results close to the maximum contaminant level,
         shall not be considered to be reliably and consistently below
         the maximum contaminant level.
         (3) EFFECT OF DETECTION OF CONTAMINANTS.—The guide-
    lines issued by the Administrator under paragraph (2) shall re-
    quire that if, after the monitoring program is in effect and oper-
    ating, a contaminant covered by the alternative monitoring pro-
    gram is detected at levels at or above the maximum contami-
    nant level or is no longer reliably or consistently below the max-
    imum contaminant level, the public water system must either—
               (A) demonstrate that the contamination source has
         been removed or that other action has been taken to elimi-
         nate the contamination problem; or
               (B) test for the detected contaminant pursuant to the
         applicable national primary drinking water regulation.
         (4) STATES NOT EXERCISING PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT RE-
    SPONSIBILITY.—The Governor of any State not exercising pri-
    mary enforcement responsibility under section 1413 on the date
    of enactment of this section may submit to the Administrator a
    request that the Administrator modify the monitoring require-
    ments established by the Administrator and applicable to pub-
    lic water systems in that State. After consultation with the Gov-
    ernor, the Administrator shall modify the requirements for pub-
    lic water systems in that State if the request of the Governor is
    in accordance with each of the requirements of this subsection
    that apply to alternative monitoring requirements established
    by States that have primary enforcement responsibility. A deci-
    sion by the Administrator to approve a request under this
    clause shall be for a period of 3 years and may subsequently be
    extended for periods of 5 years.
    (c) TREATMENT AS NPDWR.—All monitoring relief granted by
a State to a public water system for a regulated contaminant under
subsection (a) or (b) shall be treated as part of the national primary
drinking water regulation for that contaminant.
    (d) OTHER MONITORING RELIEF.—Nothing in this section shall
be construed to affect the authority of the States under applicable
                                  51

national primary drinking water regulations to alter monitoring re-
quirements through waivers or other existing authorities. The Ad-
ministrator shall periodically review and, as appropriate, revise
such authorities.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–7]
                      OPERATOR CERTIFICATION

     SEC. 1419. (a) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 30 months after the
date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
1996 and in cooperation with the States, the Administrator shall
publish guidelines in the Federal Register, after notice and oppor-
tunity for comment from interested persons, including States and
public water systems, specifying minimum standards for certifi-
cation (and recertification) of the operators of community and non-
transient noncommunity public water systems. Such guidelines
shall take into account existing State programs, the complexity of
the system, and other factors aimed at providing an effective pro-
gram at reasonable cost to States and public water systems, taking
into account the size of the system.
     (b) STATE PROGRAMS.—Beginning 2 years after the date on
which the Administrator publishes guidelines under subsection (a),
the Administrator shall withhold 20 percent of the funds a State is
otherwise entitled to receive under section 1452 unless the State has
adopted and is implementing a program for the certification of oper-
ators of community and nontransient noncommunity public water
systems that meets the requirements of the guidelines published pur-
suant to subsection (a) or that has been submitted in compliance
with subsection (c) and that has not been disapproved.
     (c) EXISTING PROGRAMS.—For any State exercising primary en-
forcement responsibility for public water systems or any other State
which has an operator certification program, the guidelines under
subsection (a) shall allow the State to enforce such program in lieu
of the guidelines under subsection (a) if the State submits the pro-
gram to the Administrator within 18 months after the publication
of the guidelines unless the Administrator determines (within 9
months after the State submits the program to the Administrator)
that such program is not substantially equivalent to such guide-
lines. In making this determination, an existing State program
shall be presumed to be substantially equivalent to the guidelines,
notwithstanding program differences, based on the size of systems
or the quality of source water, providing the State program meets
the overall public health objectives of the guidelines. If disapproved,
the program may be resubmitted within 6 months after receipt of
notice of disapproval.
     (d) EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall provide reim-
     bursement for the costs of training, including an appropriate
     per diem for unsalaried operators, and certification for persons
     operating systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer that are re-
     quired to undergo training pursuant to this section.
          (2) STATE GRANTS.—The reimbursement shall be provided
     through grants to States with each State receiving an amount
     sufficient to cover the reasonable costs for training all such op-
     erators in the State, as determined by the Administrator, to the
                                  52

     extent required by this section. Grants received by a State pur-
     suant to this paragraph shall first be used to provide reim-
     bursement for training and certification costs of persons operat-
     ing systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer. If a State has reim-
     bursed all such costs, the State may, after notice to the Admin-
     istrator, use any remaining funds from the grant for any of the
     other purposes authorized for grants under section 1452.
          (3) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be appro-
     priated to the Administrator to provide grants for reimburse-
     ment under this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years
     1997 through 2003.
          (4) RESERVATION.—If the appropriation made pursuant to
     paragraph (3) for any fiscal year is not sufficient to satisfy the
     requirements of paragraph (1), the Administrator shall, prior to
     any other allocation or reservation, reserve such sums as nec-
     essary from the funds appropriated pursuant to section 1452(m)
     to provide reimbursement for the training and certification costs
     mandated by this subsection.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–8]
                       CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT

     SEC. 1420. (a) STATE AUTHORITY FOR NEW SYSTEMS.—A State
shall receive only 80 percent of the allotment that the State is other-
wise entitled to receive under section 1452 (relating to State loan
funds) unless the State has obtained the legal authority or other
means to ensure that all new community water systems and new
nontransient, noncommunity water systems commencing operation
after October 1, 1999, demonstrate technical, managerial, and fi-
nancial capacity with respect to each national primary drinking
water regulation in effect, or likely to be in effect, on the date of
commencement of operations.
     (b) SYSTEMS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.—
          (1) LIST.—Beginning not later than 1 year after the date of
     enactment of this section, each State shall prepare, periodically
     update, and submit to the Administrator a list of community
     water systems and nontransient, noncommunity water systems
     that have a history of significant noncompliance with this title
     (as defined in guidelines issued prior to the date of enactment
     of this section or any revisions of the guidelines that have been
     made in consultation with the States) and, to the extent prac-
     ticable, the reasons for noncompliance.
          (2) REPORT.—Not later than 5 years after the date of enact-
     ment of this section and as part of the capacity development
     strategy of the State, each State shall report to the Adminis-
     trator on the success of enforcement mechanisms and initial ca-
     pacity development efforts in assisting the public water systems
     listed under paragraph (1) to improve technical, managerial,
     and financial capacity.
          (3) WITHHOLDING.—The list and report under this sub-
     section shall be considered part of the capacity development
     strategy of the State required under subsection (c) of this section
     for purposes of the withholding requirements of section
     1452(a)(1)(G)(i) (relating to State loan funds).
     (c) CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.—
                               53

     (1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning 4 years after the date of enact-
ment of this section, a State shall receive only—
          (A) 90 percent in fiscal year 2001;
          (B) 85 percent in fiscal year 2002; and
          (C) 80 percent in each subsequent fiscal year,
of the allotment that the State is otherwise entitled to receive
under section 1452 (relating to State loan funds), unless the
State is developing and implementing a strategy to assist public
water systems in acquiring and maintaining technical, manage-
rial, and financial capacity.
     (2) CONTENT.—In preparing the capacity development strat-
egy, the State shall consider, solicit public comment on, and in-
clude as appropriate—
          (A) the methods or criteria that the State will use to
     identify and prioritize the public water systems most in
     need of improving technical, managerial, and financial ca-
     pacity;
          (B) a description of the institutional, regulatory, finan-
     cial, tax, or legal factors at the Federal, State, or local level
     that encourage or impair capacity development;
          (C) a description of how the State will use the authori-
     ties and resources of this title or other means to—
               (i) assist public water systems in complying with
          national primary drinking water regulations;
               (ii) encourage the development of partnerships be-
          tween public water systems to enhance the technical,
          managerial, and financial capacity of the systems; and
               (iii) assist public water systems in the training and
          certification of operators;
          (D) a description of how the State will establish a base-
     line and measure improvements in capacity with respect to
     national primary drinking water regulations and State
     drinking water law; and
          (E) an identification of the persons that have an inter-
     est in and are involved in the development and implemen-
     tation of the capacity development strategy (including all
     appropriate agencies of Federal, State, and local govern-
     ments, private and nonprofit public water systems, and
     public water system customers).
     (3) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the date on which
a State first adopts a capacity development strategy under this
subsection, and every 3 years thereafter, the head of the State
agency that has primary responsibility to carry out this title in
the State shall submit to the Governor a report that shall also
be available to the public on the efficacy of the strategy and
progress made toward improving the technical, managerial,
and financial capacity of public water systems in the State.
     (4) REVIEW.—The decisions of the State under this section
regarding any particular public water system are not subject to
review by the Administrator and may not serve as the basis for
withholding funds under section 1452.
(d) FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall support the
States in developing capacity development strategies.
                                   54

          (2) INFORMATIONAL ASSISTANCE.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the
          date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall—
                    (i) conduct a review of State capacity development
               efforts in existence on the date of enactment of this sec-
               tion and publish information to assist States and pub-
               lic water systems in capacity development efforts; and
                    (ii) initiate a partnership with States, public water
               systems, and the public to develop information for
               States on recommended operator certification require-
               ments.
               (B) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION.—The Administrator
          shall publish the information developed through the part-
          nership under subparagraph (A)(ii) not later than 18
          months after the date of enactment of this section.
          (3) PROMULGATION OF DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS.—In
     promulgating a national primary drinking water regulation,
     the Administrator shall include an analysis of the likely effect
     of compliance with the regulation on the technical, financial,
     and managerial capacity of public water systems.
          (4) GUIDANCE FOR NEW SYSTEMS.—Not later than 2 years
     after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator
     shall publish guidance developed in consultation with the
     States describing legal authorities and other means to ensure
     that all new community water systems and new nontransient,
     noncommunity water systems demonstrate technical, manage-
     rial, and financial capacity with respect to national primary
     drinking water regulations.
     (e) VARIANCES AND EXEMPTIONS.—Based on information ob-
tained under subsection (c)(3), the Administrator shall, as appro-
priate, modify regulations concerning variances and exemptions for
small public water systems to ensure flexibility in the use of the
variances and exemptions. Nothing in this subsection shall be inter-
preted, construed, or applied to affect or alter the requirements of
section 1415 or 1416.
     (f) SMALL PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANCE
CENTERS.—
          (1) GRANT PROGRAM.—The Administrator is authorized to
     make grants to institutions of higher learning to establish and
     operate small public water system technology assistance centers
     in the United States.
          (2) RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CENTERS.—The responsibil-
     ities of the small public water system technology assistance cen-
     ters established under this subsection shall include the conduct
     of training and technical assistance relating to the information,
     performance, and technical needs of small public water systems
     or public water systems that serve Indian Tribes.
          (3) APPLICATIONS.—Any institution of higher learning inter-
     ested in receiving a grant under this subsection shall submit to
     the Administrator an application in such form and containing
     such information as the Administrator may require by regula-
     tion.
                             55

     (4) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Administrator shall select
recipients of grants under this subsection on the basis of the fol-
lowing criteria:
          (A) The small public water system technology assist-
     ance center shall be located in a State that is representative
     of the needs of the region in which the State is located for
     addressing the drinking water needs of small and rural
     communities or Indian Tribes.
          (B) The grant recipient shall be located in a region that
     has experienced problems, or may reasonably be foreseen to
     experience problems, with small and rural public water sys-
     tems.
          (C) The grant recipient shall have access to expertise in
     small public water system technology management.
          (D) The grant recipient shall have the capability to dis-
     seminate the results of small public water system tech-
     nology and training programs.
          (E) The projects that the grant recipient proposes to
     carry out under the grant are necessary and appropriate.
          (F) The grant recipient has regional support beyond the
     host institution.
     (5) CONSORTIA OF STATES.—At least 2 of the grants under
this subsection shall be made to consortia of States with low
population densities.
     (6) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are author-
ized to be appropriated to make grants under this subsection
$2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1997 through 1999, and
$5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2000 through 2003.
(g) ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE CENTERS.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall provide initial
funding for one or more university-based environmental finance
centers for activities that provide technical assistance to State
and local officials in developing the capacity of public water
systems. Any such funds shall be used only for activities that
are directly related to this title.
     (2) NATIONAL CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT CLEARINGHOUSE.—
The Administrator shall establish a national public water sys-
tem capacity development clearinghouse to receive and dissemi-
nate information with respect to developing, improving, and
maintaining financial and managerial capacity at public water
systems. The Administrator shall ensure that the clearinghouse
does not duplicate other federally supported clearinghouse ac-
tivities.
     (3) CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT TECHNIQUES.—The Adminis-
trator may request an environmental finance center funded
under paragraph (1) to develop and test managerial, financial,
and institutional techniques for capacity development. The tech-
niques may include capacity assessment methodologies, manual
and computer based public water system rate models and cap-
ital planning models, public water system consolidation proce-
dures, and regionalization models.
     (4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are author-
ized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $1,500,000
for each of the fiscal years 1997 through 2003.
                                   56

        (5) LIMITATION.—No portion of any funds made available
     under this subsection may be used for lobbying expenses.
[42 U.S.C. 300g–9]

  PART C—PROTECTION        OF   UNDERGROUND SOURCES    OF   DRINKING
                                  WATER
                     REGULATIONS FOR STATE PROGRAMS

     SEC. 1421. (a)(1) The Administrator shall publish proposed reg-
ulations for State underground injection control programs within
180 days after the date of enactment of this title. Within 180 days
after publication of such proposed regulations, he shall promulgate
such regulations with such modifications as he deems appropriate.
Any regulation under this subsection may be amended from time
to time.
     (2) Any regulation under this section shall be proposed and
promulgated in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United
States Code (relating to rulemaking), except that the Administrator
shall provide opportunity for public hearing prior to promulgation
of such regulations. In proposing and promulgating regulations
under this section, the Administrator shall consult with the Sec-
retary, the National Drinking Water Advisory Council, and other
appropriate Federal entities and with interested State entities.
     (b)(1) Regulations under subsection (a) for State underground
injection programs shall contain minimum requirements for effec-
tive programs to prevent underground injection which endangers
drinking water sources within the meaning of subsection (d)(2).
Such regulations shall require that a State program, in order to be
approved under section 1422—
          (A) shall prohibit, effective on the date on which the appli-
     cable underground injection control program takes effect, any
     underground injection in such State which is not authorized by
     a permit issued by the State (except that the regulations may
     permit a State to authorize underground injection by rule);
          (B) shall require (i) in the case of a program which pro-
     vides for authorization of underground injection by permit,
     that the applicant for the permit to inject must satisfy the
     State that the underground injection will not endanger drink-
     ing water sources, and (ii) in the case of a program which pro-
     vides for such an authorization by rule, that no rule may be
     promulgated which authorizes any underground injection
     which endangers drinking water sources;
          (C) shall include inspection, monitoring, recordkeeping,
     and reporting requirements; and
          (D) shall apply (i) as prescribed by section 1447(b), to un-
     derground injections by Federal agencies, and (ii) to under-
     ground injections by any other person whether or not occurring
     on property owned or leased by the United States.
     (2) Regulations of the Administrator under this section for
State underground injection control programs may not prescribe re-
quirements which interfere with or impede—
          (A) the underground injection of brine or other fluids
     which are brought to the surface in connection with oil or natu-
     ral gas production or natural gas storage operations, or
                                 57

           (B) any underground injection for the secondary or tertiary
     recovery of oil or natural gas,
unless such requirements are essential to assure that underground
sources of drinking water will not be endangered by such injection.
     (3)(A) The regulations of the Administrator under this section
shall permit or provide for consideration of varying geologic,
hydrological, or historical conditions in different States and in dif-
ferent areas within a State.
     (B)(i) In prescribing regulations under this section the Admin-
istrator shall, to the extent feasible, avoid promulgation of require-
ments which would unnecessarily disrupt State underground injec-
tion control programs which are in effect and being enforced in a
substantial number øor¿ of States.
     (ii) For the purpose of this subparagraph, a regulation pre-
scribed by the Administrator under this section shall be deemed to
disrupt a State underground injection control program only if it
would be infeasible to comply with both such regulation and the
State underground injection control program.
     (iii) For the purpose of this subparagraph, a regulation pre-
scribed by the Administrator under this section shall be deemed
unnecessary only if, without such regulation, underground sources
of drinking water will not be endangered by any underground injec-
tion.
     (C) Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter or affect
the duty to assure that underground sources of drinking water will
not be endangered by any underground injection.
     (c)(1) The Administrator may, upon application of the Governor
of a State which authorizes underground injection by means of per-
mits, authorize such State to issue (without regard to subsection
(b)(1)(B)(i)) temporary permits for underground injection which
may be effective until the expiration of four years after the date of
enactment of this title, if—
           (A) the Administrator finds that the State has dem-
     onstrated that it is unable and could not reasonably have been
     able to process all permit applications within the time avail-
     able;
           (B) the Administrator determines the adverse effect on the
     environment of such temporary permits is not unwarranted;
           (C) such temporary permits will be issued only with re-
     spect to injection wells in operation on the date on which such
     State’s permit program approved under this part first takes ef-
     fect and for which there was inadequate time to process its
     permit application; and
           (D) the Administrator determines the temporary permits
     require the use of adequate safeguards established by rules
     adopted by him.
     (2) The Administrator may, upon application of the Governor
of a State which authorizes underground injection by means of per-
mits, authorize such State to issue (without regard to subsection
(b)(1)(B)(i)), but after reasonable notice and hearing, one or more
temporary permits each of which is applicable to a particular injec-
tion well and to the underground injection of a particular fluid and
which may be effective until the expiration of four years after the
                                 58

date of enactment of this title, if the State finds, on the record of
such hearing—
         (A) that technology (or other means) to permit safe injec-
    tion of the fluid in accordance with the applicable underground
    injection control program is not generally available (taking
    costs into consideration);
         (B) that injection of the fluid would be less harmful to
    health than the use of other available means of disposing of
    waste or producing the desired product; and
         (C) that available technology or other means have been
    employed (and will be employed) to reduce the volume and tox-
    icity of the fluid and to minimize the potentially adverse effect
    of the injection on the public health.
    (d) For purposes of this part:
         (1) The term ‘‘underground injection’’ means the sub-
    surface emplacement of fluids by well injection. Such term does
    not include the underground injection of natural gas for pur-
    poses of storage.
         (2) Underground injection endangers drinking water
    sources if such injection may result in the presence in under-
    ground water which supplies or can reasonably be expected to
    supply any public water system of any contaminant, and if the
    presence of such contaminant may result in such system’s not
    complying with any national primary drinking water regula-
    tion or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons.
[42 U.S.C. 300h]

             STATE PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

     SEC. 1422. (a) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of
this title, the Administrator shall list in the Federal Register each
State for which in his judgment a State underground injection con-
trol program may be necessary to assure that underground injec-
tion will not endanger drinking water sources. Such list may be
amended from time to time.
     (b)(1)(A) Each State listed under subsection (a) shall within
270 days after the date of promulgation of any regulation under
section 1421 (or, if later, within 270 days after such State is first
listed under subsection (a)) submit to the Administrator an applica-
tion which contains a showing satisfactory to the Administrator
that the State—
          (i) has adopted after reasonable notice and public hearings,
     and will implement, an underground injection control program
     which meets the requirements of regulations in effect under
     section 1421; and
          (ii) will keep such records and make such reports with re-
     spect to its activities under its underground injection control
     program as the Administrator may require by regulation.
The Administrator may, for good cause, extend the date for submis-
sion of an application by any State under this subparagraph for a
period not to exceed an additional 270 days.
     (B) Within 270 days of any amendment of a regulation under
section 1421 revising or adding any requirement respecting State
underground injection control programs, each State listed under
                                  59

subsection (a) shall submit (in such form and manner as the Ad-
ministrator may require) a notice to the Administrator containing
a showing satisfactory to him that the State underground injection
control program meets the revised or added requirement.
     (2) Within ninety days after the State’s application under para-
graph (1)(A) or notice under paragraph (1)(B) and after reasonable
opportunity for presentation of views, the Administrator shall by
rule either approve, disapprove, or approve in part and disapprove
in part, the State’s underground injection control program.
     (3) If the Administrator approves the State’s program under
paragraph (2), the State shall have primary enforcement respon-
sibility for underground water sources until such time as the Ad-
ministrator determines, by rule, that such State no longer meets
the requirements of clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(A) of this sub-
section.
     (4) Before promulgating any rule under paragraph (2) or (3) of
this subsection, the Administrator shall provide opportunity for
public hearing respecting such rule.
     (c) If the Administrator disapproves a State’s program (or part
thereof) under subsection (b)(2), if the Administrator determines
under subsection (b)(3) that a State no longer meets the require-
ments of clause (i) or (ii) of subsection (b)(1)(A), or if a State fails
to submit an application or notice before the date of expiration of
the period specified in subsection (b)(1), the Administrator shall by
regulation within 90 days after the date of such disapproval, deter-
mination, or expiration (as the case may be) prescribe (and may
from time to time by regulation revise) a program applicable to
such State meeting the requirements of section 1421(b). Such pro-
gram may not include requirements which interfere with or
impede—
          (1) the underground injection of brine or other fluids which
     are brought to the surface in connection with oil or natural gas
     production or natural gas storage operations, or
          (2) any underground injection for the secondary or tertiary
     recovery of oil or natural gas,
unless such requirements are essential to assure that underground
sources of drinking water will not be endangered by such injection.
Such program shall apply in such State to the extent that a pro-
gram adopted by such State which the Administrator determines
meets such requirements is not in effect. Before promulgating any
regulation under this section, the Administrator shall provide op-
portunity for public hearing respecting such regulation.
     (d) For purposes of this title, the term ‘‘applicable underground
injection control program’’ with respect to a State means the pro-
gram (or most recent amendment thereof) (1) which has been
adopted by the State and which has been approved under sub-
section (b), or (2) which has been prescribed by the Administrator
under subsection (c).
     (e) An Indian Tribe may assume primary enforcement respon-
sibility for underground injection control under this section consist-
ent with such regulations as the Administrator has prescribed pur-
suant to Part C and section 1451 of this Act. The area over which
such Indian Tribe exercises governmental jurisdiction need not
have been listed under subsection (a) of this section, and such
                                  60

Tribe need not submit an application to assume primary enforce-
ment responsibility within the 270-day deadline noted in sub-
section (b)(1)(A) of this section. Until an Indian Tribe assumes pri-
mary enforcement responsibility, the currently applicable under-
ground injection control program shall continue to apply. If an ap-
plicable underground injection control program does not exist for
an Indian Tribe, the Administrator shall prescribe such a program
pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, and consistent with sec-
tion 1421(b), within 270 days after the enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, unless an Indian Tribe
first obtains approval to assume primary enforcement responsibil-
ity for underground injection control.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–1]
                     ENFORCEMENT OF PROGRAM

     SEC. 1423. (a)(1) Whenever the Administrator finds during a
period during which a State has primary enforcement responsibil-
ity for underground water sources (within the meaning of section
1422(b)(3) or section 1425(c)) that any person who is subject to a
requirement of an applicable underground injection control pro-
gram in such State is violating such requirement, he shall so notify
the State and the person violating such requirement. If beyond the
thirtieth day after the Administrator’s notification the State has
not commenced appropriate enforcement action, the Administrator
shall issue an order under subsection (c) requiring the person to
comply with such requirement or the Administrator shall com-
mence a civil action under subsection (b).
     (2) Whenever the Administrator finds during a period during
which a State does not have primary enforcement responsibility for
underground water sources that any person subject to any require-
ment of any applicable underground injection control program in
such State is violating such requirement, the Administrator shall
issue an order under subsection (c) requiring the person to comply
with such requirement or the Administrator shall commence a civil
action under subsection (b).
     (b) CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ACTIONS.—Civil actions referred to in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) shall be brought in the ap-
propriate United States district court. Such court shall have juris-
diction to require compliance with any requirement of an applicable
underground injection program or with an order issued under sub-
section (c). The court may enter such judgment as protection of
public health may require. Any person who violates any require-
ment of an applicable underground injection control program or an
order requiring compliance under subsection (c)—
          (1) shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than
     $25,000 for each day of such violation, and
          (2) if such violation is willful, such person may, in addition
     to or in lieu of the civil penalty authorized by paragraph (1),
     be imprisoned for not more than 3 years, or fined in accordance
     with title 18 of the United States Code, or both.
     (c) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—(1) In any case in which the Ad-
ministrator is authorized to bring a civil action under this section
with respect to any regulation or other requirement of this part
other than those relating to—
                                  61

          (A) the underground injection of brine or other fluids
     which are brought to the surface in connection with oil or natu-
     ral gas production, or
          (B) any underground injection for the secondary or tertiary
     recovery of oil or natural gas,
the Administrator may also issue an order under this subsection ei-
ther assessing a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 for each day
of violation for any past or current violation, up to a maximum ad-
ministrative penalty of $125,000, or requiring compliance with such
regulation or other requirement, or both.
     (2) In any case in which the Administrator is authorized to
bring a civil action under this section with respect to any regula-
tion, or other requirement of this part relating to—
          (A) the underground injection of brine or other fluids
     which are brought to the surface in connection with oil or natu-
     ral gas production, or
          (B) any underground injection for the secondary or tertiary
     recovery of oil or natural gas,
the Administrator may also issue an order under this subsection ei-
ther assessing a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day
of violation for any past or current violation, up to a maximum ad-
ministrative penalty of $125,000, or requiring compliance with such
regulation or other requirement, or both.
     (3)(A) An order under this subsection shall be issued by the
Administrator after opportunity (provided in accordance with this
subparagraph) for a hearing. Before issuing the order, the Adminis-
trator shall give to the person to whom it is directed written notice
of the Administrator’s proposal to issue such order and the oppor-
tunity to request, within 30 days of the date the notice is received
by such person, a hearing on the order. Such hearing shall not be
subject to section 554 or 556 of title 5, United States Code, but
shall provide a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present
evidence.
     (B) The Administrator shall provide public notice of, and rea-
sonable opportunity to comment on, any proposed order.
     (C) Any citizen who comments on any proposed order under
subparagraph (B) shall be given notice of any hearing under this
subsection and of any order. In any hearing held under subpara-
graph (A), such citizen shall have a reasonable opportunity to be
heard and to present evidence.
     (D) Any order issued under this subsection shall become effec-
tive 30 days following its issuance unless an appeal is taken pursu-
ant to paragraph (6).
     (4)(A) Any order issued under this subsection shall state with
reasonable specificity the nature of the violation and may specify
a reasonable time for compliance.
     (B) In assessing any civil penalty under this subsection, the
Administrator shall take into account appropriate factors, including
(i) the seriousness of the violation; (ii) the economic benefit (if any)
resulting from the violation; (iii) any history of such violations; (iv)
any good-faith efforts to comply with the applicable requirements;
(v) the economic impact of the penalty on the violator; and (vi) such
other matters as justice may require.
                                  62

     (5) Any violation with respect to which the Administrator has
commenced and is diligently prosecuting an action, or has issued
an order under this subsection assessing a penalty, shall not be
subject to an action under subsection (b) of this section or section
1424(c) or 1449, except that the foregoing limitation on civil actions
under section 1449 of this Act shall not apply with respect to any
violation for which—
          (A) a civil action under section 1449(a)(1) has been filed
     prior to commencement of an action under this subsection, or
          (B) a notice of violation under section 1449(b)(1) has been
     given before commencement of an action under this subsection
     and an action under section 1449(a)(1) of this Act is filed before
     120 days after such notice is given.
     (6) Any person against whom an order is issued or who com-
mented on a proposed order pursuant to paragraph (3) may file an
appeal of such order with the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia or the district in which the violation is alleged
to have occurred. Such an appeal may only be filed within the 30-
day period beginning on the date the order is issued. Appellant
shall simultaneously send a copy of the appeal by certified mail to
the Administrator and to the Attorney General. The Administrator
shall promptly file in such court a certified copy of the record on
which such order was imposed. The district court shall not set
aside or remand such order unless there is not substantial evidence
on the record, taken as a whole, to support the finding of a viola-
tion or, unless the Administrator’s assessment of penalty or re-
quirement for compliance constitutes an abuse of discretion. The
district court shall not impose additional civil penalties for the
same violation unless the Administrator’s assessment of a penalty
constitutes an abuse of discretion. Notwithstanding section
1448(a)(2), any order issued under paragraph (3) shall be subject
to judicial review exclusively under this paragraph.
     (7) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty—
          (A) after the order becomes effective under paragraph (3),
     or
          (B) after a court, in an action brought under paragraph (6),
     has entered a final judgment in favor of the Administrator,
the Administrator may request the Attorney General to bring a
civil action in an appropriate district court to recover the amount
assessed (plus costs, attorneys’ fees, and interest at currently pre-
vailing rates from the date the order is effective or the date of such
final judgment, as the case may be). In such an action, the validity,
amount, and appropriateness of such penalty shall not be subject
to review.
     (8) The Administrator may, in connection with administrative
proceedings under this subsection, issue subpoenas compelling the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and subpoenas duces tecum,
and may request the Attorney General to bring an action to enforce
any subpoena under this section. The district courts shall have ju-
risdiction to enforce such subpoenas and impose sanction.
     (d) Nothing in this title shall diminish any authority of a State
or political subdivision to adopt or enforce any law or regulation re-
specting underground injection but no such law or regulation shall
                                 63

relieve any person of any requirement otherwise applicable under
this title.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–2]

          INTERIM REGULATION OF UNDERGROUND INJECTIONS

     SEC. 1424. (a)(1) Any person may petition the Administrator to
have an area of a State (or States) designated as an area in which
no new underground injection well may be operated during the pe-
riod beginning on the date of the designation and ending on the
date on which the applicable underground injection control pro-
gram covering such area takes effect unless a permit for the oper-
ation of such well has been issued by the Administrator under sub-
section (b). The Administrator may so designate an area within a
State if he finds that the area has one aquifer which is the sole
or principal drinking water source for the area and which, if con-
taminated, would create a significant hazard to public health.
     (2) Upon receipt of a petition under paragraph (1) of this sub-
section, the Administrator shall publish it in the Federal Register
and shall provide an opportunity to interested persons to submit
written data, views, or arguments thereon. Not later than the 30th
day following the date of the publication of a petition under this
paragraph in the Federal Register, the Administrator shall either
make the designation for which the petition is submitted or deny
the petition.
     (b)(1) During the period beginning on the date an area is des-
ignated under subsection (a) and ending on the date the applicable
underground injection control program covering such area takes ef-
fect, no new underground injection well may be operated in such
area unless the Administrator has issued a permit for such oper-
ation.
     (2) Any person may petition the Administrator for the issuance
of a permit for the operation of such a well in such an area. A peti-
tion submitted under this paragraph shall be submitted in such
manner and contain such information as the Administrator may re-
quire by regulation. Upon receipt of such a petition, the Adminis-
trator shall publish it in the Federal Register. The Administrator
shall give notice of any proceeding on a petition and shall provide
opportunity for agency hearing. The Administrator shall act upon
such petition on the record of any hearing held pursuant to the
preceding sentence respecting such petition. Within 120 days of the
publication in the Federal Register of a petition submitted under
this paragraph, the Administrator shall either issue the permit for
which the petition was submitted or shall deny its issuance.
     (3) The Administrator may issue a permit for the operation of
a new underground injection well in an area designated under sub-
section (a) only if he finds that the operation of such well will not
cause contamination of the aquifer of such area so as to create a
significant hazard to public health. The Administrator may condi-
tion the issuance of such a permit upon the use of such control
measures in connection with the operation of such well, for which
the permit is to be issued, as he deems necessary to assure that
the operation of the well will not contaminate the aquifer of the
                                  64

designated area in which the well is located so as to create a sig-
nificant hazard to public health.
     (c) Any person who operates a new underground injection well
in violation of subsection (b), (1) shall be subject to a civil penalty
of not more than $5,000 for each day in which such violation oc-
curs, or (2) if such violation is willful, such person may, in lieu of
the civil penalty authorized by clause (1), be fined not more than
$10,000 for each day in which such violation occurs. If the Adminis-
trator has reason to believe that any person is violating or will vio-
late subsection (b), he may petition the United States district court
to issue a temporary restraining order or injunction (including a
mandatory injunction) to enforce such subsection.
     (d) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘new underground in-
jection well’’ means an underground injection well whose operation
was not approved by appropriate State and Federal agencies before
the date of the enactment of this title.
     (e) If the Administrator determines, on his own initiative or
upon petition, that an area has an aquifer which is the sole or prin-
cipal drinking water source for the area and which, if contami-
nated, would create a significant hazard to public health, he shall
publish notice of that determination in the Federal Register. After
the publication of any such notice, no commitment for Federal fi-
nancial assistance (through a grant, contract, loan guarantee, or
otherwise) may be entered into for any project which the Adminis-
trator determines may contaminate such aquifer through a re-
charge zone so as to create a significant hazard to public health,
but a commitment for Federal financial assistance may, if author-
ized under another provision of law, be entered into to plan or de-
sign the project to assure that it will not so contaminate the aqui-
fer.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–3]

OPTIONAL DEMONSTRATION BY STATES RELATING TO OIL OR NATURAL
                           GAS

     SEC. 1425. (a) For purposes of the Administrator’s approval or
disapproval under section 1422 of that portion of any State under-
ground injection control program which relates to—
          (1) the underground injection of brine or other fluids which
     are brought to the surface in connection with oil or natural gas
     production or natural gas storage operations, or
          (2) any underground injection for the secondary or tertiary
     recovery of oil or natural gas,
in lieu of the showing required under subparagraph (A) of section
1422(b)(1) the State may demonstrate that such portion of the
State program meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A)
through (D) of section 1421(b)(1) and represents an effective pro-
gram (including adequate recordkeeping and reporting) to prevent
underground injection which endangers drinking water sources.
     (b) If the Administrator revises or amends any requirement of
a regulation under section 1421 relating to any aspect of the under-
ground injection referred to in subsection (a), in the case of that
portion of a State underground injection control program for which
the demonstration referred to in subsection (a) has been made, in
                                                65

lieu of the showing required under section 1422(b)(1)(B) the State
may demonstrate that, with respect to that aspect of such under-
ground injection, the State program meets the requirements of sub-
paragraphs (A) through (D) of section 1421(b)(1) and represents an
effective program (including adequate recordkeeping and reporting)
to prevent underground injection which endangers drinking water
sources.
      (c)(1) Section 1422(b)(3) shall not apply to that portion of any
State underground injection control program approved by the Ad-
ministrator pursuant to a demonstration under subsection (a) of
this section (and under subsection (b) of this section where applica-
ble).
      (2) If pursuant to such a demonstration, the Administrator ap-
proves such portion of the State program, the State shall have pri-
mary enforcement responsibility with respect to that portion until
such time as the Administrator determines, by rule, that such dem-
onstration is no longer valid. Following such a determination, the
Administrator may exercise the authority of subsection (c) of sec-
tion 1422 in the same manner as provided in such subsection with
respect to a determination described in such subsection.
      (3) Before promulgating any rule under paragraph (2), the Ad-
ministrator shall provide opportunity for public hearing respecting
such rule.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–4]

                øSEC.    1426. REGULATION OF STATE PROGRAMS¿

                         REGULATION OF STATE PROGRAMS

     SEC. 1426. (a) 1 Not later than 18 months after enactment of
the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, the Adminis-
trator shall modify regulations issued under this Act for Class I in-
jection wells to identify monitoring methods, in addition to those in
effect on November 1, 1985, including groundwater monitoring. In
accordance with such regulations, the Administrator, or delegated
State authority, shall determine the applicability of such monitor-
ing methods, wherever appropriate, at locations and in such a man-
ner as to proivide the earliest possible detection of fluid migration
into, or in the direction of, underground sources of drinking water
from such wells, based on its assessment of the potential for fluid
migration from the injection zone that may be harmful to human
health or the environment. For purposes of this subsection, a class
I injection well is defined in accordance with 40 CFR 146.05 as in
effect on November 1, 1985.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–5]

     øSEC.    1427. SOLE SOURCE AQUIFER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM¿

              SOLE SOURCE AQUIFER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

     SEC. 1427. (a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section is to es-
tablish procedures for development, implementation, and assess-
ment of demonstration programs designed to protect critical aquifer
  1 Public Law 104–66 struck the designation ‘‘(a)’’ and subsection (b). Section 501(f)(2) of Public
Law 104–182 amended the section heading and designation. The ‘‘(a)’’ should be deleted.
                                  66

protection areas located within areas designated as sole or prin-
cipal source aquifers under section 1424(e) of this Act.
     (b) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘critical
aquifer protection area’’ means either of the following:
          (1) All or part of an area located within an area for which
     an application or designation as a sole or principal source aqui-
     fer pursuant to section 1424(e), has been submitted and ap-
     proved by the Administrator ønot later than 24 months after
     the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
     1986¿ and which satisfies the criteria established by the Ad-
     ministrator under subsection (d).
          (2) All or part of an area which is within an aquifer des-
     ignated as a sole source aquifer as of the enactment of the Safe
     Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986 and for which an
     areawide ground water quality protection plan has been ap-
     proved under section 208 of the Clean Water Act prior to such
     enactment.
     (c) APPLICATION.—Any State, municipal or local government or
political subdivision thereof of any planning entity (including any
interstate regional planning entity) that identifies a critical aquifer
protection area over which it has authority or jurisdiction may
apply to the Administrator for the selection of such area for a dem-
onstration program under this section. Any applicant shall consult
with other government or planning entities with authority or juris-
diction in such area prior to application. Applicants, other than the
Governor, shall submit the application for a demonstration pro-
gram jointly with the Governor.
     (d) CRITERIA.—Not later than 1 year after the enactment of the
Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, the Administrator
shall, by rule, establish criteria for identifying critical aquifer pro-
tection areas under this section. In establishing such criteria, the
Administrator shall consider each of the following:
          (1) The vulnerability of the aquifer to contamination due
     to hydrogeologic characteristics.
          (2) The number of persons or the proportion of population
     using the ground water as a drinking water source.
          (3) The economic, social and environmental benefits that
     would result to the area from maintenance of ground water of
     high quality.
          (4) The economic, social and environmental costs that
     would result from degradation of the quality of the ground
     water.
     (e) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.—An application submitted to
the Administrator by any applicant for demonstration program
under this section shall meet each of the following requirements:
          (1) The application shall propose boundaries for the critical
     aquifer protection area within its jurisdiction.
          (2) The application shall designate or, if necessary, estab-
     lish a planning entity (which shall be a public agency and
     which shall include representation of elected local and State
     governmental officials) to develop a comprehensive manage-
     ment plan (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘‘plan’’)
     for the critical protection area. Where a local government plan-
     ning agency exists with adequate authority to carry out this
                             67

section with respect to any proposed critical protection area,
such agency shall be designated as the planning entity.
     (3) The application shall establish procedures for public
participation in the development of the plan, for review, ap-
proval, and adoption of the plan, and for assistance to munici-
palities and other public agencies with authority under State
law to implement the plan.
     (4) The application shall include a hydrogeologic assess-
ment of surface and ground water resources within the critical
protection area.
     (5) The application shall include a comprehensive manage-
ment plan for the proposed protection area.
     (6) The application shall include the measures and sched-
ule proposed for implementation of such plan.
(f) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.—
     (1) The objective of a comprehensive management plan
submitted by an applicant under this section shall be to main-
tain the quality of the ground water in the critical protection
area in a manner reasonably expected to protect human
health, the environment and ground water resources. In order
to achieve such objective, the plan may be designed to main-
tain, to the maximum extent possible, the natural vegetative
and hydrogeological conditions. Each of the following elements
shall be included in such a protection plan:
          (A) A map showing the detailed boundary of the criti-
     cal protection area.
          (B) An identification of existing and potential point
     and nonpoint sources of ground water degradation.
          (C) An assessment of the relationship between activi-
     ties on the land surface and ground water quality.
          (D) Specific actions and management practices to be
     implemented in the critical protection area to prevent ad-
     verse impacts on ground water quality.
          (E) Identification of authority adequate to implement
     the plan, estimates of program costs, and sources of State
     matching funds.
     (2) Such plan may also include the following:
          (A) A determination of the quality of the existing
     ground water recharged through the special protection
     area and the natural recharge capabilities of the special
     protection area watershed.
          (B) Requirements designed to maintain existing un-
     derground drinking water quality or improve underground
     drinking water quality if prevailing conditions fail to meet
     drinking water standards, pursuant to this Act and State
     law.
          (C) Limits on Federal, State, and local government, fi-
     nancially assisted activities and projects which may con-
     tribute to degradation of such ground water or any loss of
     natural surface and subsurface infiltration of purification
     capability of the special protection watershed.
          (D) A comprehensive statement of land use manage-
     ment including emergency contingency planning as it per-
     tains to the maintenance of the quality of underground
                                  68

          sources of drinking water or to the improvement of such
          sources if necessary to meet drinking water standards pur-
          suant to this Act and State law.
               (E) Actions in the special protection area which would
          avoid adverse impacts on water quality, recharge capabili-
          ties, or both.
               (F) Consideration of specific techniques, which may in-
          clude clustering, transfer of development rights, and other
          innovative measures sufficient to achieve the objectives of
          this section.
               (G) Consideration of the establishment of a State insti-
          tution to facilitate and assist funding a development trans-
          fer credit system.
               (H) A program for State and local implementation of
          the plan described in this subsection in a manner that will
          insure the continued, uniform, consistent protection of the
          critical protection area in accord with the purposes of this
          section.
               (I) Pollution abatement measures, if appropriate.
     (g) PLANS UNDER SECTION 208 OF THE CLEAN WATER ACT.—A
plan approved before the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water
Act Amendments of 1986 under section 208 of the Clean Water Act
to protect a sole source aquifer designated under section 1424(e) of
this Act shall be considered a comprehensive management plan for
the purposes of this section.
     (h) CONSULTATION AND HEARINGS.—During the development of
a comprehensive management plan under this section, the plan-
ning entity shall consult with, and consider the comments of, ap-
propriate officials of any municipality and State or Federal agency
which has jurisdiction over lands and waters within the special
protection area, other concerned organizations and technical and
citizen advisory committees. The planning entity shall conduct pub-
lic hearings at places within the special protection area for the pur-
pose of providing the opportunity to comment on any aspect of the
plan.
     (i) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.—Within 120 days after receipt
of an application under this section, the Administrator shall ap-
prove or disapprove the application. The approval or disapproval
shall be based on a determination that the critical protection area
satisfies the criteria established under subsection (d) and that a
demonstration program for the area would provide protection for
ground water quality consistent with the objectives stated in sub-
section (f). The Administrator shall provide to the Governor a writ-
ten explanation of the reasons for the disapproval of any such ap-
plication. Any petitioner may modify and resubmit any application
which is not approved. Upon approval of an application, the Admin-
istrator may enter into a cooperative agreement with the applicant
to establish a demonstration program under this section.
     (j) GRANTS AND REIMBURSEMENT.—Upon entering a cooperative
agreement under subsection (i), the Administrator may provide to
the applicant, on a matching basis, a grant of 50 per centum of the
costs of implementing the plan established under this section. The
Administrator may also reimburse the applicant of an approved
plan up to 50 per centum of the costs of developing such plan, ex-
                                                                69

cept for plans approved under section 208 of the Clean Water Act.
The total amount of grants under this section for any one aquifer,
designated under section 1424(e), shall not exceed $4,000,000 in
any one fiscal year.
     (k) ACTIVITIES FUNDED UNDER OTHER LAW.—No funds author-
ized under this øsubsection¿ section may be used to fund activities
funded under other sections of this Act or the Clean Water Act, the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 or other environ-
mental laws.
     (l) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing under this section shall be
construed to amend, supersede or abrogate rights to quantities of
water which have been established by interstate water compacts,
Supreme Court decrees, or State water laws, or any requirement
imposed or right provided under any Federal or State environ-
mental or public health statute.
     (m) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be appropriated
to carry out this section not more than the following amounts:
Fiscal year:                                                                                                   Amount
    1987 .................................................................................................   $10,000,000
    1988 .................................................................................................    15,000,000
    1989 .................................................................................................    17,500,000
    1990 .................................................................................................    17,500,000
    1991 .................................................................................................    17,500,000
    1992–2003 ........................................................................................        15,000,000.
Matching grants under this section may also be used to implement
or update any water quality management plan for a sole or prin-
cipal source aquifer approved (before the date of the enactment of
this section) by the Administrator under section 208 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–6]
  øSEC.      1428. STATE PROGRAMS TO ESTABLISH WELLHEAD PROTECTION
                                   AREAS¿

      STATE PROGRAMS TO ESTABLISH WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS

    SEC. 1428. (a) STATE PROGRAMS.—The Governor ordir Gov-
ernor’s designee of each State shall, within 3 years of the date of
enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986,
adopt and submit to the Administrator a State program to protect
wellhead areas within their jurisdiction from contaminants which
may have any adverse effect on the health of persons. Each State
program under this section shall, at a minimum—
         (1) specify the duties of State agencies, local governmental
    entities, and public water supply systems with respect to the
    development and implementation of programs required by this
    section;
         (2) for each wellhead, determine the wellhead protection
    areas as defined in subsection (e) based on all reasonably avail-
    able hydrogeologic information on ground water flow, recharge
    and discharge and other information the State deems nec-
    essary to adequately determine the wellhead protection area;
         (3) identify within each wellhead protection area all poten-
    tial anthropogenic sources of contaminants which may have
    any adverse effect on the health of persons;
                                 70

          (4) describe a program that contains, as appropriate, tech-
     nical assistance, financial assistance, implementation of control
     measures, education, training, and demonstration projects to
     protect the water supply within wellhead protection areas from
     such contaminants;
          (5) include contingency plans for the location and provision
     of alternate drinking water supplies for each public water sys-
     tem in the event of well or wellfield contamination by such con-
     taminants; and
          (6) include a requirement that consideration be given to all
     potential sources of such contaminants within the expected
     wellhead area of a new water well which serves a public water
     supply system.
     (b) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—To the maximum extent possible,
each State shall establish procedures, including but not limited to
the establishment of technical and citizens’ advisory committees, to
encourage the public to participate in developing the protection
program for wellhead areas and source water assessment programs
under section 1453. Such procedures shall include notice and oppor-
tunity for public hearing on the State program before it is submit-
ted to the Administrator.
     (c) DISAPPROVAL.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—If, in the judgment of the Administrator,
     a State program or portion thereof under subsection (a) is not
     adequate to protect public water systems as required by sub-
     section (a) or a State program under section 1453 or section
     1418(b) does not meet the applicable requirements of section
     1453 or section 1418(b), the Administrator shall disapprove
     such program or portion thereof. A State program developed
     pursuant to subsection (a) shall be deemed to be adequate un-
     less the Administrator determines, within 9 months of the re-
     ceipt of a State program, that such program (or portion there-
     of) is inadequate for the purpose of protecting public water sys-
     tems as required by this section from contaminants that may
     have any adverse effect on the health of persons. A State pro-
     gram developed pursuant to section 1453 or section 1418(b)
     shall be deemed to meet the applicable requirements of section
     1453 or section 1418(b) unless the Administrator determines
     within 9 months of the receipt of the program that such pro-
     gram (or portion thereof) does not meet such requirements. If
     the Administrator determines that a proposed State program
     (or any portion thereof) øis inadequate¿ is disapproved, the Ad-
     ministrator shall submit a written statement of the reasons for
     such determination to the Governor of the State.
          (2) MODIFICATION AND RESUBMISSION.—Within 6 months
     after receipt of the Administrator’s written notice under para-
     graph (1) that any proposed State program (or portion thereof)
     is disapproved, the Governor or Governor’s designee, shall
     modify the program based upon the recommendations of the
     Administrator and resubmit the modified program to the Ad-
     ministrator.
     (d) FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.—After the date 3 years after the en-
actment of this section, no State shall receive funds authorized to
be appropriated under this section except for the purpose of imple-
                                 71

menting the program and requirements of paragraphs (4) and (6)
of subsection (a).
     (e) DEFINITION OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.—As used in
this section, the term ‘‘wellhead protection area’’ means the surface
and subsurface area surrounding a water well or wellfield, supply-
ing a public water system, through which contaminants are reason-
ably likely to move toward and reach such water well or wellfield.
The extent of a wellhead protection area, within a State, necessary
to provide protection from contaminants which may have any ad-
verse effect on the health of persons is to be determined by the
State in the program submitted under subsection (a). Not later
than one year after the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
Amendments of 1986, the Administrator shall issue technical guid-
ance which States may use in making such determinations. Such
guidance may reflect such factors as the radius of influence around
a well or wellfield, the depth of drawdown of the water table by
such well or wellfield at any given point, the time or rate of travel
of various contaminants in various hydrologic conditions, distance
from the well or wellfield, or other factors affecting the likelihood
of contaminants reaching the well or wellfield, taking into account
available engineering pump tests or comparable data, field recon-
naissance, topographic information, and the geology of the forma-
tion in which the well or wellfield is located.
     (f) PROHIBITIONS.—
          (1) ACTIVITIES UNDER OTHER LAWS.—No funds authorized
     to be appropriated under this section may be used to support
     activities authorized by the Federal Water Pollution Control
     Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Comprehensive Environ-
     mental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or
     other sections of this Act.
          (2) INDIVIDUAL SOURCES.—No funds authorized to be ap-
     propriated under this section may be used to bring individual
     sources of contamination into compliance.
     (g) IMPLEMENTATION.—Each State shall make every reasonable
effort to implement the State wellhead area protection program
under this section within 2 years of submitting the program to the
Administrator. Each State shall submit to the Administrator a bi-
ennial status report describing the State’s progress in implement-
ing the program. Such report shall include amendments to the
State program for water wells sited during the biennial period.
     (h) FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Each department, agency, and instru-
mentality of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the
Federal Government having jurisdiction over any potential source
of contaminants identified by a State program pursuant to the pro-
visions of subsection (a)(3) shall be subject to and comply with all
requirements of the State program developed according to sub-
section (a)(4) applicable to such potential source of contaminants,
both substantive and procedural, in the same manner, and to the
same extent, as any other person is subject to such requirements,
including payment of reasonable charges and fees. The President
may exempt any potential source under the jurisdiction of any de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality in the executive branch if the
President determines it to be in the paramount interest of the
United States to do so. No such exemption shall be granted due to
                                                                72

the lack of an appropriation unless the President shall have specifi-
cally requested such appropriation as part of the budgetary process
and the Congress shall have failed to make available such re-
quested appropriations.
     (i) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the provisions of sub-
     section (a) of this section, States in which there are more than
     2,500 active wells at which annular injection is used as of Jan-
     uary 1, 1986, shall include in their State program a certifi-
     cation that a State program exists and is being adequately en-
     forced that provides protection from contaminants which may
     have any adverse effect on the health of persons and which are
     associated with the annular injection or surface disposal of
     brines associated with oil and gas production.
          (2) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
     ‘‘annular injection’’ means the reinjection of brines associated
     with the production of oil or gas between the production and
     surface casings of a conventional oil or gas producing well.
          (3) REVIEW.—The Administrator shall conduct a review of
     each program certified under this subsection.
          (4) DISAPPROVAL.—If a State fails to include the certifi-
     cation required by this subsection or if in the judgment of the
     Administrator the State program certified under this sub-
     section is not being adequately enforced, the Administrator
     shall disapprove the State program submitted under subsection
     (a) of this section.
     (j) COORDINATION WITH OTHER LAWS.—Nothing in this section
shall authorize or require any department, agency, or other instru-
mentality of the Federal Government or State or local government
to apportion, allocate or otherwise regulate the withdrawal or bene-
ficial use of ground or surface waters, so as to abrogate or modify
any existing rights to water established pursuant to State or Fed-
eral law, including interstate compacts.
     (k) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Unless the State pro-
gram is disapproved under this section, the Administrator shall
make grants to the State for not less than 50 or more than 90 per-
cent of the costs incurred by a State (as determined by the Admin-
istrator) in developing and implementing each State program
under this section. For purposes of making such grants there is au-
thorized to be appropriated not more than the following amounts:
Fiscal year:                                                                                                   Amount
    1987 .................................................................................................   $20,000,000
    1988 .................................................................................................    20,000,000
    1989 .................................................................................................    35,000,000
    1990 .................................................................................................    35,000,000
    1991 .................................................................................................    35,000,000
    1992–2003 ........................................................................................        30,000,000.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–7]

                        STATE GROUND WATER PROTECTION GRANTS

    SEC. 1429. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may make a
grant to a State for the development and implementation of a State
program to ensure the coordinated and comprehensive protection of
ground water resources within the State.
                                 73

     (b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996, and an-
nually thereafter, the Administrator shall publish guidance that es-
tablishes procedures for application for State ground water protec-
tion program assistance and that identifies key elements of State
ground water protection programs.
     (c) CONDITIONS OF GRANTS.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall award grants to
     States that submit an application that is approved by the Ad-
     ministrator. The Administrator shall determine the amount of
     a grant awarded pursuant to this paragraph on the basis of an
     assessment of the extent of ground water resources in the State
     and the likelihood that awarding the grant will result in sus-
     tained and reliable protection of ground water quality.
          (2) INNOVATIVE PROGRAM GRANTS.—The Administrator may
     also award a grant pursuant to this subsection for innovative
     programs proposed by a State for the prevention of ground
     water contamination.
          (3) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—The Administrator shall, at a
     minimum, ensure that, for each fiscal year, not less than 1 per-
     cent of funds made available to the Administrator by appro-
     priations to carry out this section are allocated to each State
     that submits an application that is approved by the Adminis-
     trator pursuant to this section.
          (4) LIMITATION ON GRANTS.—No grant awarded by the Ad-
     ministrator may be used for a project to remediate ground
     water contamination.
     (d) AMOUNT OF GRANTS.—The amount of a grant awarded pur-
suant to paragraph (1) shall not exceed 50 percent of the eligible
costs of carrying out the ground water protection program that is
the subject of the grant (as determined by the Administrator) for the
1-year period beginning on the date that the grant is awarded. The
State shall pay a State share to cover the costs of the ground water
protection program from State funds in an amount that is not less
than 50 percent of the cost of conducting the program.
     (e) EVALUATIONS AND REPORTS.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
of 1996, and every 3 years thereafter, the Administrator shall evalu-
ate the State ground water protection programs that are the subject
of grants awarded pursuant to this section and report to the Con-
gress on the status of ground water quality in the United States and
the effectiveness of State programs for ground water protection.
     (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 1997 through 2003.
[42 U.S.C. 300h–8]

                     PART D—EMERGENCY POWERS
                        EMERGENCY POWERS

     SEC. 1431. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, the Administrator, upon receipt of information that a con-
taminant which is present in or is likely to enter a public water
system or an underground source of drinking water may present an
                                    74

imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons,
and that appropriate State and local authorities have not acted to
protect the health of such persons, may take such actions as he
may deem necessary in order to protect the health of such persons.
To the extent he determines it to be practicable in light of such im-
minent endangerment, he shall consult with the State and local au-
thorities in order to confirm the correctness of the information on
which action proposed to be taken under this subsection is based
and to ascertain the action which such authorities are or will be
taking. The action which the Administrator may take may include
(but shall not be limited to) (1) issuing such orders as may be nec-
essary to protect the health of persons who are or may be users of
such system (including travelers), including orders requiring the
provision of alternative water supplies by persons who caused or
contributed to the endangerment, and (2) commencing a civil action
for appropriate relief, including a restraining order or permanent
or temporary injunction.
     (b) Any person who violates or fails or refuses to comply with
any order issued by the Administrator under subsection (a)(1) may,
in an action brought in the appropriate United States district court
to enforce such order, be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed
ø$5,000¿ $15,000 for each day in which such violation occurs or
failure to comply continues.
[42 U.S.C. 300i]

         øSEC.     1432. TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS¿

                   TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS

     SEC. 1432. (a) TAMPERING.—Any person who tampers with a
public water system shall be imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
or fined in accordance with title 18 of the United States Code, or
both.
     (b) ATTEMPT OR THREAT.—Any person who attempts to tamper,
or makes a threat to tamper, with a public drinking water system
shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 years, or fined in accord-
ance with title 18 of the United States Code, or both.
     (c) CIVIL PENALTY.—The Administrator may bring a civil action
in the appropriate United States district court (as determined
under the provisions of title 28 of the United States Code) against
any person who tampers, attempts to tamper, or makes a threat to
tamper with a public water system. The court may impose on such
person a civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for such tampering
or not more than $20,000 for such attempt or threat.
     (d) DEFINITION OF ‘‘TAMPER’’.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘‘tamper’’ means—
          (1) to introduce a contaminant into a public water system
     with the intention of harming persons; or
          (2) to otherwise interfere with the operation of a public
     water system with the intention of harming persons.
[42 U.S.C. 300i–1]
                                  75

                   PART E—GENERAL PROVISIONS
ASSURANCE OF AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF CHEMICALS
            NECESSARY FOR TREATMENT OF WATER

     SEC. 1441. (a) If any person who uses chlorine, activated car-
bon, lime, ammonia, soda ash, potassium permanganate, caustic
soda, or other chemical or substance for the purpose of treating
water in any public water system or in any public treatment works
determines that the amount of such chemical or substance nec-
essary to effectively treat such water is not reasonably available to
him or will not be so available to him when required for the effec-
tive treatment of such water, such person may apply to the Admin-
istrator for a certification (hereinafter in this section referred to as
a ‘‘certification of need’’) that the amount of such chemical or sub-
stance which such person requires to effectively treat such water
is not reasonably available to him or will not be so available when
required for the effective treatment of such water.
     (b)(1) An application for a certification of need shall be in such
form and submitted in such manner as the Administrator may re-
quire and shall (A) specify the persons the applicant determines
are able to provide the chemical or substance with respect to which
the application is submitted, (B) specify the persons from whom the
applicant has sought such chemical or substance, and (C) contain
such other information as the Administrator may require.
     (2) Upon receipt of an application under this section, the Ad-
ministrator shall (A) publish in the Federal Register a notice of the
receipt of the application and a brief summary of it, (B) notify in
writing each person whom the President or his delegate (after con-
sultation with the Administrator) determines could be made subject
to an order required to be issued upon the issuance of the certifi-
cation of need applied for in such application, and (C) provide an
opportunity for the submission of written comments on such appli-
cation. The requirements of the preceding sentence of this para-
graph shall not apply when the Administrator for good cause finds
(and incorporates the finding with a brief statement of reasons
therefor in the order issued) that waiver of such requirements is
necessary in order to protect the public health.
     (3) Within 30 days after—
           (A) the date a notice is published under paragraph (2) in
     the Federal Register with respect to an application submitted
     under this section for the issuance of a certification of need, or
           (B) the date on which such application is received if as au-
     thorized by the second sentence of such paragraph no notice is
     published with respect to such application,
the Administrator shall take action either to issue or deny the issu-
ance of a certification of need.
     (c)(1) If the Administrator finds that the amount of a chemical
or substance necessary for an applicant under an application sub-
mitted under this section to effectively treat water in a public
water system or in a public treatment works is not reasonably
available to the applicant or will not be so available to him when
required for the effective treatment of such water, the Adminis-
trator shall issue a certification of need. Not later than seven days
following the issuance of such certification, the President or his del-
                                 76

egate shall issue an order requiring the provision to such person
of such amounts of such chemical or substance as the Adminis-
trator deems necessary in the certification of need issued for such
person. Such order shall apply to such manufacturers, producers,
processors, distributors, and repackagers of such chemical or sub-
stance as the President or his delegate deems necessary and appro-
priate, except that such order may not apply to any manufacturer,
producer, or processor of such chemical or substance who manufac-
tures, produces, or processes (as the case may be) such chemical or
substance solely for its own use. Persons subject to an order issued
under this section shall be given a reasonable opportunity to con-
sult with the President or his delegate with respect to the imple-
mentation of the order.
     (2) Orders which are to be issued under paragraph (1) to man-
ufacturers, producers, and processors of a chemical or substance
shall be equitably apportioned, as far as practicable, among all
manufacturers, producers, and processors of such chemical or sub-
stance; and orders which are to be issued under paragraph (1) to
distributors and repackagers of a chemical or substance shall be
equitably apportioned, as far as practicable, among all distributors
and repackagers of such chemical or substance. In apportioning or-
ders issued under paragraph (1) to manufacturers, producers, proc-
essors, distributors, and repackagers of chlorine, the President or
his delegate shall, in carrying out the requirements of the preced-
ing sentence, consider—
          (A) the geographical relationships and established commer-
     cial relationships between such manufacturers, producers,
     processors, distributors, and repackagers and the persons for
     whom the orders are issued;
          (B) in the case of orders to be issued to producers of chlo-
     rine, the (i) amount of chlorine historically supplied by each
     such producer to treat water in public water systems and pub-
     lic treatment works, and (ii) share of each such producer of the
     total annual production of chlorine in the United States; and
          (C) such other factors as the President or his delegate may
     determine are relevant to the apportionment of orders in ac-
     cordance with the requirements of the preceding sentence.
     (3) Subject to subsection (f), any person for whom a certifi-
cation of need has been issued under this subsection may upon the
expiration of the order issued under paragraph (1) upon such cer-
tification apply under this section for additional certifications.
     (d) There shall be available as a defense to any action brought
for breach of contract in a Federal or State court arising out of
delay or failure to provide, sell, or offer for sale or exchange a
chemical or substance subject to an order issued pursuant to sub-
section (c)(1), that such delay or failure was caused solely by com-
pliance with such order.
     (e)(1) Whoever knowingly fails to comply with any order issued
pursuant to subsection (c)(1) shall be fined not more than $5,000
for each such failure to comply.
     (2) Whoever fails to comply with any order issued pursuant to
subsection (c)(1) shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than
$2,500 for each such failure to comply.
                                 77

     (3) Whenever the Administrator or the President or his dele-
gate has reason to believe that any person is violating or will vio-
late any order issued pursuant to subsection (c)(1), he may petition
a United States district court to issue a temporary restraining
order or preliminary or permanent injunction (including a manda-
tory injunction) to enforce the provisions of such order.
     (f) No certification of need or order issued under this section
may remain in effect for more than one year.
[42 U.S.C. 300j]

   RESEARCH, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, INFORMATION, TRAINING OF
                         PERSONNEL

     SEC. 1442. (a)(1) The Administrator may conduct research,
studies, and demonstrations relating to the causes, diagnosis, treat-
ment, control, and prevention of physical and mental diseases and
other impairments of man resulting directly or indirectly from con-
taminants in water, or to the provision of a dependably safe supply
of drinking water, including—
          (A) improved methods (i) to identify and measure the exist-
     ence of contaminants in drinking water (including methods
     which may be used by State and local health and water offi-
     cials), and (ii) to identify the source of such contaminants;
          (B) improved methods to identify and measure the health
     effects of contaminants in drinking water;
          (C) new methods of treating raw water to prepare it for
     drinking, so as to improve the efficiency of water treatment
     and to remove contaminants from water;
          (D) improved methods for providing a dependably safe sup-
     ply of drinking water, including improvements in water purifi-
     cation and distribution, and methods of assessing the health
     related hazards of drinking water; and
          (E) improved methods of protecting underground water
     sources of public water systems from contamination.
     ø(2)(A) The Administrator shall, to the maximum extent fea-
sible, provide technical assistance to the States and municipalities
in the establishment and administration of public water system su-
pervision programs (as defined in section 1443(c)(1)).¿
     (2) INFORMATION AND RESEARCH FACILITIES.—In carrying out
this title, the Administrator is authorized to—
          (A) collect and make available information pertaining to re-
     search, investigations, and demonstrations with respect to pro-
     viding a dependably safe supply of drinking water, together
     with appropriate recommendations in connection with the infor-
     mation; and
          (B) make available research facilities of the Agency to ap-
     propriate public authorities, institutions, and individuals en-
     gaged in studies and research relating to this title.
     ø(3)(A) The Administrator shall conduct studies, and make
periodic reports to Congress, on the costs of carrying out regula-
tions prescribed under section 1412.
     ø(B) Not later than eighteen months after the date of enact-
ment of this subparagraph, the Administrator shall submit a report
to Congress which identifies and analyzes—
                                 78

         ø(i) the anticipated costs of compliance with interim and
    revised national primary drinking water regulations and the
    anticipated costs to States and units of local governments in
    implementing such regulations;
         ø(ii) alternative methods of (including alternative treat-
    ment techniques for) compliance with such regulations;
         ø(iii) methods of paying the costs of compliance by public
    water systems with national primary drinking water regula-
    tions, including user charges, State or local taxes or subsidies,
    Federal grants (including planning or construction grants, or
    both), loans, and loan guarantees, and other methods of assist-
    ing in paying the costs of such compliance;
         ø(iv) the advantages and disadvantages of each of the
    methods referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii);
         ø(v) the sources of revenue presently available (and pro-
    jected to be available) to public water systems to meet current
    and future expenses; and
         ø(vi) the costs of drinking water paid by residential and in-
    dustrial consumers in a sample of large, medium, and small
    public water systems and of individually owned wells, and the
    reasons for any differences in such costs.
    øThe report required by this subparagraph shall identify and
    analyze the items required in clauses (i) through (v) separately
    with respect to public water systems serving small commu-
    nities. The report required by this subparagraph shall include
    such recommendations as the Administrator deems appro-
    priate.
    ø(11)¿ (3) The Administrator shall carry out a study of poly-
chlorinated biphenyl contamination of actual or potential sources of
drinking water, contamination of such sources by other substances
known or suspected to be harmful to public health, the effects of
such contamination, and means of removing, treating, or otherwise
controlling such contamination. To assist in carrying out this para-
graph, the Administrator is authorized to make grants to public
agencies and private nonprofit institutions.
    (4) The Administrator shall conduct a survey and study of—
         (A) disposal of waste (including residential waste) which
    may endanger underground water which supplies, or can rea-
    sonably be expected to supply, any public water systems, and
         (B) means of control of such waste disposal.
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this title,
he shall transmit to the Congress the results of such survey and
study, together with such recommendations as he deems appro-
priate.
    (5) The Administrator shall carry out a study of methods of un-
derground injection which do not result in the degradation of un-
derground drinking water sources.
    (6) The Administrator shall carry out a study of methods of
preventing, detecting, and dealing with surface spills of contami-
nants which may degrade underground water sources for public
water systems.
    (7) The Administrator shall carry out a study of virus contami-
nation of drinking water sources and means of control of such con-
tamination.
                                 79

     (8) The Administrator shall carry out a study of the nature and
extent of the impact on underground water which supplies or can
reasonably be expected to supply public water systems of (A) aban-
doned injection or extraction wells; (B) intensive application of pes-
ticides and fertilizers in underground water recharge areas; and (C)
ponds, pools, lagoons, pits, or other surface disposal of contami-
nants in underground water recharge areas.
     (9) The Administrator shall conduct a comprehensive study of
public water supplies and drinking water sources to determine the
nature, extent, sources of and means of control of contamination by
chemicals or other substances suspected of being carcinogenic. Not
later than six months after the date of enactment of this title, he
shall transmit to the Congress the initial results of such study, to-
gether with such recommendations for further review and correc-
tive action as he deems appropriate.
     (10) The Administrator shall carry out a study of the reaction
of chlorine and humic acids and the effects of the contaminants
which result from such reaction on public health and on the safety
of drinking water, including any carcinogenic effect.
     ø(b) In carrying out this title, the Administrator is authorized
to—
          ø(1) collect and make available information pertaining to
     research, investigations, and demonstrations with respect to
     providing a dependably safe supply of drinking water together
     with appropriate recommendations in connection therewith;
          ø(2) make available research facilities of the Agency to ap-
     propriate public authorities, institutions, and individuals en-
     gaged in studies and research relating to the purposes of this
     title;¿
     ø(B)¿ (b) The Administrator is authorized to provide technical
assistance and to make grants to States, or publicly owned water
systems to assist in responding to and alleviating any emergency
situation affecting public water systems (including sources of water
for such systems) which the Administrator determines to present
substantial danger to the public health. Grants provided under this
subparagraph shall be used only to support those actions which (i)
are necessary for preventing, limiting or mitigating danger to the
public health in such emergency situation and (ii) would not, in the
judgment of the Administrator, be taken without such emergency
assistance. The Administrator may carry out the program author-
ized under this subparagraph as part of, and in accordance with
the terms and conditions of, any other program of assistance for en-
vironmental emergencies which the Administrator is authorized to
carry out under any other provision of law. No limitation on appro-
priations for any such other program shall apply to amounts appro-
priated under this subparagraph.
     ø(c) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the
Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1995, and every 5 years
thereafter, the Administrator shall submit a report to Congress on
the present and projected future availability of an adequate and de-
pendable supply of safe drinking water to meet present and pro-
jected future need. Such report shall include an analysis of the fu-
ture demand for drinking water and other competing uses of water,
the availability and use of methods to conserve water or reduce de-
                                                                80

mand, the adequacy of present measures to assure adequate and
dependable supplies of safe drinking water, and the problems (fi-
nancial, legal, or other) which need to be resolved in order to as-
sure the availability of such supplies for the future. Existing infor-
mation and data compiled by the National Water Commission and
others shall be utilized to the extent possible.
     ø(d)¿ (c) The Administrator shall—
          (1) provide training for, and make grants for training (in-
     cluding postgraduate training) of (A) personnel of State agen-
     cies which have primary enforcement responsibility and of
     agencies or units of local government to which enforcement re-
     sponsibilities have been delegated by the State, and (B) person-
     nel who manage or operate public water systems, and
          (2) make grants for postgraduate training of individuals
     (including grants to educational institutions for traineeships)
     for purposes of qualifying such individuals to work as person-
     nel referred to in paragraph (1).
          (3) make grants to, and enter into contracts with, any pub-
     lic agency, educational institution, and any other organization,
     in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Administrator,
     under which he may pay all or a part of the costs (as may be
     determined by the Administrator) of any project or activity
     which is designed—
               (A) to develop, expand, or carry out a program (which
          may combine training education and employment) for
          training persons for occupations involving the public
          health aspects of providing safe drinking water;
               (B) to train inspectors and supervisory personnel to
          train or supervise persons in occupations involving the
          public health aspects of providing safe drinking water; or
               (C) to develop and expand the capability of programs
          of States and municipalities to carry out the purposes of
          this title (other than by carrying out State programs of
          public water system supervision or underground water
          source protection (as defined in section 1443(c))).
     Reasonable fees may be charged for training provided under
     paragraph (1)(B) to persons other than personnel of State or
     local agencies but such training shall be provided to personnel
     of State or local agencies without charge.
     ø(f)¿ (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
the provisions of this section other than subsection (a)(2)(B) and
provisions relating to research $15,000,000 for the fiscal year end-
ing June 30, 1975; $25,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1976; $35,000,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1977;
$17,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1978 and 1979; $21,405,000
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980; $30,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1981; and $35,000,000 for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 1982. There are authorized to be ap-
propriated to carry out subsection (a)(2)(B) $8,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 1978 through 1982. There are authorized to be ap-
propriated to carry out subsection (a)(2)(B) not more than the fol-
lowing amounts:
Fiscal year:                                                                                                 Amount
    1987 .................................................................................................   $7,650,000
    1988 .................................................................................................    7,650,000
                                                                81
      1989 .................................................................................................     8,050,000
      1990 .................................................................................................     8,050,000
      1991 .................................................................................................     8,050,000
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions
of this section (other then subsection (g), subsection (a)(2)(B), and
provisions relating to research), not more than the following
amounts:
Fiscal year:                                                                                                    Amount
    1987 .................................................................................................     $35,600,000
    1988 .................................................................................................      35,600,000
    1989 .................................................................................................      38,020,000
    1990 .................................................................................................      38,020,000
    1991 .................................................................................................      38,020,000
     ø(g)¿ (e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Administrator øis au-
thorized to¿ may provide technical assistance to small public water
systems to enable such systems to achieve and maintain compli-
ance with applicable national primary drinking water regulations.
Such assistance may include circuit-rider and multi-State regional
technical assistance programs, training, and preliminary engineer-
ing østudies¿ evaluations. øThere are authorized to be appropriated
to carry out this subsection $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years
1987 through 1991.¿ The Administrator shall ensure that technical
assistance pursuant to this subsection is available in each State.
Each nonprofit organization receiving assistance under this sub-
section shall consult with the State in which the assistance is to be
expended or otherwise made available before using assistance to un-
dertake activities to carry out this subsection. There are authorized
to be appropriated to the Administrator to be used for such tech-
nical assistance $15,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1997
through 2003.
         øNot less than the greater of—
              ø(1) 3 percent of the amounts appropriated under this
         subsection, or
              ø(2) $280,000
         øshall be utilized for technical assistance to public water
         systems owned or operated by Indian tribes.¿
No portion of any State loan fund established under section 1452
(relating to State loan funds) and no portion of any funds made
available under this subsection may be used for lobbying expenses.
Of the total amount appropriated under this subsection, 3 percent
shall be used for technical assistance to public water systems owned
or operated by Indian Tribes.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–1]

                                     GRANTS FOR STATE PROGRAMS

     SEC. 1443. (a)(1) From allotments made pursuant to paragraph
(4), the Administrator may make grants to States to carry out pub-
lic water system supervision programs.
     (2) No grant may be made under paragraph (1) unless an ap-
plication therefor has been submitted to the Administrator in such
form and manner as he may require. The Administrator may not
approve an application of a State for its first grant under para-
graph (1) unless he determines that the State—
                                 82

          (A) has established or will establish within one year from
     the date of such grant a public water system supervision pro-
     gram, and
          (B) will, within that one year, assume primary enforce-
     ment responsibility for public water systems within the State.
No grant may be made to a State under paragraph (1) for any pe-
riod beginning more than one year after the date of the State’s first
grant unless the State has assumed and maintains primary en-
forcement responsibility for public water systems within the State.
The prohibitions contained in the preceding two sentences shall not
apply to such grants when made to Indian Tribes.
     (3) A grant under paragraph (1) shall be made to cover not
more than 75 per centum of the grant recipient’s costs (as deter-
mined under regulations of the Administrator) in carrying out, dur-
ing the one-year period beginning on the date the grant is made,
a public water system supervision program.
     (4) In each fiscal year the Administrator shall, in accordance
with regulations, allot the sums appropriated for such year under
paragraph (5) among the States on the basis of population, geo-
graphical area, number of public water systems, and other relevant
factors. No State shall receive less than 1 per centum of the annual
appropriation for grants under paragraph (1): Provided, That the
Administrator may, by regulation, reduce such percentage in ac-
cordance with the criteria specified in this paragraph: And pro-
vided further, That such percentage shall not apply to grants allot-
ted to Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands.
     (5) The prohibition contained in the last sentence of paragraph
(2) may be waived by the Administrator with respect to a grant to
a State through fiscal year 1979 but such prohibition may only be
waived if, in the judgment of the Administrator—
          (A) the State is making a diligent effort to assume and
     maintain primary enforcement responsibility for public water
     systems within the State;
          (B) the State has made significant progress toward assum-
     ing and maintaining such primary enforcement responsibility;
     and
          (C) there is reason to believe the State will assume such
     primary enforcement responsibility by October 1, 1979.
The amount of any grant awarded for the fiscal years 1978 and
1979 pursuant to a waiver under this paragraph may not exceed
75 per centum of the allotment which the State would have re-
ceived for such fiscal year if it had assumed and maintained such
primary enforcement responsibility. The remaining 25 per centum
of the amount allotted to such State for such fiscal year shall be
retained by the Administrator, and the Administrator may award
such amount to such State at such time as the State assumes such
responsibility before the beginning of fiscal year 1980. At the begin-
ning of each fiscal years 1979 and 1980 the amounts retained by
the Administrator for any preceding fiscal year and not awarded by
the beginning of fiscal year 1979 or 1980 to the States to which
such amounts were originally allotted may be removed from the
original allotment and reallotted for fiscal year 1979 or 1980 (as
the case may be) to States which have assumed primary enforce-
ment responsibility by the beginning of such fiscal year.
                                  83

     (6) The Administrator shall notify the State of the approval or
disapproval of any application for a grant under this section—
          (A) within ninety days after receipt of such application, or
          (B) not later than the first day of the fiscal year for which
     the grant application is made, whichever is later.
          (7) AUTHORIZATION.—For the purpose of making grants
     under paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated
     $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2003.
          (8) RESERVATION OF FUNDS BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.—If the
     Administrator assumes the primary enforcement responsibility
     of a State public water system supervision program, the Admin-
     istrator may reserve from funds made available pursuant to
     this subsection an amount equal to the amount that would oth-
     erwise have been provided to the State pursuant to this sub-
     section. The Administrator shall use the funds reserved pursu-
     ant to this paragraph to ensure the full and effective adminis-
     tration of a public water system supervision program in the
     State.
          (9) STATE LOAN FUNDS.—
               (A) RESERVATION OF FUNDS.—For any fiscal year for
          which the amount made available to the Administrator by
          appropriations to carry out this subsection is less than the
          amount that the Administrator determines is necessary to
          supplement funds made available pursuant to paragraph
          (8) to ensure the full and effective administration of a pub-
          lic water system supervision program in a State, the Ad-
          ministrator may reserve from the funds made available to
          the State under section 1452 (relating to State loan funds)
          an amount that is equal to the amount of the shortfall.
          This paragraph shall not apply to any State not exercising
          primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems
          as of the date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
          Amendments of 1996.
               (B) DUTY OF ADMINISTRATOR.—If the Administrator re-
          serves funds from the allocation of a State under subpara-
          graph (A), the Administrator shall carry out in the State
          each of the activities that would be required of the State if
          the State had primary enforcement authority under section
          1413.
     (b)(1) From allotments made pursuant to paragraph (4), the
Administrator may make grants to States to carry out underground
water source protection programs.
     (2) No grant may be made under paragraph (1) unless an ap-
plication therefor has been submitted to the Administrator in such
form and manner as he may require. No grant may be made to any
State under paragraph (1) unless the State has assumed primary
enforcement responsibility within two years after the date the Ad-
ministrator promulgates regulations for State underground injec-
tion control programs under section 1421. The prohibition con-
tained in the preceding sentence shall not apply to such grants
when made to Indian Tribes.
     (3) A grant under paragraph (1) shall be made to cover not
more than 75 per centum of the grant recipient’s costs (as deter-
mined under regulations of the Administrator) in carrying out, dur-
                                                                84

ing the one-year period beginning on the date the grant is made,
an underground water source protection program.
    (4) In each fiscal year the Administrator shall, in accordance
with regulations, allot the sums appropriated for such year under
paragraph (5) among the States on the basis of population, geo-
graphical area, and other relevant factors.
    (5) For purposes of making grants under paragraph (1) there
are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1976, $7,500,000 for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1977, $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1978 and 1979,
$7,795,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980,
$18,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, and
$21,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982. For the
purpose of making grants under paragraph (1) there are authorized
to be appropriated not more than the following amounts:
Fiscal year:                                                                                                   Amount
    1987 .................................................................................................   $19,700,000
    1988 .................................................................................................    19,700,000
    1989 .................................................................................................    20,850,000
    1990 .................................................................................................    20,850,000
    1991 .................................................................................................    20,850,000
    1992–2003 ........................................................................................        15,000,000.
        (c) For purposes of this section:
             (1) The term ‘‘public water system supervision program’’
        means a program for the adoption and enforcement of drinking
        water regulations (with such variances and exemptions from
        such regulations under conditions and in a manner which is
        not less stringent than the conditions under, and the manner
        in, which variances and exemptions may be granted under sec-
        tions 1415 and 1416) which are no less stringent than the na-
        tional primary drinking water regulations under section 1412,
        and for keeping records and making reports required by section
        1413(a)(3).
             (2) The term ‘‘underground water source protection pro-
        gram’’ means a program for the adoption and enforcement of
        a program which meets the requirements of regulations under
        section 1421 and for keeping records and making reports re-
        quired by section 1422(b)(1)(A)(ii). Such term includes, where
        applicable, a program which meets the requirements of section
        1425.
        (d) NEW YORK CITY WATERSHED PROTECTION PROGRAM.—
             (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator is authorized to pro-
        vide financial assistance to the State of New York for dem-
        onstration projects implemented as part of the watershed pro-
        gram for the protection and enhancement of the quality of
        source waters of the New York City water supply system, in-
        cluding projects that demonstrate, assess, or provide for com-
        prehensive monitoring and surveillance and projects necessary
        to comply with the criteria for avoiding filtration contained in
        40 CFR 141.71. Demonstration projects which shall be eligible
        for financial assistance shall be certified to the Administrator
        by the State of New York as satisfying the purposes of this sub-
        section. In certifying projects to the Administrator, the State of
        New York shall give priority to monitoring projects that have
        undergone peer review.
                                  85

          (2) REPORT.—Not later than 5 years after the date on which
     the Administrator first provides assistance pursuant to this
     paragraph, the Governor of the State of New York shall submit
     a report to the Administrator on the results of projects assisted.
          (3) MATCHING REQUIREMENTS.—Federal assistance pro-
     vided under this subsection shall not exceed 50 percent of the
     total cost of the protection program being carried out for any
     particular watershed or ground water recharge area.
          (4) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be appro-
     priated to the Administrator to carry out this subsection for
     each of fiscal years 1997 through 2003, $15,000,000 for the pur-
     pose of providing assistance to the State of New York to carry
     out paragraph (1).
[42 U.S.C. 300j–2]

SPECIAL STUDY AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECT GRANTS; GUARANTEED
                          LOANS

    SEC. 1444. (a) The Administrator may make grants to any per-
son for the purposes of—
         (1) assisting in the development and demonstration (in-
    cluding construction) of any project which will demonstrate a
    new or improved method, approach, or technology, for provid-
    ing a dependably safe supply of drinking water to the public;
    and
         (2) assisting in the development and demonstration (in-
    cluding construction) of any project which will investigate and
    demonstrate health implications involved in the reclamation,
    recycling, and reuse of waste waters for drinking and the proc-
    esses and methods for the preparation of safe and acceptable
    drinking water.
    (b) Grants made by the Administrator under this section shall
be subject to the following limitations:
         (1) Grants under this section shall not exceed 662⁄3 per
    centum of the total cost of construction of any facility and 75
    per centum of any other costs, as determined by the Adminis-
    trator.
         (2) Grants under this section shall not be made for any
    project involving the construction or modification of any facili-
    ties for any public water system in a State unless such project
    has been approved by the State agency charged with the re-
    sponsibility for safety of drinking water (or if there is no such
    agency in a State, by the State health authority).
         (3) Grants under this section shall not be made for any
    project unless the Administrator determines, after consulting
    the National Drinking Water Advisory Council, that such
    project will serve a useful purpose relating to the development
    and demonstration of new or improved techniques, methods, or
    technologies for the provision of safe water to the public for
    drinking.
         (4) Priority for grants under this section shall be given
    where there are known or potential public health hazards
    which require advanced technology for the removal of particles
                                 86

     which are too small to be removed by ordinary treatment tech-
     nology.
     (c) For the purposes of making grants under subsections (a)
and (b) of this section there are authorized to be appropriated
$7,500,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975; and $7,500,000
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1976; and $10,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1977.
     (d) The Administrator during the fiscal years ending June 30,
1975, and June 30, 1976, shall carry out a program of guaranteeing
loans made by private lenders to small public water systems for the
purpose of enabling such systems to meet national primary drink-
ing water regulations prescribed under section 1412. No such guar-
antee may be made with respect to a system unless (1) such system
cannot reasonably obtain financial assistance necessary to comply
with such regulations from any other source, and (2) the Adminis-
trator determines that any facilities constructed with a loan guar-
anteed under this subsection is not likely to be made obsolete by
subsequent changes in primary regulations. The aggregate amount
of indebtedness guaranteed with respect to any system may not ex-
ceed $50,000. The aggregate amount of indebtedness guaranteed
under this subsection may not exceed $50,000,000. The Adminis-
trator shall prescribe regulations to carry out this subsection.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–3]
                     RECORDS AND INSPECTIONS

     SEC. 1445. (a)(1)(A) øEvery person who is a supplier of water,
who is or may be otherwise subject to a primary drinking water
regulation prescribed under section 1412 or to an applicable under-
ground injection control program (as defined in section 1422(C)),
who is or may be subject to the permit requirement of section 1424
or to an order issued under section 1441, or who is a grantee¿
Every person who is subject to any requirement of this title or who
is a grantee, shall establish and maintain such records, make such
reports, conduct such monitoring, and provide such information as
the Administrator may reasonably require by regulation to assist
the Administrator in establishing regulations under this title, in
determining whether such person has acted or is acting in compli-
ance with this title, in administering any program of financial as-
sistance under this title, in evaluating the health risks of unregu-
lated contaminants, or in advising the public of such risks. In re-
quiring a public water system to monitor under this subsection, the
Administrator may take into consideration the system size and the
contaminants likely to be found in the system’s drinking water.
     (B) Every person who is subject to a national primary drinking
water regulation under section 1412 shall provide such information
as the Administrator may reasonably require, after consultation
with the State in which such person is located if such State has pri-
mary enforcement responsibility for public water systems, on a case-
by-case basis, to determine whether such person has acted or is act-
ing in compliance with this title.
     (C) Every person who is subject to a national primary drinking
water regulation under section 1412 shall provide such information
as the Administrator may reasonably require to assist the Adminis-
trator in establishing regulations under section 1412 of this title,
                                  87

after consultation with States and suppliers of water. The Adminis-
trator may not require under this subparagraph the installation of
treatment equipment or process changes, the testing of treatment
technology, or the analysis or processing of monitoring samples, ex-
cept where the Administrator provides the funding for such activi-
ties. Before exercising this authority, the Administrator shall first
seek to obtain the information by voluntary submission.
     (D) The Administrator shall not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of this subparagraph, after consultation with
public health experts, representatives of the general public, and offi-
cials of State and local governments, review the monitoring require-
ments for not fewer than 12 contaminants identified by the Admin-
istrator, and promulgate any necessary modifications.
     ø(2) Not later than 18 months after enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986, the Administrator shall
promulgate regulations requiring every public water system to con-
duct a monitoring program for unregulated contaminants. The reg-
ulations shall require monitoring of drinking water supplied by the
system and shall vary the frequency and schedule of monitoring re-
quirements for systems based on the number of persons served by
the system, the source of supply, and the contaminants likely to be
found. Each system shall be required to monitor at least once every
5 years after the effective date of the Administrator’s regulations
unless the Administrator requires more frequent monitoring.
     ø(3) Regulations under paragraph (2) shall list unregulated
contaminants for which systems may be required to monitor, and
shall include criteria by which the primary enforcement authority
in each State could show cause for addition or deletion of contami-
nants from the designated list. The primary State enforcement au-
thority may delete contaminants for an individual system, in ac-
cordance with these criteria, after obtaining approval of assessment
of the contaminants potentially to be found in the system. The Ad-
ministrator shall approve or disapprove such an assessment sub-
mitted by a State within 60 days. A State may add contaminants,
in accordance with these criteria, without making an assessment,
but in no event shall such additions increase Federal expenditures
authorized by this section.
          ø(4) Public water systems conducting monitoring of un-
     regulated contaminants pursuant to this section shall provide
     the results of such monitoring to the primary enforcement au-
     thority.
          ø(5) Notification of the availability of the results of the
     monitoring programs required under paragraph (2), and notifi-
     cation of the availability of the results of the monitoring pro-
     gram referred to in paragraph (6), shall be given to the persons
     served by the system and the Administrator.
          ø(6) The Administrator may waive the monitoring require-
     ment under paragraph (2) for a system which has conducted a
     monitoring program after January 1, 1983, if the Adminis-
     trator determines the program to have been consistent with
     the regulations promulgated under this section.
          ø(7) Any system supplying less than 150 service connec-
     tions shall be treated as complying with this subsection if such
                             88

system provides water samples or the opportunity for sampling
according to rules established by the Administrator.
     ø(8) There are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000
in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1987 to remain avail-
able until expended to carry out the provisions of this sub-
section.¿
     (2) MONITORING PROGRAM FOR UNREGULATED CONTAMI-
NANTS.—
         (A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Administrator shall pro-
     mulgate regulations establishing the criteria for a monitor-
     ing program for unregulated contaminants. The regulations
     shall require monitoring of drinking water supplied by
     public water systems and shall vary the frequency and
     schedule for monitoring requirements for systems based on
     the number of persons served by the system, the source of
     supply, and the contaminants likely to be found, ensuring
     that only a representative sample of systems serving 10,000
     persons or fewer are required to monitor.
         (B) MONITORING PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN UNREGULATED
     CONTAMINANTS.—
              (i) INITIAL LIST.—Not later than 3 years after the
         date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
         Amendments of 1996 and every 5 years thereafter, the
         Administrator shall issue a list pursuant to subpara-
         graph (A) of not more than 30 unregulated contami-
         nants to be monitored by public water systems and to
         be included in the national drinking water occurrence
         data base maintained pursuant to subsection (g).
              (ii) GOVERNORS’ PETITION.—The Administrator
         shall include among the list of contaminants for which
         monitoring is required under this paragraph each con-
         taminant recommended in a petition signed by the
         Governor of each of 7 or more States, unless the Ad-
         ministrator determines that the action would prevent
         the listing of other contaminants of a higher public
         health concern.
         (C) MONITORING PLAN FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM SYS-
     TEMS.—
              (i) IN GENERAL.—Based on the regulations promul-
         gated by the Administrator, each State may develop a
         representative monitoring plan to assess the occurrence
         of unregulated contaminants in public water systems
         that serve a population of 10,000 or fewer in that State.
         The plan shall require monitoring for systems rep-
         resentative of different sizes, types, and geographic lo-
         cations in the State.
              (ii) GRANTS FOR SMALL SYSTEM COSTS.—From
         funds reserved under section 1452(o) or appropriated
         under subparagraph (H), the Administrator shall pay
         the reasonable cost of such testing and laboratory anal-
         ysis as are necessary to carry out monitoring under the
         plan.
         (D) MONITORING RESULTS.—Each public water system
     that conducts monitoring of unregulated contaminants pur-
                                  89

          suant to this paragraph shall provide the results of the
          monitoring to the primary enforcement authority for the
          system.
               (E) NOTIFICATION.—Notification of the availability of
          the results of monitoring programs required under para-
          graph (2)(A) shall be given to the persons served by the sys-
          tem.
               (F) WAIVER OF MONITORING REQUIREMENT.—The Ad-
          ministrator shall waive the requirement for monitoring for
          a contaminant under this paragraph in a State, if the State
          demonstrates that the criteria for listing the contaminant
          do not apply in that State.
               (G) ANALYTICAL METHODS.—The State may use screen-
          ing methods approved by the Administrator under sub-
          section (i) in lieu of monitoring for particular contaminants
          under this paragraph.
               (H) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are
          authorized to be appropriated to carry out this paragraph
          $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1997 through 2003.
     (b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Administrator,
or representatives of the Administrator duly designated by him,
upon presenting appropriate credentials and a written notice to
any supplier of water or other person subject to (A) a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation prescribed under section 1412, (B)
an applicable underground injection control program, or (C) any re-
quirement to monitor an unregulated contaminant pursuant to sub-
section (a), or person in charge of any of the property of such sup-
plier or other person referred to in clause (A), (B), or (C), is author-
ized to enter any establishment, facility, or other property of such
supplier or other person in order to determine whether such sup-
plier or other person has acted or is acting in compliance with this
title, including for this purpose, inspection, at reasonable times, of
records, files, papers, processes, controls, and facilities, or in order
to test any feature of a public water system, including its raw
water source. The Administrator or the Comptroller General (or
any representative designated by either) shall have access for the
purpose of audit and examination to any records, reports, or infor-
mation of a grantee which are required to be maintained under
subsection (a) or which are pertinent to any financial assistance
under this title.
     (2) No entry may be made under the first sentence of para-
graph (1) in an establishment, facility, or other property of a sup-
plier of water or other person subject to a national primary drink-
ing water regulation if the establishment, facility, or other property
is located in a State which has primary enforcement responsibility
for public water systems unless, before written notice of such entry
is made, the Administrator (or his representative) notifies the State
agency charged with responsibility for safe drinking water of the
reasons for such entry. The Administrator shall, upon a showing by
the State agency that such an entry will be detrimental to the ad-
ministration of the State’s program of primary enforcement respon-
sibility, take such showing into consideration in determining
whether to make such entry. No State agency which receives notice
under this paragraph of an entry proposed to be made under para-
                                 90

graph (1) may use the information contained in the notice to inform
the person whose property is proposed to be entered of the pro-
posed entry; and if a State agency so uses such information, notice
to the agency under this paragraph is not required until such time
as the Administrator determines the agency has provided him sat-
isfactory assurances that it will no longer so use information con-
tained in a notice under this paragraph.
     (c) Whoever fails or refuses to comply with any requirement of
subsection (a) or to allow the Administrator, the Comptroller Gen-
eral, or representatives of either, to enter and conduct any audit
or inspection authorized by subsection (b) shall be subject to a civil
penalty of not to exceed $25,000.
     (d)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), upon a showing satisfactory to
the Administrator by any person that any information required
under this section from such person, if made public, would divulge
trade secrets or secret processes of such person, the Administrator
shall consider such information confidential in accordance with the
purposes of section 1905 of title 18 of the United States Code. If
the applicant fails to make a showing satisfactory to the Adminis-
trator, the Administrator shall give such applicant thirty days’ no-
tice before releasing the information to which the application re-
lates (unless the public health or safety requires an earlier release
of such information).
     (2) Any information required under this section (A) may be dis-
closed to other officers, employees, or authorized representatives of
the United States concerned with carrying out this title or to com-
mittees of the Congress, or when relevant in any proceeding under
this title, and (B) shall be disclosed to the extent it deals with the
level of contaminants in drinking water. For purposes of this sub-
section the term ‘‘information required under this section’’ means
any papers, books, documents, or information, or any particular
part thereof, reported to or otherwise obtained by the Adminis-
trator under this section.
     (e) For purposes of this section, (1) the term ‘‘grantee’’ means
any person who applies for or receives financial assistance, by
grant, contract, or loan guarantee under this title, and (2) the term
‘‘person’’ includes a Federal agency.
     (f) INFORMATION REGARDING DRINKING WATER COOLERS.—The
Administrator may utilize the authorities of this section for pur-
poses of part F. Any person who manufactures, imports, sells, or
distributes drinking water coolers in interstate commerce shall be
treated as a supplier of water for purposes of applying the provi-
sions of this section in the case of persons subject to part F.
     (g) OCCURRENCE DATA BASE.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years after the date of
     enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996,
     the Administrator shall assemble and maintain a national
     drinking water contaminant occurrence data base, using infor-
     mation on the occurrence of both regulated and unregulated
     contaminants in public water systems obtained under sub-
     section (a)(1)(A) or subsection (a)(2) and reliable information
     from other public and private sources.
          (2) PUBLIC INPUT.—In establishing the occurrence data
     base, the Administrator shall solicit recommendations from the
                                 91

     Science Advisory Board, the States, and other interested parties
     concerning the development and maintenance of a national
     drinking water contaminant occurrence data base, including
     such issues as the structure and design of the data base, data
     input parameters and requirements, and the use and interpreta-
     tion of data.
          (3) USE.—The data shall be used by the Administrator in
     making determinations under section 1412(b)(1) with respect to
     the occurrence of a contaminant in drinking water at a level of
     public health concern.
          (4) PUBLIC RECOMMENDATIONS.—The Administrator shall
     periodically solicit recommendations from the appropriate offi-
     cials of the National Academy of Sciences and the States, and
     any person may submit recommendations to the Administrator,
     with respect to contaminants that should be included in the na-
     tional drinking water contaminant occurrence data base, in-
     cluding recommendations with respect to additional unregu-
     lated contaminants that should be listed under subsection
     (a)(2). Any recommendation submitted under this clause shall
     be accompanied by reasonable documentation that—
               (A) the contaminant occurs or is likely to occur in
          drinking water; and
               (B) the contaminant poses a risk to public health.
          (5) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The information from the data
     base shall be available to the public in readily accessible form.
          (6) REGULATED CONTAMINANTS.—With respect to each con-
     taminant for which a national primary drinking water regula-
     tion has been established, the data base shall include informa-
     tion on the detection of the contaminant at a quantifiable level
     in public water systems (including detection of the contaminant
     at levels not constituting a violation of the maximum contami-
     nant level for the contaminant).
          (7) UNREGULATED CONTAMINANTS.—With respect to con-
     taminants for which a national primary drinking water regula-
     tion has not been established, the data base shall include—
               (A) monitoring information collected by public water
          systems that serve a population of more than 10,000, as re-
          quired by the Administrator under subsection (a);
               (B) monitoring information collected from a representa-
          tive sampling of public water systems that serve a popu-
          lation of 10,000 or fewer; and
               (C) other reliable and appropriate monitoring informa-
          tion on the occurrence of the contaminants in public water
          systems that is available to the Administrator.
     (h) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION ON SMALL SYSTEM TECH-
NOLOGIES.—For purposes of sections 1412(b)(4)(E) and 1415(e) (re-
lating to small system variance program), the Administrator may
request information on the characteristics of commercially available
treatment systems and technologies, including the effectiveness and
performance of the systems and technologies under various operat-
ing conditions. The Administrator may specify the form, content,
and submission date of information to be submitted by manufactur-
ers, States, and other interested persons for the purpose of consider-
                                  92

ing the systems and technologies in the development of regulations
or guidance under sections 1412(b)(4)(E) and 1415(e).
     (i) SCREENING METHODS.—The Administrator shall review new
analytical methods to screen for regulated contaminants and may
approve such methods as are more accurate or cost-effective than es-
tablished reference methods for use in compliance monitoring.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–4]

             NATIONAL DRINKING WATER ADVISORY COUNCIL

     SEC. 1446. (a) There is established a National Drinking Water
Advisory Council which shall consist of fifteen members appointed
by the Administrator after consultation with the Secretary. Five
members shall be appointed from the general public; five members
shall be appointed from appropriate State and local agencies con-
cerned with water hygiene and public water supply; and five mem-
bers shall be appointed from representatives of private organiza-
tions or groups demonstrating an active interest in the field of
water hygiene and public water supply, of which two such members
shall be associated with small, rural public water systems. Each
member of the Council shall hold office for a term of three years,
except that—
          (1) any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior
     to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was ap-
     pointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term; and
          (2) the terms of the members first taking office shall expire
     as follows: Five shall expire three years after the date of enact-
     ment of this title, five shall expire two years after such date,
     and five shall expire one year after such date, as designated
     by the Administrator at the time of appointment.
The members of the Council shall be eligible for reappointment.
     (b) The Council shall advise, consult with, and make rec-
ommendations to, the Administrator on matters relating to activi-
ties, functions, and policies of the Agency under this title.
     (c) Members of the Council appointed under this section shall,
while attending meetings or conferences of the Council or otherwise
engaged in business of the Council, receive compensation and al-
lowances at a rate to be fixed by the Administrator, but not exceed-
ing the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect
for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule for each day (including
traveltime) during which they are engaged in the actual perform-
ance of duties vested in the Council. While away from their homes
or regular places of business in the performance of services for the
Council, members of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as
persons employed intermittently in the Government service are al-
lowed expenses under section 5703(b) of title 5 of the United States
Code.
     (d) Section 14(a) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (relat-
ing to termination) shall not apply to the Council.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–5]
                                  93

                         FEDERAL AGENCIES

     SEC. 1447. ø(a) Each Federal agency (1) having jurisdiction
over any federally owned or maintained public water system or (2)
engaged in any activity resulting, or which may result in, under-
ground injection which endangers drinking water (within the
meaning of section 1421(d)(2)) shall be subject to, and comply with,
all Federal, State, and local requirements, administrative authori-
ties, and process and sanctions respecting the provision of safe
drinking water and respecting any underground injection program
in the same manner, and to the same extent, as any nongovern-
mental entity. The preceding sentence shall apply (A) to any re-
quirement whether substantive or procedural (including any rec-
ordkeeping or reporting requirement, any requirement respecting
permits, and any other requirement whatsoever), (B) to the exer-
cise of any Federal, State, or local administrative authority, and
(C) to any process or sanction, whether enforced in Federal, State,
or local courts or in any other manner. This subsection shall apply,
notwithstanding any immunity of such agencies, under any law or
rule of law. No officer, agent, or employee of the United States
shall be personally liable for any civil penalty under this title with
respect to any act or omission within the scope of his official duties.
     ø(b) The Administrator shall waive compliance with subsection
(a) upon request of the Secretary of Defense and upon a determina-
tion by the President that the requested waiver is necessary in the
interest of national security. The Administrator shall maintain a
written record of the basis upon which such waiver was granted
and make such record available for in camera examination when
relevant in a judicial proceeding under this title. Upon the issuance
of such a waiver, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal
Register a notice that the waiver was granted for national security
purposes, unless, upon the request of the Secretary of Defense, the
Administrator determines to omit such publication because the
publication itself would be contrary to the interests of national se-
curity, in which event the Administrator shall submit notice to the
Armed Services Committee of the Senate and House of Representa-
tives.¿
     (a) IN GENERAL.—Each department, agency, and instrumental-
ity of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Federal
Government—
          (1) owning or operating any facility in a wellhead protec-
     tion area;
          (2) engaged in any activity at such facility resulting, or
     which may result, in the contamination of water supplies in any
     such area;
          (3) owning or operating any public water system; or
          (4) engaged in any activity resulting, or which may result
     in, underground injection which endangers drinking water
     (within the meaning of section 1421(d)(2)),
shall be subject to, and comply with, all Federal, State, interstate,
and local requirements, both substantive and procedural (including
any requirement for permits or reporting or any provisions for in-
junctive relief and such sanctions as may be imposed by a court to
enforce such relief), respecting the protection of such wellhead areas,
                                  94

respecting such public water systems, and respecting any under-
ground injection in the same manner and to the same extent as any
person is subject to such requirements, including the payment of
reasonable service charges. The Federal, State, interstate, and local
substantive and procedural requirements referred to in this sub-
section include, but are not limited to, all administrative orders and
all civil and administrative penalties and fines, regardless of
whether such penalties or fines are punitive or coercive in nature or
are imposed for isolated, intermittent, or continuing violations. The
United States hereby expressly waives any immunity otherwise ap-
plicable to the United States with respect to any such substantive
or procedural requirement (including, but not limited to, any in-
junctive relief, administrative order or civil or administrative pen-
alty or fine referred to in the preceding sentence, or reasonable serv-
ice charge). The reasonable service charges referred to in this sub-
section include, but are not limited to, fees or charges assessed in
connection with the processing and issuance of permits, renewal of
permits, amendments to permits, review of plans, studies, and other
documents, and inspection and monitoring of facilities, as well as
any other nondiscriminatory charges that are assessed in connection
with a Federal, State, interstate, or local regulatory program re-
specting the protection of wellhead areas or public water systems or
respecting any underground injection. Neither the United States,
nor any agent, employee, or officer thereof, shall be immune or ex-
empt from any process or sanction of any State or Federal Court
with respect to the enforcement of any such injunctive relief. No
agent, employee, or officer of the United States shall be personally
liable for any civil penalty under any Federal, State, interstate, or
local law concerning the protection of wellhead areas or public
water systems or concerning underground injection with respect to
any act or omission within the scope of the official duties of the
agent, employee, or officer. An agent, employee, or officer of the
United States shall be subject to any criminal sanction (including,
but not limited to, any fine or imprisonment) under any Federal or
State requirement adopted pursuant to this title, but no department,
agency, or instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial
branch of the Federal Government shall be subject to any such sanc-
tion. The President may exempt any facility of any department,
agency, or instrumentality in the executive branch from compliance
with such a requirement if he determines it to be in the paramount
interest of the United States to do so. No such exemption shall be
granted due to lack of appropriation unless the President shall have
specifically requested such appropriation as a part of the budgetary
process and the Congress shall have failed to make available such
requested appropriation. Any exemption shall be for a period not in
excess of 1 year, but additional exemptions may be granted for peri-
ods not to exceed 1 year upon the President’s making a new deter-
mination. The President shall report each January to the Congress
all exemptions from the requirements of this section granted during
the preceding calendar year, together with his reason for granting
each such exemption.
     (b) ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY ORDERS.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—If the Administrator finds that a Federal
     agency has violated an applicable requirement under this title,
                                   95

     the Administrator may issue a penalty order assessing a pen-
     alty against the Federal agency.
          (2) PENALTIES.—The Administrator may, after notice to the
     agency, assess a civil penalty against the agency in an amount
     not to exceed $25,000 per day per violation.
          (3) PROCEDURE.—Before an administrative penalty order is-
     sued under this subsection becomes final, the Administrator
     shall provide the agency an opportunity to confer with the Ad-
     ministrator and shall provide the agency notice and an oppor-
     tunity for a hearing on the record in accordance with chapters
     5 and 7 of title 5, United States Code.
          (4) PUBLIC REVIEW.—
               (A) IN GENERAL.—Any interested person may obtain re-
          view of an administrative penalty order issued under this
          subsection. The review may be obtained in the United
          States District Court for the District of Columbia or in the
          United States District Court for the district in which the
          violation is alleged to have occurred by the filing of a com-
          plaint with the court within the 30-day period beginning on
          the date the penalty order becomes final. The person filing
          the complaint shall simultaneously send a copy of the com-
          plaint by certified mail to the Administrator and the Attor-
          ney General.
               (B) RECORD.—The Administrator shall promptly file in
          the court a certified copy of the record on which the order
          was issued.
               (C) STANDARD OF REVIEW.—The court shall not set
          aside or remand the order unless the court finds that there
          is not substantial evidence in the record, taken as a whole,
          to support the finding of a violation or that the assessment
          of the penalty by the Administrator constitutes an abuse of
          discretion.
               (D) PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.—The
          court may not impose an additional civil penalty for a vio-
          lation that is subject to the order unless the court finds that
          the assessment constitutes an abuse of discretion by the Ad-
          ministrator.
     (c) LIMITATION ON STATE USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED FROM
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—Unless a State law in effect on the date of
enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 or
a State constitution requires the funds to be used in a different
manner, all funds collected by a State from the Federal Government
from penalties and fines imposed for violation of any substantive or
procedural requirement referred to in subsection (a) shall be used by
the State only for projects designed to improve or protect the envi-
ronment or to defray the costs of environmental protection or en-
forcement.
     ø(c)¿ (d)(1) Nothing in the Safe Drinking Water Amendments
of 1977 shall be construed to alter or affect the status of American
Indian lands or water rights nor to waive any sovereignty over In-
dian lands guaranteed by treaty or statute.
     (2) For the purposes of this Act, the term ‘‘Federal agency’’
shall not be construed to refer to or include any American Indian
                                 96

tribe, nor to the Secretary of the Interior in his capacity as trustee
of Indian lands.
     (e) WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT.—The Secretary of the Army shall
not pass the cost of any penalty assessed under this title on to any
customer, user, or other purchaser of drinking water from the Wash-
ington Aqueduct system, including finished water from the
Dalecarlia or McMillan treatment plant.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–6]
                          JUDICIAL REVIEW

     SEC. 1448. (a) A petition for review of—
          (1) actions pertaining to the establishment of national pri-
     mary drinking water regulations (including maximum contami-
     nant level goals) may be filed only in the United States Court
     of Appeals for the District of Columbia circuit; and
          (2) any other final action of the Administrator under this
     Act may be filed in the circuit in which the petitioner resides
     or transacts business which is directly affected by the action.
Any such petition shall be filed within the 45-day period beginning
on the date of the promulgation of the regulation øor issuance of
the order¿ or any other final Agency action with respect to which
review is sought or on the date of the determination with respect
to which review is sought, and may be filed after the expiration of
such 45-day period if the petition is based solely on grounds arising
after the expiration of such period. Action of the Administrator
with respect to which review could have been obtained under this
subsection shall not be subject to judicial review in any civil or
criminal proceeding for enforcement or in any civil action to enjoin
enforcement. In any petition concerning the assessment of a civil
penalty pursuant to section 1414(g)(3)(B), the petitioner shall simul-
taneously send a copy of the complaint by certified mail to the Ad-
ministrator and the Attorney General. The court shall set aside and
remand the penalty order if the court finds that there is not sub-
stantial evidence in the record to support the finding of a violation
or that the assessment of the penalty by the Administrator con-
stitutes an abuse of discretion.
     (b) The United States district courts shall have jurisdiction of
actions brought to review (1) the granting of, or the refusing to
grant, a variance or exemption under section 1415 or 1416 or (2)
the requirements of any schedule prescribed for a variance or ex-
emption under such section or the failure to prescribe such a sched-
ule. Such an action may only be brought upon a petition for review
filed with the court within the 45-day period beginning on the date
the action sought to be reviewed is taken or, in the case of a peti-
tion to review the refusal to grant a variance or exemption or the
failure to prescribe a schedule, within the 45-day period beginning
on the date action is required to be taken on the variance, exemp-
tion, or schedule, as the case may be. A petition for such review
may be filed after the expiration of such period if the petition is
based solely on grounds arising after the expiration of such period.
Action with respect to which review could have been obtained
under this subsection shall not be subject to judicial review in any
civil or criminal proceeding for enforcement or in any civil action
to enjoin enforcement.
                                   97

     (c) In any judicial proceeding in which review is sought of a de-
termination under this title required to be made on the record after
notice and opportunity for hearing, if any party applies to the court
for leave to adduce additional evidence and shows to the satisfac-
tion of the court that such additional evidence is material and that
there were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evi-
dence in the proceeding before the Administrator, the court may
order such additional evidence (and evidence in rebuttal thereof) to
be taken before the Administrator, in such manner and upon such
terms and conditions as the court may deem proper. The Adminis-
trator may modify his findings as to the facts, or make new find-
ings, by reason of the additional evidence so taken, and he shall
file such modified or new findings, and his recommendation, if any,
for the modification or setting aside of his original determination,
with the return of such additional evidence.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–7]
                        CITIZEN’S CIVIL ACTION

     SEC. 1449. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this sec-
tion, any person may commence a civil action on his own behalf—
          (1) against any person (including (A) the United States,
     and (B) any other governmental instrumentality or agency to
     the extent permitted by the eleventh amendment to the Con-
     stitution) who is alleged to be in violation of any requirement
     prescribed by or under this titleø, or¿;
          (2) against the Administrator where there is alleged a fail-
     ure of the Administrator to perform any act or duty under this
     title which is not discretionary with the Administratorø.¿; or
          (3) for the collection of a penalty by the United States Gov-
     ernment (and associated costs and interest) against any Federal
     agency that fails, by the date that is 18 months after the effec-
     tive date of a final order to pay a penalty assessed by the Ad-
     ministrator under section 1429(b), to pay the penalty.
No action may be brought under paragraph (1) against a public
water system for a violation of a requirement prescribed by or
under this title which occurred within the 27-month period begin-
ning on the first day of the month in which this title is enacted.
The United States district courts shall have jurisdiction, without
regard to the amount in controversy or the citizenship of the par-
ties, to enforce in an action brought under this subsection any re-
quirement prescribed by or under this title or to order the Adminis-
trator to perform an act, or duty described in paragraph (2), as the
case may be.
     (b) No civil action may be commenced—
          (1) under subsection (a)(1) of this section respecting viola-
     tion of a requirement prescribed by or under this title—
               (A) prior to sixty days after the plaintiff has given no-
          tice of such violation (i) to the Administrator, (ii) to any al-
          leged violator of such requirement and (iii) to the State in
          which the violation occurs, or
               (B) if the Administrator, the Attorney General, or the
          State has commenced and is diligently prosecuting a civil
          action in a court of the United States to require compli-
          ance with such requirement, but in any such action in a
                                  98

          court of the United States any person may intervene as a
          matter of right; or
          (2) under subsection (a)(2) of this section prior to sixty
     days after the plaintiff has given notice of such action to the
     Administratorø.¿; or
          (3) under subsection (a)(3) prior to 60 days after the plain-
     tiff has given notice of such action to the Attorney General and
     to the Federal agency.
Notice required by this subsection shall be given in such manner
as the Administrator shall prescribe by regulation. No person may
commence a civil action under subsection (a) to require a State to
prescribe a schedule under section 1415 or 1416 for a variance or
exemption, unless such person shows to the satisfaction of the
court that the State has in a substantial number of cases failed to
prescribe such schedules.
     (c) In any action under this section, the Administrator or the
Attorney General, if not a party, may intervene as a matter of
right.
     (d) The court, in issuing any final order in any action brought
under subsection (a) of this section, may award costs of litigation
(including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees) to any
party whenever the court determines such an award is appropriate.
The court may, if a temporary restraining order or preliminary in-
junction is sought, require the filing of a bond or equivalent secu-
rity in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
     (e) Nothing in this section shall restrict any right which any
person (or class of persons) may have under any statute or common
law to seek enforcement of any requirement prescribed by or under
this title or to seek any other relief. Nothing in this section or in
any other law of the United States shall be construed to prohibit,
exclude, or restrict any State or local government from—
          (1) bringing any action or obtaining any remedy or sanc-
     tion in any State or local court, or
          (2) bringing any administrative action or obtaining any ad-
     ministrative remedy or sanction,
against any agency of the United States under State or local law
to enforce any requirement respecting the provision of safe drink-
ing water or respecting any underground injection control program.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize judicial re-
view of regulations or orders of the Administrator under this title,
except as provided in section 1448. For provisions providing for ap-
plication of certain requirements to such agencies in the same man-
ner as to nongovernmental entities, see section 1447.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–8]

                        GENERAL PROVISIONS

     SEC. 1450. (a)(1) The Administrator is authorized to prescribe
such regulations as are necessary or appropriate to carry out his
functions under this title.
     (2) The Administrator may delegate any of his functions under
this title (other than prescribing regulations) to any officer or em-
ployee of the Agency.
                                  99

     (b) The Administrator, with the consent of the head of any
other agency of the United States, may utilize such officers and
employees of such agency as he deems necessary to assist him in
carrying out the purposes of this title.
     (c) Upon the request of a State or interstate agency, the Ad-
ministrator may assign personnel of the Agency to such State or
interstate agency for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of
this title.
     (d)(1) The Administrator may make payments of grants under
this title (after necessary adjustment on account of previously
made underpayments or overpayments) in advance or by way of re-
imbursement, and in such installments and on such conditions as
he may determine.
     (2) Financial assistance may be made available in the form of
grants only to individuals and nonprofit agencies or institutions.
For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘‘nonprofit agency or insti-
tution’’ means an agency or institution no part of the net earnings
of which inure, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
     (e) The Administrator shall take such action as may be nec-
essary to assure compliance with provisions of the Act of March 3,
1931 (known as the Davis-Bacon Act; 40 U.S.C. 276a–276a(5)). The
Secretary of Labor shall have, with respect to the labor standards
specified in this subsection, the authority and functions set forth in
Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (15 F.R. 3176; 64 Stat.
1267) and section 2 of the Act of June 13, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 276c).
     (f) The Administrator shall request the Attorney General to ap-
pear and represent him in any civil action instituted under this
title to which the Administrator is a party. Unless, within a rea-
sonable time, the Attorney General notifies the Administrator that
he will appear in such action, attorneys appointed by the Adminis-
trator shall appear and represent him.
     (g) The provisions of this title shall not be construed as affect-
ing any authority of the Administrator under part G of title III of
this Act.
     (h) Not later than April 1 of each year, the Administrator shall
submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives a report respecting the activities
of the Agency under this title and containing such recommenda-
tions for legislation as he considers necessary. The report of the
Administrator under this subsection which is due not later than
April 1, 1975, and each subsequent report of the Administrator
under this subsection shall include a statement on the actual and
anticipated cost to public water systems in each State of compli-
ance with the requirements of this title. The Office of Management
and Budget may review any report required by this subsection be-
fore its submission to such committees of Congress, but the Office
may not revise any such report, require any revision in any such
report, or delay its submission beyond the day prescribed for its
submission, and may submit to such committees of Congress its
comments respecting any such report.
     (i)(1) No employer may discharge any employee or otherwise
discriminate against any employee with respect to his compensa-
                                  100

tion, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the
employee (or any person acting pursuant to a request of the em-
ployee) has—
           (A) commenced, caused to be commenced, or is about to
     commence or cause to be commenced a proceeding under this
     title or a proceeding for the administration or enforcement of
     drinking water regulations or underground injection control
     programs of a State,
           (B) testified or is about to testify in any such proceeding,
     or
           (C) assisted or participated or is about to assist or partici-
     pate in any manner in such a proceeding or in any other action
     to carry out the purposes of this title.
     (2)(A) Any employee who believes that he has been discharged
or otherwise discriminated against by any person in violation of
paragraph (1) may, within 30 days after such violation occurs, file
(or have any person file on his behalf) a complaint with the Sec-
retary of Labor (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’) alleging such discharge or discrimination. Upon receipt
of such a complaint, the Secretary shall notify the person named
in the complaint of the filing of the complaint.
     (B)(i) Upon receipt of a complaint filed under subparagraph
(A), the Secretary shall conduct an investigation of the violation al-
leged in the complaint. Within 30 days of the receipt of such com-
plaint, the Secretary shall complete such investigation and shall
notify in writing the complainant (and any person acting in his be-
half) and the person alleged to have committed such violation of
the results of the investigation conducted pursuant to this subpara-
graph. Within 90 days of the receipt of such complaint the Sec-
retary shall, unless the proceeding on the complaint is terminated
by the Secretary on the basis of a settlement entered into by the
Secretary and the person alleged to have committed such violation,
issue an order either providing the relief prescribed by clause (ii)
or denying the complaint. An order of the Secretary shall be made
on the record after notice and opportunity for agency hearing. The
Secretary may not enter into a settlement terminating a proceeding
on a complaint without the participation and consent of the com-
plainant.
     (ii) If in response to a complaint filed under subparagraph (A)
the Secretary determines that a violation of paragraph (1) has oc-
curred, the Secretary shall order (I) the person who committed
such violation to take affirmative action to abate the violation, (II)
such person to reinstate the complainant to his former position to-
gether with the compensation (including back pay), terms, condi-
tions, and privileges of his employment, (III) compensatory dam-
ages, and (IV) where appropriate, exemplary damages. If such an
order is issued, the Secretary, at the request of the complainant,
shall assess against the person against whom the order is issued
a sum equal to the aggregate amount of all costs and expenses (in-
cluding attorneys’ fees) reasonably incurred, as determined by the
Secretary, by the complainant for, or in connection with, the bring-
ing of the complaint upon which the order was issued.
     (3)(A) Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by an order
issued under paragraph (2) may obtain review of the order in the
                                   101

United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the viola-
tion, with respect to which the order was issued, allegedly occurred.
The petition for review must be filed within sixty days from the is-
suance of the Secretary’s order. Review shall conform to chapter 7
of title 5 of the United States Code. The commencement of proceed-
ings under this subparagraph shall not, unless ordered by the
court, operate as a stay of the Secretary’s order.
     (B) An order of the Secretary with respect to which review
could have been obtained under subparagraph (A) shall not be sub-
ject to judicial review in any criminal or other civil proceeding.
     (4) Whenever a person has failed to comply with an order is-
sued under paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary shall file a civil action
in the United States District Court for the district in which the vio-
lation was found to occur to enforce such order. In actions brought
under this paragraph, the district courts shall have jurisdiction to
grant all appropriate relief including, but not limited to, injunctive
relief, compensatory, and exemplary damages.
     (5) Any nondiscretionary duty imposed by this section is en-
forceable in mandamus proceeding brought under section 1361 of
title 28 of the United States Code.
     (6) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to any employee
who, acting without direction from his employer (or the employer’s
agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of this
title.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–9]

                      øSEC.   1451. INDIAN TRIBES¿

                              INDIAN TRIBES

     SEC. 1451. (a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provisions of sub-
section (b), the Administrator—
          (1) is authorized to treat Indian Tribes as States under
     this title,
          (2) may delegate to such Tribes primary enforcement re-
     sponsibility for public water systems and for underground in-
     jection control, and
          (3) may provide such Tribes grant and contract assistance
     to carry out functions provided by this title.
     (b) EPA REGULATIONS.—
          (1) SPECIFIC PROVISIONS.—The Administrator shall, within
     18 months after the enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
     Amendments of 1986, promulgate final regulations specifying
     those provisions of this title for which it is appropriate to treat
     Indian Tribes as States. Such treatment shall be authorized
     only if:
               (A) the Indian Tribes is recognized by the Secretary of
          the Interior and has a governing body carrying out sub-
          stantial governmental duties and powers;
               (B) the functions to be exercised by the Indian Tribe
          are within the area of the Tribal Government’s jurisdic-
          tion; and
               (C) the Indian Tribe is reasonably expected to be capa-
          ble, in the Administrator’s judgment, of carrying out the
          functions to be exercised in a manner consistent with the
                                   102

          terms and purposes of this title and of all applicable regu-
          lations.
          (2) PROVISIONS WHERE TREATMENT AS STATE INAPPROPRI-
     ATE.—For any provision of this title where treatment of Indian
     Tribes as identical to States is inappropriate, administratively
     infeasible or otherwise inconsistent with the purposes of this
     title, the Administrator may include in the regulations promul-
     gated under this section, other means for administering such
     provision in a manner that will achieve the purpose of the pro-
     vision. Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow In-
     dian Tribes to assume or maintain primary enforcement re-
     sponsibility for public water systems or for underground injec-
     tion control in a manner less protective of the health of persons
     than such responsibility may be assumed or maintained by a
     State. An Indian tribe shall not be required to exercise crimi-
     nal enforcement jurisdiction for purposes of complying with the
     preceding sentence.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–11]
                      STATE REVOLVING LOAN FUNDS

     SEC. 1452. (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—
         (1) GRANTS TO STATES TO ESTABLISH STATE LOAN FUNDS.—
              (A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall offer to
         enter into agreements with eligible States to make capital-
         ization grants, including letters of credit, to the States
         under this subsection to further the health protection objec-
         tives of this title, promote the efficient use of fund resources,
         and for other purposes as are specified in this title.
              (B) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—To be eligible to receive
         a capitalization grant under this section, a State shall es-
         tablish a drinking water treatment revolving loan fund (re-
         ferred to in this section as a ‘‘State loan fund’’) and comply
         with the other requirements of this section. Each grant to
         a State under this section shall be deposited in the State
         loan fund established by the State, except as otherwise pro-
         vided in this section and in other provisions of this title. No
         funds authorized by other provisions of this title to be used
         for other purposes specified in this title shall be deposited
         in any State loan fund.
              (C) EXTENDED PERIOD.—The grant to a State shall be
         available to the State for obligation during the fiscal year
         for which the funds are authorized and during the follow-
         ing fiscal year, except that grants made available from
         funds provided prior to fiscal year 1997 shall be available
         for obligation during each of the fiscal years 1997 and
         1998.
              (D) ALLOTMENT FORMULA.—Except as otherwise pro-
         vided in this section, funds made available to carry out this
         section shall be allotted to States that have entered into an
         agreement pursuant to this section (other than the District
         of Columbia) in accordance with—
                   (i) for each of fiscal years 1995 through 1997, a
              formula that is the same as the formula used to dis-
              tribute public water system supervision grant funds
                        103

     under section 1443 in fiscal year 1995, except that the
     minimum proportionate share established in the for-
     mula shall be 1 percent of available funds and the for-
     mula shall be adjusted to include a minimum propor-
     tionate share for the State of Wyoming and the District
     of Columbia; and
          (ii) for fiscal year 1998 and each subsequent fiscal
     year, a formula that allocates to each State the propor-
     tional share of the State needs identified in the most
     recent survey conducted pursuant to subsection (h), ex-
     cept that the minimum proportionate share provided to
     each State shall be the same as the minimum propor-
     tionate share provided under clause (i).
     (E) REALLOTMENT.—The grants not obligated by the
last day of the period for which the grants are available
shall be reallotted according to the appropriate criteria set
forth in subparagraph (D), except that the Administrator
may reserve and allocate 10 percent of the remaining
amount for financial assistance to Indian Tribes in addi-
tion to the amount allotted under subsection (i) and none
of the funds reallotted by the Administrator shall be real-
lotted to any State that has not obligated all sums allotted
to the State pursuant to this section during the period in
which the sums were available for obligation.
     (F) NONPRIMACY STATES.—The State allotment for a
State not exercising primary enforcement responsibility for
public water systems shall not be deposited in any such
fund but shall be allotted by the Administrator under this
subparagraph. Pursuant to section 1443(a)(9)(A) such sums
allotted under this subparagraph shall be reserved as need-
ed by the Administrator to exercise primary enforcement re-
sponsibility under this title in such State and the remain-
der shall be reallotted to States exercising primary enforce-
ment responsibility for public water systems for deposit in
such funds. Whenever the Administrator makes a final de-
termination pursuant to section 1413(b) that the require-
ments of section 1413(a) are no longer being met by a State,
additional grants for such State under this title shall be
immediately terminated by the Administrator. This sub-
paragraph shall not apply to any State not exercising pri-
mary enforcement responsibility for public water systems as
of the date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
Amendments of 1996.
     (G) OTHER PROGRAMS.—
          (i) NEW SYSTEM CAPACITY.—Beginning in fiscal
     year 1999, the Administrator shall withhold 20 percent
     of each capitalization grant made pursuant to this sec-
     tion to a State unless the State has met the require-
     ments of section 1420(a) (relating to capacity develop-
     ment) and shall withhold 10 percent for fiscal year
     2001, 15 percent for fiscal year 2002, and 20 percent
     for fiscal year 2003 if the State has not complied with
     the provisions of section 1420(c) (relating to capacity
     development strategies). Not more than a total of 20
                             104

           percent of the capitalization grants made to a State in
           any fiscal year may be withheld under the preceding
           provisions of this clause. All funds withheld by the Ad-
           ministrator pursuant to this clause shall be reallotted
           by the Administrator on the basis of the same ratio as
           is applicable to funds allotted under subparagraph (D).
           None of the funds reallotted by the Administrator pur-
           suant to this paragraph shall be allotted to a State un-
           less the State has met the requirements of section 1420
           (relating to capacity development).
                (ii) OPERATOR CERTIFICATION.—The Administrator
           shall withhold 20 percent of each capitalization grant
           made pursuant to this section unless the State has met
           the requirements of 1419 (relating to operator certifi-
           cation). All funds withheld by the Administrator pur-
           suant to this clause shall be reallotted by the Adminis-
           trator on the basis of the same ratio as applicable to
           funds allotted under subparagraph (D). None of the
           funds reallotted by the Administrator pursuant to this
           paragraph shall be allotted to a State unless the State
           has met the requirements of section 1419 (relating to
           operator certification).
      (2) USE OF FUNDS.—Except as otherwise authorized by this
title, amounts deposited in a State loan fund, including loan re-
payments and interest earned on such amounts, shall be used
only for providing loans or loan guarantees, or as a source of
reserve and security for leveraged loans, the proceeds of which
are deposited in a State loan fund established under paragraph
(1), or other financial assistance authorized under this section
to community water systems and nonprofit noncommunity
water systems, other than systems owned by Federal agencies.
Financial assistance under this section may be used by a public
water system only for expenditures (not including monitoring,
operation, and maintenance expenditures) of a type or category
which the Administrator has determined, through guidance,
will facilitate compliance with national primary drinking water
regulations applicable to the system under section 1412 or oth-
erwise significantly further the health protection objectives of
this title. The funds may also be used to provide loans to a sys-
tem referred to in section 1401(4)(B) for the purpose of provid-
ing the treatment described in section 1401(4)(B)(i)(III). The
funds shall not be used for the acquisition of real property or
interests therein, unless the acquisition is integral to a project
authorized by this paragraph and the purchase is from a will-
ing seller. Of the amount credited to any State loan fund estab-
lished under this section in any fiscal year, 15 percent shall be
available solely for providing loan assistance to public water
systems which regularly serve fewer than 10,000 persons to the
extent such funds can be obligated for eligible projects of public
water systems.
      (3) LIMITATION.—
           (A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
      (B), no assistance under this section shall be provided to a
      public water system that—
                               105

               (i) does not have the technical, managerial, and fi-
          nancial capability to ensure compliance with the re-
          quirements of this title; or
               (ii) is in significant noncompliance with any re-
          quirement of a national primary drinking water regu-
          lation or variance.
          (B) RESTRUCTURING.—A public water system described
     in subparagraph (A) may receive assistance under this sec-
     tion if—
               (i) the use of the assistance will ensure compliance;
          and
               (ii) if subparagraph (A)(i) applies to the system,
          the owner or operator of the system agrees to undertake
          feasible and appropriate changes in operations (includ-
          ing ownership, management, accounting, rates, mainte-
          nance, consolidation, alternative water supply, or other
          procedures) if the State determines that the measures
          are necessary to ensure that the system has the tech-
          nical, managerial, and financial capability to comply
          with the requirements of this title over the long term.
          (C) REVIEW.—Prior to providing assistance under this
     section to a public water system that is in significant non-
     compliance with any requirement of a national primary
     drinking water regulation or variance, the State shall con-
     duct a review to determine whether subparagraph (A)(i) ap-
     plies to the system.
(b) INTENDED USE PLANS.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—After providing for public review and
comment, each State that has entered into a capitalization
agreement pursuant to this section shall annually prepare a
plan that identifies the intended uses of the amounts available
to the State loan fund of the State.
     (2) CONTENTS.—An intended use plan shall include—
          (A) a list of the projects to be assisted in the first fiscal
     year that begins after the date of the plan, including a de-
     scription of the project, the expected terms of financial as-
     sistance, and the size of the community served;
          (B) the criteria and methods established for the dis-
     tribution of funds; and
          (C) a description of the financial status of the State
     loan fund and the short-term and long-term goals of the
     State loan fund.
     (3) USE OF FUNDS.—
          (A) IN GENERAL.—An intended use plan shall provide,
     to the maximum extent practicable, that priority for the use
     of funds be given to projects that—
               (i) address the most serious risk to human health;
               (ii) are necessary to ensure compliance with the re-
          quirements of this title (including requirements for fil-
          tration); and
               (iii) assist systems most in need on a per household
          basis according to State affordability criteria.
          (B) LIST OF PROJECTS.—Each State shall, after notice
     and opportunity for public comment, publish and periodi-
                                  106

          cally update a list of projects in the State that are eligible
          for assistance under this section, including the priority as-
          signed to each project and, to the extent known, the ex-
          pected funding schedule for each project.
     (c) FUND MANAGEMENT.—Each State loan fund under this sec-
tion shall be established, maintained, and credited with repayments
and interest. The fund corpus shall be available in perpetuity for
providing financial assistance under this section. To the extent
amounts in the fund are not required for current obligation or ex-
penditure, such amounts shall be invested in interest bearing obli-
gations.
     (d) ASSISTANCE FOR DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES.—
          (1) LOAN SUBSIDY.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
     this section, in any case in which the State makes a loan pursu-
     ant to subsection (a)(2) to a disadvantaged community or to a
     community that the State expects to become a disadvantaged
     community as the result of a proposed project, the State may
     provide additional subsidization (including forgiveness of prin-
     cipal).
          (2) TOTAL AMOUNT OF SUBSIDIES.—For each fiscal year, the
     total amount of loan subsidies made by a State pursuant to
     paragraph (1) may not exceed 30 percent of the amount of the
     capitalization grant received by the State for the year.
          (3) DEFINITION OF DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITY.—In this
     subsection, the term ‘‘disadvantaged community’’ means the
     service area of a public water system that meets affordability
     criteria established after public review and comment by the
     State in which the public water system is located. The Adminis-
     trator may publish information to assist States in establishing
     affordability criteria.
     (e) STATE CONTRIBUTION.—Each agreement under subsection
(a) shall require that the State deposit in the State loan fund from
State moneys an amount equal to at least 20 percent of the total
amount of the grant to be made to the State on or before the date
on which the grant payment is made to the State, except that a
State shall not be required to deposit such amount into the fund
prior to the date on which each grant payment is made for fiscal
years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 if the State deposits the State con-
tribution amount into the State loan fund prior to September 30,
1999.
     (f) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE.—Except as otherwise limited by State
law, the amounts deposited into a State loan fund under this sec-
tion may be used only—
          (1) to make loans, on the condition that—
               (A) the interest rate for each loan is less than or equal
          to the market interest rate, including an interest free loan;
               (B) principal and interest payments on each loan will
          commence not later than 1 year after completion of the
          project for which the loan was made, and each loan will be
          fully amortized not later than 20 years after the completion
          of the project, except that in the case of a disadvantaged
          community (as defined in subsection (d)(3)), a State may
          provide an extended term for a loan, if the extended term—
                             107

               (i) terminates not later than the date that is 30
          years after the date of project completion; and
               (ii) does not exceed the expected design life of the
          project;
          (C) the recipient of each loan will establish a dedicated
     source of revenue (or, in the case of a privately owned sys-
     tem, demonstrate that there is adequate security) for the re-
     payment of the loan; and
          (D) the State loan fund will be credited with all pay-
     ments of principal and interest on each loan;
     (2) to buy or refinance the debt obligation of a municipality
or an intermunicipal or interstate agency within the State at an
interest rate that is less than or equal to the market interest
rate in any case in which a debt obligation is incurred after
July 1, 1993;
     (3) to guarantee, or purchase insurance for, a local obliga-
tion (all of the proceeds of which finance a project eligible for
assistance under this section) if the guarantee or purchase
would improve credit market access or reduce the interest rate
applicable to the obligation;
     (4) as a source of revenue or security for the payment of
principal and interest on revenue or general obligation bonds
issued by the State if the proceeds of the sale of the bonds will
be deposited into the State loan fund; and
     (5) to earn interest on the amounts deposited into the State
loan fund.
(g) ADMINISTRATION OF STATE LOAN FUNDS.—
     (1) COMBINED FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION.—Notwithstand-
ing subsection (c), a State may (as a convenience and to avoid
unnecessary administrative costs) combine, in accordance with
State law, the financial administration of a State loan fund es-
tablished under this section with the financial administration
of any other revolving fund established by the State if otherwise
not prohibited by the law under which the State loan fund was
established and if the Administrator determines that—
          (A) the grants under this section, together with loan re-
     payments and interest, will be separately accounted for and
     used solely for the purposes specified in subsection (a); and
          (B) the authority to establish assistance priorities and
     carry out oversight and related activities (other than finan-
     cial administration) with respect to assistance remains
     with the State agency having primary responsibility for ad-
     ministration of the State program under section 1413, after
     consultation with other appropriate State agencies (as de-
     termined by the State): Provided, That in nonprimacy
     States eligible to receive assistance under this section, the
     Governor shall determine which State agency will have au-
     thority to establish priorities for financial assistance from
     the State loan fund.
     (2) COST OF ADMINISTERING FUND.—Each State may annu-
ally use up to 4 percent of the funds allotted to the State under
this section to cover the reasonable costs of administration of
the programs under this section, including the recovery of rea-
sonable costs expended to establish a State loan fund which are
                                 108

    incurred after the date of enactment of this section, and to pro-
    vide technical assistance to public water systems within the
    State. For fiscal year 1995 and each fiscal year thereafter, each
    State may use up to an additional 10 percent of the funds allot-
    ted to the State under this section—
              (A) for public water system supervision programs
         under section 1443(a);
              (B) to administer or provide technical assistance
         through source water protection programs;
              (C) to develop and implement a capacity development
         strategy under section 1420(c); and
              (D) for an operator certification program for purposes
         of meeting the requirements of section 1419,
    if the State matches the expenditures with at least an equal
    amount of State funds. At least half of the match must be addi-
    tional to the amount expended by the State for public water su-
    pervision in fiscal year 1993. An additional 2 percent of the
    funds annually allotted to each State under this section may be
    used by the State to provide technical assistance to public water
    systems serving 10,000 or fewer persons in the State. Funds uti-
    lized under subparagraph (B) shall not be used for enforcement
    actions.
         (3) GUIDANCE AND REGULATIONS.—The Administrator shall
    publish guidance and promulgate regulations as may be nec-
    essary to carry out the provisions of this section, including—
              (A) provisions to ensure that each State commits and
         expends funds allotted to the State under this section as ef-
         ficiently as possible in accordance with this title and appli-
         cable State laws;
              (B) guidance to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse; and
              (C) guidance to avoid the use of funds made available
         under this section to finance the expansion of any public
         water system in anticipation of future population growth.
    The guidance and regulations shall also ensure that the States,
    and public water systems receiving assistance under this sec-
    tion, use accounting, audit, and fiscal procedures that conform
    to generally accepted accounting standards.
         (4) STATE REPORT.—Each State administering a loan fund
    and assistance program under this subsection shall publish
    and submit to the Administrator a report every 2 years on its
    activities under this section, including the findings of the most
    recent audit of the fund and the entire State allotment. The Ad-
    ministrator shall periodically audit all State loan funds estab-
    lished by, and all other amounts allotted to, the States pursu-
    ant to this section in accordance with procedures established by
    the Comptroller General.
    (h) NEEDS SURVEY.—The Administrator shall conduct an as-
sessment of water system capital improvement needs of all eligible
public water systems in the United States and submit a report to
the Congress containing the results of the assessment within 180
days after the date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act
Amendments of 1996 and every 4 years thereafter.
    (i) INDIAN TRIBES.—
                                   109

          (1) IN GENERAL.—11⁄2 percent of the amounts appropriated
     annually to carry out this section may be used by the Adminis-
     trator to make grants to Indian Tribes and Alaska Native vil-
     lages that have not otherwise received either grants from the
     Administrator under this section or assistance from State loan
     funds established under this section. The grants may only be
     used for expenditures by tribes and villages for public water
     system expenditures referred to in subsection (a)(2).
          (2) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds reserved pursuant to paragraph
     (1) shall be used to address the most significant threats to pub-
     lic health associated with public water systems that serve In-
     dian Tribes, as determined by the Administrator in consulta-
     tion with the Director of the Indian Health Service and Indian
     Tribes.
          (3) ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES.—In the case of a grant for a
     project under this subsection in an Alaska Native village, the
     Administrator is also authorized to make grants to the State of
     Alaska for the benefit of Native villages. An amount not to ex-
     ceed 4 percent of the grant amount may be used by the State
     of Alaska for project management.
          (4) NEEDS ASSESSMENT.—The Administrator, in consulta-
     tion with the Director of the Indian Health Service and Indian
     Tribes, shall, in accordance with a schedule that is consistent
     with the needs surveys conducted pursuant to subsection (h),
     prepare surveys and assess the needs of drinking water treat-
     ment facilities to serve Indian Tribes, including an evaluation
     of the public water systems that pose the most significant
     threats to public health.
     (j) OTHER AREAS.—Of the funds annually available under this
section for grants to States, the Administrator shall make allot-
ments in accordance with section 1443(a)(4) for the Virgin Islands,
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American
Samoa, and Guam. The grants allotted as provided in this sub-
section may be provided by the Administrator to the governments of
such areas, to public water systems in such areas, or to both, to be
used for the public water system expenditures referred to in sub-
section (a)(2). The grants, and grants for the District of Columbia,
shall not be deposited in State loan funds. The total allotment of
grants under this section for all areas described in this subsection
in any fiscal year shall not exceed 0.33 percent of the aggregate
amount made available to carry out this section in that fiscal year.
     (k) OTHER AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—
          (1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), a
     State may take each of the following actions:
               (A) Provide assistance, only in the form of a loan, to
          one or more of the following:
                    (i) Any public water system described in subsection
               (a)(2) to acquire land or a conservation easement from
               a willing seller or grantor, if the purpose of the acquisi-
               tion is to protect the source water of the system from
               contamination and to ensure compliance with national
               primary drinking water regulations.
                    (ii) Any community water system to implement
               local, voluntary source water protection measures to
                                 110

               protect source water in areas delineated pursuant to
               section 1453, in order to facilitate compliance with na-
               tional primary drinking water regulations applicable
               to the system under section 1412 or otherwise signifi-
               cantly further the health protection objectives of this
               title. Funds authorized under this clause may be used
               to fund only voluntary, incentive-based mechanisms.
                     (iii) Any community water system to provide fund-
               ing in accordance with section 1454(a)(1)(B)(i).
               (B) Provide assistance, including technical and finan-
          cial assistance, to any public water system as part of a ca-
          pacity development strategy developed and implemented in
          accordance with section 1420(c).
               (C) Make expenditures from the capitalization grant of
          the State for fiscal years 1996 and 1997 to delineate and
          assess source water protection areas in accordance with sec-
          tion 1453, except that funds set aside for such expenditure
          shall be obligated within 4 fiscal years.
               (D) Make expenditures from the fund for the establish-
          ment and implementation of wellhead protection programs
          under section 1428.
          (2) LIMITATION.—For each fiscal year, the total amount of
     assistance provided and expenditures made by a State under
     this subsection may not exceed 15 percent of the amount of the
     capitalization grant received by the State for that year and may
     not exceed 10 percent of that amount for any one of the follow-
     ing activities:
               (A) To acquire land or conservation easements pursu-
          ant to paragraph (1)(A)(i).
               (B) To provide funding to implement voluntary, incen-
          tive-based source water quality protection measures pursu-
          ant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (1)(A).
               (C) To provide assistance through a capacity develop-
          ment strategy pursuant to paragraph (1)(B).
               (D) To make expenditures to delineate or assess source
          water protection areas pursuant to paragraph (1)(C).
               (E) To make expenditures to establish and implement
          wellhead protection programs pursuant to paragraph
          (1)(D).
          (3) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section
     creates or conveys any new authority to a State, political sub-
     division of a State, or community water system for any new reg-
     ulatory measure, or limits any authority of a State, political
     subdivision of a State or community water system.
     (l) SAVINGS.—The failure or inability of any public water sys-
tem to receive funds under this section or any other loan or grant
program, or any delay in obtaining the funds, shall not alter the ob-
ligation of the system to comply in a timely manner with all appli-
cable drinking water standards and requirements of this title.
     (m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of this section
$599,000,000 for the fiscal year 1994 and $1,000,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 1995 through 2003. To the extent amounts au-
thorized to be appropriated under this subsection in any fiscal year
                                 111

are not appropriated in that fiscal year, such amounts are author-
ized to be appropriated in a subsequent fiscal year (prior to the fis-
cal year 2004). Such sums shall remain available until expended.
     (n) HEALTH EFFECTS STUDIES.—From funds appropriated pur-
suant to this section for each fiscal year, the Administrator shall re-
serve $10,000,000 for health effects studies on drinking water con-
taminants authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
of 1996. In allocating funds made available under this subsection,
the Administrator shall give priority to studies concerning the
health effects of cryptosporidium (as authorized by section 1458(c)),
disinfection byproducts (as authorized by section 1458(c)), and ar-
senic (as authorized by section 1412(b)(12)(A)), and the implementa-
tion of a plan for studies of subpopulations at greater risk of ad-
verse effects (as authorized by section 1458(a)).
     (o) MONITORING FOR UNREGULATED CONTAMINANTS.—From
funds appropriated pursuant to this section for each fiscal year be-
ginning with fiscal year 1998, the Administrator shall reserve
$2,000,000 to pay the costs of monitoring for unregulated contami-
nants under section 1445(a)(2)(C).
     (p) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR STATE OF VIRGINIA.—Not-
withstanding the other provisions of this section limiting the use of
funds deposited in a State loan fund from any State allotment, the
State of Virginia may, as a single demonstration and with the ap-
proval of the Virginia General Assembly and the Administrator,
conduct a program to demonstrate alternative approaches to inter-
governmental coordination to assist in the financing of new drink-
ing water facilities in the following rural communities in southwest-
ern Virginia where none exists on the date of enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 and where such commu-
nities are experiencing economic hardship: Lee County, Wise Coun-
ty, Scott County, Dickenson County, Russell County, Buchanan
County, Tazewell County, and the city of Norton, Virginia. The
funds allotted to that State and deposited in the State loan fund
may be loaned to a regional endowment fund for the purpose set
forth in this subsection under a plan to be approved by the Admin-
istrator. The plan may include an advisory group that includes rep-
resentatives of such counties.
     (q) SMALL SYSTEM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Adminis-
trator may reserve up to 2 percent of the total funds appropriated
pursuant to subsection (m) for each of the fiscal years 1997 through
2003 to carry out the provisions of section 1442(e) (relating to tech-
nical assistance for small systems), except that the total amount of
funds made available for such purpose in any fiscal year through
appropriations (as authorized by section 1442(e)) and reservations
made pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed the amount au-
thorized by section 1442(e).
     (r) EVALUATION.—The Administrator shall conduct an evalua-
tion of the effectiveness of the State loan funds through fiscal year
2001. The evaluation shall be submitted to the Congress at the same
time as the President submits to the Congress, pursuant to section
1108 of title 31, United States Code, an appropriations request for
fiscal year 2003 relating to the budget of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–12]
                             112

           SOURCE WATER QUALITY ASSESSMENT

SEC. 1453. (a) SOURCE WATER ASSESSMENT.—
     (1) GUIDANCE.—Within 12 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996, after
notice and comment, the Administrator shall publish guidance
for States exercising primary enforcement responsibility for pub-
lic water systems to carry out directly or through delegation (for
the protection and benefit of public water systems and for the
support of monitoring flexibility) a source water assessment pro-
gram within the State’s boundaries. Each State adopting modi-
fications to monitoring requirements pursuant to section
1418(b) shall, prior to adopting such modifications, have an ap-
proved source water assessment program under this section and
shall carry out the program either directly or through delega-
tion.
     (2) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—A source water assessment
program under this subsection shall—
          (A) delineate the boundaries of the assessment areas in
     such State from which one or more public water systems in
     the State receive supplies of drinking water, using all rea-
     sonably available hydrogeologic information on the sources
     of the supply of drinking water in the State and the water
     flow, recharge, and discharge and any other reliable infor-
     mation as the State deems necessary to adequately deter-
     mine such areas; and
          (B) identify for contaminants regulated under this title
     for which monitoring is required under this title (or any
     unregulated contaminants selected by the State, in its dis-
     cretion, which the State, for the purposes of this subsection,
     has determined may present a threat to public health), to
     the extent practical, the origins within each delineated area
     of such contaminants to determine the susceptibility of the
     public water systems in the delineated area to such con-
     taminants.
     (3) APPROVAL, IMPLEMENTATION, AND MONITORING RE-
LIEF.—A State source water assessment program under this
subsection shall be submitted to the Administrator within 18
months after the Administrator’s guidance is issued under this
subsection and shall be deemed approved 9 months after the
date of such submittal unless the Administrator disapproves the
program as provided in section 1428(c). States shall begin im-
plementation of the program immediately after its approval.
The Administrator’s approval of a State program under this
subsection shall include a timetable, established in consultation
with the State, allowing not more than 2 years for completion
after approval of the program. Public water systems seeking
monitoring relief in addition to the interim relief provided
under section 1418(a) shall be eligible for monitoring relief, con-
sistent with section 1418(b), upon completion of the assessment
in the delineated source water assessment area or areas con-
cerned.
     (4) TIMETABLE.—The timetable referred to in paragraph (3)
shall take into consideration the availability to the State of
                                  113

    funds under section 1452 (relating to State loan funds) for as-
    sessments and other relevant factors. The Administrator may
    extend any timetable included in a State program approved
    under paragraph (3) to extend the period for completion by an
    additional 18 months.
         (5) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.—The Administrator shall, as
    soon as practicable, conduct a demonstration project, in con-
    sultation with other Federal agencies, to demonstrate the most
    effective and protective means of assessing and protecting
    source waters serving large metropolitan areas and located on
    Federal lands.
         (6) USE OF OTHER PROGRAMS.—To avoid duplication and to
    encourage efficiency, the program under this section may make
    use of any of the following:
               (A) Vulnerability assessments, sanitary surveys, and
         monitoring programs.
               (B) Delineations or assessments of ground water
         sources under a State wellhead protection program devel-
         oped pursuant to this section.
               (C) Delineations or assessments of surface or ground
         water sources under a State pesticide management plan de-
         veloped pursuant to the Pesticide and Ground Water State
         Management Plan Regulation (subparts I and J of part 152
         of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations), promulgated
         under section 3(d) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
         and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a(d)).
               (D) Delineations or assessments of surface water
         sources under a State watershed initiative or to satisfy the
         watershed criterion for determining if filtration is required
         under the Surface Water Treatment Rule (section 141.70 of
         title 40, Code of Federal Regulations).
               (E) Delineations or assessments of surface or ground
         water sources under programs or plans pursuant to the
         Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
         (7) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The State shall make the results
    of the source water assessments conducted under this subsection
    available to the public.
    (b) APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL.—For provisions relating to
program approval and disapproval, see section 1428(c).
[42 U.S.C. 300j–13]

                      SOURCE WATER PETITION PROGRAM

     SEC. 1454. (a) PETITION PROGRAM.—
         (1) IN GENERAL.—
              (A) ESTABLISHMENT.—A State may establish a pro-
         gram under which an owner or operator of a community
         water system in the State, or a municipal or local govern-
         ment or political subdivision of a State, may submit a
         source water quality protection partnership petition to the
         State requesting that the State assist in the local develop-
         ment of a voluntary, incentive-based partnership, among
         the owner, operator, or government and other persons likely
         to be affected by the recommendations of the partnership,
         to—
                             114

              (i) reduce the presence in drinking water of con-
         taminants that may be addressed by a petition by con-
         sidering the origins of the contaminants, including to
         the maximum extent practicable the specific activities
         that affect the drinking water supply of a community;
              (ii) obtain financial or technical assistance nec-
         essary to facilitate establishment of a partnership, or to
         develop and implement recommendations of a partner-
         ship for the protection of source water to assist in the
         provision of drinking water that complies with na-
         tional primary drinking water regulations with respect
         to contaminants addressed by a petition; and
              (iii) develop recommendations regarding voluntary
         and incentive-based strategies for the long-term protec-
         tion of the source water of community water systems.
         (B) FUNDING.—Each State may—
              (i) use funds set aside pursuant to section
         1452(k)(1)(A)(iii) by the State to carry out a program
         described in subparagraph (A), including assistance to
         voluntary local partnerships for the development and
         implementation of partnership recommendations for
         the protection of source water such as source water
         quality assessment, contingency plans, and demonstra-
         tion projects for partners within a source water area
         delineated under section 1453(a); and
              (ii) provide assistance in response to a petition sub-
         mitted under this subsection using funds referred to in
         subsection (b)(2)(B).
    (2) OBJECTIVES.—The objectives of a petition submitted
under this subsection shall be to—
         (A) facilitate the local development of voluntary, incen-
    tive-based partnerships among owners and operators of
    community water systems, governments, and other persons
    in source water areas; and
         (B) obtain assistance from the State in identifying re-
    sources which are available to implement the recommenda-
    tions of the partnerships to address the origins of drinking
    water contaminants that may be addressed by a petition
    (including to the maximum extent practicable the specific
    activities contributing to the presence of the contaminants)
    that affect the drinking water supply of a community.
    (3) CONTAMINANTS ADDRESSED BY A PETITION.—A petition
submitted to a State under this subsection may address only
those contaminants—
         (A) that are pathogenic organisms for which a national
    primary drinking water regulation has been established or
    is required under section 1412; or
         (B) for which a national primary drinking water regu-
    lation has been promulgated or proposed and that are de-
    tected by adequate monitoring methods in the source water
    at the intake structure or in any collection, treatment, stor-
    age, or distribution facilities by the community water sys-
    tems at levels—
              (i) above the maximum contaminant level; or
                              115

               (ii) that are not reliably and consistently below the
          maximum contaminant level.
     (4) CONTENTS.—A petition submitted under this subsection
shall, at a minimum—
          (A) include a delineation of the source water area in
     the State that is the subject of the petition;
          (B) identify, to the maximum extent practicable, the
     origins of the drinking water contaminants that may be ad-
     dressed by a petition (including to the maximum extent
     practicable the specific activities contributing to the pres-
     ence of the contaminants) in the source water area delin-
     eated under section 1453;
          (C) identify any deficiencies in information that will
     impair the development of recommendations by the vol-
     untary local partnership to address drinking water con-
     taminants that may be addressed by a petition;
          (D) specify the efforts made to establish the voluntary
     local partnership and obtain the participation of—
               (i) the municipal or local government or other po-
          litical subdivision of the State with jurisdiction over
          the source water area delineated under section 1453;
          and
               (ii) each person in the source water area delineated
          under section 1453—
                     (I) who is likely to be affected by recommenda-
               tions of the voluntary local partnership; and
                     (II) whose participation is essential to the suc-
               cess of the partnership;
          (E) outline how the voluntary local partnership has or
     will, during development and implementation of rec-
     ommendations of the voluntary local partnership, identify,
     recognize and take into account any voluntary or other ac-
     tivities already being undertaken by persons in the source
     water area delineated under section 1453 under Federal or
     State law to reduce the likelihood that contaminants will
     occur in drinking water at levels of public health concern;
     and
          (F) specify the technical, financial, or other assistance
     that the voluntary local partnership requests of the State to
     develop the partnership or to implement recommendations
     of the partnership.
(b) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF PETITIONS.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—After providing notice and an opportunity
for public comment on a petition submitted under subsection
(a), the State shall approve or disapprove the petition, in whole
or in part, not later than 120 days after the date of submission
of the petition.
     (2) APPROVAL.—The State may approve a petition if the pe-
tition meets the requirements established under subsection (a).
The notice of approval shall, at a minimum, include for infor-
mational purposes—
          (A) an identification of technical, financial, or other as-
     sistance that the State will provide to assist in addressing
                              116

     the drinking water contaminants that may be addressed by
     a petition based on—
               (i) the relative priority of the public health concern
          identified in the petition with respect to the other water
          quality needs identified by the State;
               (ii) any necessary coordination that the State will
          perform of the program established under this section
          with programs implemented or planned by other States
          under this section; and
               (iii) funds available (including funds available
          from a State revolving loan fund established under
          title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
          U.S.C. 1381 et seq.)) or section 1452;
          (B) a description of technical or financial assistance
     pursuant to Federal and State programs that is available
     to assist in implementing recommendations of the partner-
     ship in the petition, including—
               (i) any program established under the Federal
          Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
               (ii) the program established under section 6217 of
          the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of
          1990 (16 U.S.C. 1455b);
               (iii) the agricultural water quality protection pro-
          gram established under chapter 2 of subtitle D of title
          XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838
          et seq.);
               (iv) the sole source aquifer protection program es-
          tablished under section 1427;
               (v) the community wellhead protection program es-
          tablished under section 1428;
               (vi) any pesticide or ground water management
          plan;
               (vii) any voluntary agricultural resource manage-
          ment plan or voluntary whole farm or whole ranch
          management plan developed and implemented under a
          process established by the Secretary of Agriculture; and
               (viii) any abandoned well closure program; and
          (C) a description of activities that will be undertaken
     to coordinate Federal and State programs to respond to the
     petition.
     (3) DISAPPROVAL.—If the State disapproves a petition sub-
mitted under subsection (a), the State shall notify the entity
submitting the petition in writing of the reasons for dis-
approval. A petition may be resubmitted at any time if—
          (A) new information becomes available;
          (B) conditions affecting the source water that is the
     subject of the petition change; or
          (C) modifications are made in the type of assistance
     being requested.
(c) GRANTS TO SUPPORT STATE PROGRAMS.—
     (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may make a grant to
each State that establishes a program under this section that is
approved under paragraph (2). The amount of each grant shall
                                 117

    not exceed 50 percent of the cost of administering the program
    for the year in which the grant is available.
         (2) APPROVAL.—In order to receive grant assistance under
    this subsection, a State shall submit to the Administrator for
    approval a plan for a source water quality protection partner-
    ship program that is consistent with the guidance published
    under subsection (d). The Administrator shall approve the plan
    if the plan is consistent with the guidance published under sub-
    section (d).
    (d) GUIDANCE.—
         (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
    actment of this section, the Administrator, in consultation with
    the States, shall publish guidance to assist—
              (A) States in the development of a source water quality
         protection partnership program; and
              (B) municipal or local governments or political subdivi-
         sions of a State and community water systems in the devel-
         opment of source water quality protection partnerships and
         in the assessment of source water quality.
         (2) CONTENTS OF THE GUIDANCE.—The guidance shall, at a
    minimum—
              (A) recommend procedures for the approval or dis-
         approval by a State of a petition submitted under sub-
         section (a);
              (B) recommend procedures for the submission of peti-
         tions developed under subsection (a);
              (C) recommend criteria for the assessment of source
         water areas within a State; and
              (D) describe technical or financial assistance pursuant
         to Federal and State programs that is available to address
         the contamination of sources of drinking water and to de-
         velop and respond to petitions submitted under subsection
         (a).
    (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 1997 through 2003. Each State with a plan for a
program approved under subsection (b) shall receive an equitable
portion of the funds available for any fiscal year.
    (f) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section—
         (1)(A) creates or conveys new authority to a State, political
    subdivision of a State, or community water system for any new
    regulatory measure; or
         (B) limits any authority of a State, political subdivision, or
    community water system; or
         (2) precludes a community water system, municipal or local
    government, or political subdivision of a government from lo-
    cally developing and carrying out a voluntary, incentive-based,
    source water quality protection partnership to address the ori-
    gins of drinking water contaminants of public health concern.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–14]

                      WATER CONSERVATION PLAN

    SEC. 1455. (a) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
                                  118

1996, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register guide-
lines for water conservation plans for public water systems serving
fewer than 3,300 persons, public water systems serving between
3,300 and 10,000 persons, and public water systems serving more
than 10,000 persons, taking into consideration such factors as water
availability and climate.
     (b) LOANS OR GRANTS.—Within 1 year after publication of the
guidelines under subsection (a), a State exercising primary enforce-
ment responsibility for public water systems may require a public
water system, as a condition of receiving a loan or grant from a
State loan fund under section 1452, to submit with its application
for such loan or grant a water conservation plan consistent with
such guidelines.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–15]

                      ASSISTANCE TO COLONIAS

      SEC. 1456. (a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
           (1) BORDER STATE.—The term ‘‘border State’’ means Ari-
      zona, California, New Mexico, and Texas.
           (2) ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY.—The term ‘‘eligible community’’
      means a low-income community with economic hardship that—
                 (A) is commonly referred to as a colonia;
                 (B) is located along the United States-Mexico border
           (generally in an unincorporated area); and
                 (C) lacks a safe drinking water supply or adequate fa-
           cilities for the provision of safe drinking water for human
           consumption.
      (b) GRANTS TO ALLEVIATE HEALTH RISKS.—The Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency and the heads of other ap-
propriate Federal agencies are authorized to award grants to a bor-
der State to provide assistance to eligible communities to facilitate
compliance with national primary drinking water regulations or
otherwise significantly further the health protection objectives of this
title.
      (c) USE OF FUNDS.—Each grant awarded pursuant to sub-
section (b) shall be used to provide assistance to one or more eligible
communities with respect to which the residents are subject to a sig-
nificant health risk (as determined by the Administrator or the head
of the Federal agency making the grant) attributable to the lack of
access to an adequate and affordable drinking water supply system.
      (d) COST SHARING.—The amount of a grant awarded pursuant
to this section shall not exceed 50 percent of the costs of carrying
out the project that is the subject of the grant.
      (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 1997 through 1999.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–16]

             ESTROGENIC SUBSTANCES SCREENING PROGRAM

     SEC. 1457. In addition to the substances referred to in section
408(p)(3)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
346a(p)(3)(B)) the Administrator may provide for testing under the
screening program authorized by section 408(p) of such Act, in ac-
                                 119

cordance with the provisions of section 408(p) of such Act, of any
other substance that may be found in sources of drinking water if
the Administrator determines that a substantial population may be
exposed to such substance.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–17]

                      DRINKING WATER STUDIES

    SEC. 1458. (a) SUBPOPULATIONS AT GREATER RISK.—
         (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall conduct a con-
    tinuing program of studies to identify groups within the general
    population that may be at greater risk than the general popu-
    lation of adverse health effects from exposure to contaminants
    in drinking water. The study shall examine whether and to
    what degree infants, children, pregnant women, the elderly, in-
    dividuals with a history of serious illness, or other subpopula-
    tions that can be identified and characterized are likely to expe-
    rience elevated health risks, including risks of cancer, from con-
    taminants in drinking water.
         (2) REPORT.—Not later than 4 years after the date of enact-
    ment of this subsection and periodically thereafter as new and
    significant information becomes available, the Administrator
    shall report to the Congress on the results of the studies.
    (b) BIOLOGICAL MECHANISMS.—The Administrator shall con-
duct biomedical studies to—
         (1) understand the mechanisms by which chemical con-
    taminants are absorbed, distributed, metabolized, and elimi-
    nated from the human body, so as to develop more accurate
    physiologically based models of the phenomena;
         (2) understand the effects of contaminants and the mecha-
    nisms by which the contaminants cause adverse effects (espe-
    cially noncancer and infectious effects) and the variations in the
    effects among humans, especially subpopulations at greater risk
    of adverse effects, and between test animals and humans; and
         (3) develop new approaches to the study of complex mix-
    tures, such as mixtures found in drinking water, especially to
    determine the prospects for synergistic or antagonistic inter-
    actions that may affect the shape of the dose-response relation-
    ship of the individual chemicals and microbes, and to examine
    noncancer endpoints and infectious diseases, and susceptible in-
    dividuals and subpopulations.
    (c) STUDIES ON HARMFUL SUBSTANCES IN DRINKING WATER.—
         (1) DEVELOPMENT OF STUDIES.—The Administrator shall,
    not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this sec-
    tion and after consultation with the Secretary of Health and
    Human Services, the Secretary of Agriculture, and, as appro-
    priate, the heads of other Federal agencies, conduct the studies
    described in paragraph (2) to support the development and im-
    plementation of the most current version of each of the follow-
    ing:
              (A) Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (59 Fed.
         Reg. 38832 (July 29, 1994)).
              (B) Disinfectant and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (59
         Fed. Reg. 38668 (July 29, 1994)).
                                  120

               (C) Ground Water Disinfection Rule (availability of
          draft summary announced at (57 Fed. Reg. 33960; July 31,
          1992)).
          (2) CONTENTS OF STUDIES.—The studies required by para-
     graph (1) shall include, at a minimum, each of the following:
               (A) Toxicological studies and, if warranted, epidemio-
          logical studies to determine what levels of exposure from
          disinfectants and disinfection byproducts, if any, may be
          associated with developmental and birth defects and other
          potential toxic end points.
               (B) Toxicological studies and, if warranted, epidemio-
          logical studies to quantify the carcinogenic potential from
          exposure to disinfection byproducts resulting from different
          disinfectants.
               (C) The development of dose-response curves for patho-
          gens, including cryptosporidium and the Norwalk virus.
          (3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are author-
     ized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $12,500,000
     for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2003.
     (d) WATERBORNE DISEASE OCCURRENCE STUDY.—
          (1) SYSTEM.—The Director of the Centers for Disease Con-
     trol and Prevention, and the Administrator shall jointly—
               (A) within 2 years after the date of enactment of this
          section, conduct pilot waterborne disease occurrence studies
          for at least 5 major United States communities or public
          water systems; and
               (B) within 5 years after the date of enactment of this
          section, prepare a report on the findings of the pilot studies,
          and a national estimate of waterborne disease occurrence.
          (2) TRAINING AND EDUCATION.—The Director and Adminis-
     trator shall jointly establish a national health care provider
     training and public education campaign to inform both the pro-
     fessional health care provider community and the general pub-
     lic about waterborne disease and the symptoms that may be
     caused by infectious agents, including microbial contaminants.
     In developing such a campaign, they shall seek comment from
     interested groups and individuals, including scientists, physi-
     cians, State and local governments, environmental groups, pub-
     lic water systems, and vulnerable populations.
          (3) FUNDING.—There are authorized to be appropriated for
     each of the fiscal years 1997 through 2001, $3,000,000 to carry
     out this subsection. To the extent funds under this subsection
     are not fully appropriated, the Administrator may use not more
     than $2,000,000 of the funds from amounts reserved under sec-
     tion 1452(n) for health effects studies for purposes of this sub-
     section. The Administrator may transfer a portion of such funds
     to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for such pur-
     poses.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–18]
                                           121

PART F—ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS TO REGULATE                            THE   SAFETY     OF
                    DRINKING WATER 1
                             øSEC.   1461. DEFINITIONS¿

                                     DEFINITIONS

     SEC. 1461. As used in this part—
          (1) DRINKING WATER COOLER.—The term ‘‘drinking water
     cooler’’ means any mechanical device affixed to drinking water
     supply plumbing which actively cools water for human con-
     sumption.
          (2) LEAD FREE.—The term ‘‘lead free’’ means, with respect
     to a drinking water cooler, that each part or component of the
     cooler which may come in contact with drinking water contains
     not more than 8 percent lead, except that no drinking water
     cooler which contains any solder, flux, or storage tank interior
     surface which may come in contact with drinking water shall
     be considered lead free if the solder, flux, or storage tank inte-
     rior surface contains more than 0.2 percent lead. The Adminis-
     trator may establish more stringent requirements for treating
     any part or component of a drinking water cooler as lead free
     for purposes of this part whenever he determines that any
     such part may constitute an important source of lead in drink-
     ing water.
          (3) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The term ‘‘local edu-
     cational agency’’ means—
               (A) any local educational agency as defined in section
          14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
          1965,
               (B) the owner of any private, nonprofit elementary or
          secondary school building, and
               (C) the governing authority of any school operating
          under the defense dependent’s education system provided
          for under the Defense Dependent’s Education Act of 1978
          (20 U.S.C. 921 and following).
          (4) REPAIR.—The term ‘‘repair’’ means, with respect to a
     drinking water cooler, to take such corrective action as is nec-
     essary to ensure that water cooler is lead free.
          (5) REPLACEMENT.—The term ‘‘replacement’’, when used
     with respect to a drinking water cooler, means the permanent
     removal of the water cooler and the installation of a lead free
     water cooler.
          (6) SCHOOL.—The term ‘‘school’’ means any elementary
     school or secondary school as defined in section 14101 of the
     Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 and any kin-
     dergarten or day care facility.
          (7) LEAD-LINED TANK.—The term ‘‘lead-lined tank’’ means
     a water reservoir container in a drinking water cooler which
     container is constructed of lead or which has an interior sur-
     face which is not leadfree.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–21]

  1 Part F was added by the Lead Contamination Control Act of 1988 (P.L. 100–572; 102 Stat.
2884).
                                 122

 øSEC.   1462. RECALL OF DRINKING WATER COOLERS WITH LEAD-LINED
                               TANKS¿

   RECALL OF DRINKING WATER COOLERS WITH LEAD-LINED TANKS

     SEC. 1462. For purposes of the Consumer Product Safety Act,
all drinking water coolers identified by the Administrator on the
list under section 1463 as having a lead-lined tank shall be consid-
ered to be imminently hazardous consumer products within the
meaning of section 12 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 2061). After notice
and opportunity for comment, including a public hearing, the
Consumer Product Safety Commission shall issue an order requir-
ing the manufacturers and importers of such coolers to repair, re-
place, or recall and provide a refund for such coolers within 1 year
after the enactment of the Lead Contamination Control Act of
1988. For purposes of enforcement, such order shall be treated as
an order under section 15(d) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 2064(d)).
[42 U.S.C. 300j–22]
       øSEC.   1463. DRINKING WATER COOLERS CONTAINING LEAD¿

               DRINKING WATER COOLERS CONTAINING LEAD

     SEC. 1463. (a) PUBLICATION OF LISTS.—The Administrator
shall, after notice and opportunity for public comment, identify
each brand and model of drinking water cooler which is not lead
free, including each brand and model of drinking water cooler
which has a lead-lined tank. For purposes of identifying the brand
and model of drinking water coolers under this subsection, the Ad-
ministrator shall use the best information available to the Environ-
mental Protection Agency. Within 100 days after the enactment of
this section, the Administrator shall publish a list of each brand
and model of drinking water cooler identified under this subsection.
Such list shall separately identify each brand and model of cooler
which has a lead-lined tank. The Administrator shall continue to
gather information regarding lead in drinking water coolers and
shall revise and republish the list from time to time as may be ap-
propriate as new information or analysis becomes available regard-
ing lead contamination in drinking water coolers.
     (b) PROHIBITION.—No person may sell in interstate commerce,
or manufacture for sale in interstate commerce, any drinking water
cooler listed under subsection (a) or any other drinking water cool-
er which is not lead free, including a lead-lined drinking water
cooler.
     (c) CRIMINAL PENALTY.—Any person who knowingly violates
the prohibition contained in subsection (b) shall be imprisoned for
not more than 5 years, or fined in accordance with title 18 of the
United States Code, or both.
     (d) CIVIL PENALTY.—The Administrator may bring a civil ac-
tion in the appropriate United States District Court (as determined
under the provisions of title 28 of the United States Code) to im-
pose a civil penalty on any person who violates subsection (b). In
any such action the court may impose on such person a civil pen-
alty of not more than $5,000 ($50,000 in the case of a second or
subsequent violation).
[42 U.S.C. 300j–23]
                                 123

   øSEC.   1464. LEAD CONTAMINATION IN SCHOOL DRINKING WATER¿

           LEAD CONTAMINATION IN SCHOOL DRINKING WATER

     SEC. 1464. (a) DISTRIBUTION OF DRINKING WATER COOLER
LIST.—Within 100 days after the enactment of this section, the Ad-
ministrator shall distribute to the States a list of each brand and
model of drinking water cooler identified and listed by the Admin-
istrator under section 1463(a).
     (b) GUIDANCE DOCUMENT AND TESTING PROTOCOL.—The Ad-
ministrator shall publish a guidance document and a testing proto-
col to assist schools in determining the source and degree of lead
contamination in school drinking water supplies and in remedying
such contamination. The guidance document shall include guide-
lines for sample preservation. The guidance document shall also in-
clude guidance to assist States, schools, and the general public in
ascertaining the levels of lead contamination in drinking water
coolers and in taking appropriate action to reduce or eliminate such
contamination. The guidance document shall contain a testing pro-
tocol for the identification of drinking water coolers which contrib-
ute to lead contamination in drinking water. Such document and
protocol may be revised, republished and redistributed as the Ad-
ministrator deems necessary. The Administrator shall distribute
the guidance document and testing protocol to the States within
100 days after the enactment of this section.
     (c) DISSEMINATION TO SCHOOLS, ETC.—Each State shall provide
for the dissemination to local educational agencies, private non-
profit elementary or secondary schools and to day care centers of
the guidance document and testing protocol published under sub-
section (b), together with the list of drinking water coolers pub-
lished under section 1463(a).
     (d) REMEDIAL ACTION PROGRAM.—
          (1) TESTING AND REMEDYING LEAD CONTAMINATION.—With-
     in 9 months after the enactment of this section, each State
     shall establish a program, consistent with this section, to assist
     local educational agencies in testing for, and remedying, lead
     contamination in drinking water from coolers and from other
     sources of lead contamination at schools under the jurisdiction
     of such agencies.
          (2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the results of any test-
     ing under paragraph (1) shall be available in the administra-
     tive offices of the local educational agency for inspection by the
     public, including teachers, other school personnel, and parents.
     The local educational agency shall notify parent, teacher, and
     employee organizations of the availability of such testing re-
     sults.
          (3) COOLERS.—In the case of drinking water coolers, such
     program shall include measures for the reduction or elimi-
     nation of lead contamination from those water coolers which
     are not lead free and which are located in schools. Such meas-
     ures shall be adequate to ensure that within 15 months after
     the enactment of this subsection all such water coolers in
     schools under the jurisdiction of such agencies are repaired, re-
     placed, permanently removed, or rendered inoperable unless
                                 124

     the cooler is tested and found (within the limits of testing accu-
     racy) not to contribute lead to drinking water.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–24]

 øSEC.   1465. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR STATE PROGRAMS REGARDING
          LEAD CONTAMINATION IN SCHOOL DRINKING WATER¿

    FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR STATE PROGRAMS REGARDING LEAD
           CONTAMINATION IN SCHOOL DRINKING WATER

     SEC. 1465. (a) SCHOOL DRINKING WATER PROGRAMS.—The Ad-
ministrator shall make grants to States to establish and carry out
State programs under section 1464 to assist local educational agen-
cies in testing for, and remedying, lead contamination in drinking
water from drinking water coolers and from other sources of lead
contamination at schools under the jurisdiction of such agencies.
Such grants may be used by States to reimburse local educational
agencies for expenses incurred after the enactment of this section
for such testing and remedial action.
     (b) LIMITS.—Each grant under this section shall be used by the
State for testing water coolers in accordance with section 1464, for
testing for lead contamination in other drinking water supplies
under section 1464, or for remedial action under State programs
under section 1464. Not more than 5 percent of the grant may be
used for program administration.
     (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section not more than
$30,000,000 for fiscal year 1989, $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1990,
and $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1991.
[42 U.S.C. 300j–25]

                                  Æ
