The New Lead and Copper Rule
On December 22, 2020, U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) finalized the first major update to the Lead
and Copper Rule (LCR) in nearly 30 years. EPA’s new
rule strengthens every aspect of the LCR to better protect
children and communities from the risks of lead exposure.
The new LCR will better protect children at elementary
schools and child care facilities, get the lead out of our
nation’s drinking water, and empower communities
through information.                                             In older homes and buildings, lead
                                                                 can leach from service lines, solder,
Better Protecting Children at Elementary                         and fixtures into tap water and
                                                                 become a significant source of lead
Schools and Child Care Facilities                                exposure. In children, lead exposure
Children spend a large amount of time in elementary
schools and child care facilities and lead in the internal       can cause irreversible and life-long
plumbing of these facilities can pose a risk to children’s       health effects, including decreasing
health. For the first time, the new Lead and Copper Rule         IQ, focus, and academic
requires that community water systems test for lead in           achievement. EPA’s new Lead and
drinking water in elementary schools and child care              Copper Rule strengthens regulatory
facilities that they serve. The old rule had no federal          requirements to better protect
requirement for community water systems to test for lead         children and communities from lead
in drinking water in these buildings. This common sense          in drinking water.
and critical improvement ensures that children—who are at
increased risk from lead exposure—are protected where
they spend a significant amount of time learning and playing. The water system is also required
to provide timely results along with information about the actions the elementary school or child
care facility can take to reduce lead in drinking water.

Getting the Lead Out
EPA’s new rule uses science-based testing protocols to find more sources of lead in drinking
water. The new rule also triggers actions to address lead earlier in more communities and reduces
lead by more effectively managing corrosion control treatment, closing loopholes, and replacing
more lead service lines in their entirety.

Better Science, Better Testing
The old rule enabled sampling techniques that could underestimate lead in drinking water. Based
on better science, the new LCR requires water systems to follow new, improved tap sampling
procedures that will better locate elevated levels of lead in drinking water. One key improvement
in testing protocols is the new “fifth liter” sampling requirement, which captures lead that can
enter drinking water from a lead service line (LSL)—a lead pipe that connects tap-water service
between a water main and house or building. Under the new rule, a sampler must draw four liters
of water before collecting a test sample so that the water is more likely to come from the lead
service line and not the internal plumbing of a building. To get the most accurate test results, the
rule also requires wide-mouth bottles for collecting samples and prohibits sampling instructions
that recommend flushing and cleaning or removing the screen (called an aerator) that covers the
faucet before collecting samples. Additionally, to target homes with the highest potential for
elevated lead levels, systems must collect samples at homes with lead service lines. If there are
no LSLs, systems must collect samples from other leaded plumbing. When an individual sample
at a home exceeds 15 ppb, systems must conduct follow-up sampling as part of a find-and-fix
process to identify sources of lead and actions to reduce lead in the drinking water.

Triggering Actions to Reduce Lead Exposure Earlier and in More Communities
The new LCR jumpstarts corrosion control and actions to replace lead service lines—the primary
sources of lead in drinking water—in more communities across the country. Because lead can
corrode (or leach) from leaded plumbing as water flows through it, systems that take steps to
control that corrosion or remove lead service lines can reduce the amount of lead that makes it
into the drinking water supply. The rule establishes a new threshold of 10 ppb, that when
exceeded, requires more and rapid implementation of corrosion control treatment to reduce lead
in drinking water. The old rule allowed up to 48 months—four years—to pass in our small towns
after a system exceeded the 15 ppb action level before corrosion control was in place. The new
rule’s trigger level requires systems that already have corrosion control to re-optimize their
treatment. It also requires systems that do not have corrosion control to conduct a corrosion
control study to identify the best treatment approach. If that system exceeds the action level in
the future, the system must install the treatment it identified in its study right away. The 10 ppb
trigger level also requires systems to start lead service line replacement programs.

Closing Loopholes and Replacing More Lead Service Lines in Their Entirety
The new LCR will drive more instances where lead service lines are replaced in their entirety.
The old rule created so many loopholes that since 1991—over nearly 30 years—only 1 percent
of utilities actually replaced lead pipes as a result of an action level exceedance. Under the new
rule, water systems will be required to fully replace at least 3 percent of lead service lines each
year when 10 percent of sampling results are above 15 ppb. The new rule’s real 3 percent
replacement rate will do more to remove lead service lines than the old rule’s unmet 7 percent
rate by propelling early action, closing loopholes, and strengthening replacement requirements.
Under the new rule, systems:
    • Must have a plan in place and must start replacing lines as soon as sample results are
         above the trigger or action level.
    • Cannot avoid replacing lead service lines through testing.
    • Are required to replace the water system-owned portion of a lead service line when a
         customer chooses to replace their customer-owned portion of the line.
Additionally, partial lead service line replacements, which can lead to short term spikes in lead
concentrations, will not meet the new requirements. Under the old rule, partial service line
replacements were allowed and were common.

Empowering Communities
In order for individuals, communities, water systems, and local governments to effectively take
action to reduce lead in drinking water, they need to know where lead service lines are and what
resources are available to help address lead in drinking water. The new Lead and Copper Rule
builds the information infrastructure needed to empower these decisions.

Public Inventory of Lead Service Lines
Under the new rule, water systems are required to identify and make public the locations of lead
service lines, following the example of many cities across the country who have proactively
taken this step. By providing thorough and transparent information on where lead service lines
exist, communities can make informed decisions to reduce lead exposure. Additionally, residents
with a known or potential lead service line will be notified and receive information about steps
that they can take to reduce their exposure to lead in drinking water.

Timely Testing Notifications and Lead Reduction Options for Homeowners
If a sample taken from a home has a result over 15 ppb of lead, the water system must notify
occupants of the home within three days, so that steps to reduce lead exposure can be taken
immediately. Notification of tap sample results under 15 ppb will occur within 30 days. If there
is a systemwide action level exceedance, water systems will notify all customers within 24 hours
and provide educational materials within 60 days. Water systems will also notify homeowners
and building owners about opportunities to replace lead service lines, including information
about financial assistance programs, if available, to help pay for replacing the customer-owned
side of the line.

Information on Funding Resources to Support Lead Service Line Replacement
To help communities as they make decisions about funding, EPA has compiled information
about federal funding, case studies, and other additional resources to assist states, local and tribal
governments, and water utilities. These options include EPA’s Drinking Water State Revolving
Loan Fund, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN) Grant, Water
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) financing program, as well as the Housing
and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Block Grants. For a list of funding
opportunities and for additional information on how to apply for and meet the funding
requirements please visit: www.epa.gov/safewater/pipereplacement.

              For more information on the new Lead and Copper Rule visit:
  https://www.epa.gov/ground-water-and-drinking-water/final-revisions-lead-and-copper-rule
