UNOFFICIAL COMPILATION OF CODES, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF
                      THE STATE OF NEWYORK
                TITLE 10. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
                CHAPTER I. STATE SANITARY CODE
               PART 5. DRINKING WATER SUPPLIES
              SUBPART 5-1. PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
                   Text is current through May 16, 2018.
           (Statutory authority: Public Health Law, Section 225)
This page is blank
     UNOFFICIAL COMPILATION OF CODES, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF
                           THE STATE OF NEWYORK
                     TITLE 10. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
                     CHAPTER I. STATE SANITARY CODE
                    PART 5. DRINKING WATER SUPPLIES
                   SUBPART 5-1. PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS
                        Text is current through May 16, 2018.
                (Statutory authority: Public Health Law, Section 225)

This document presents an unofficial version of Subpart 5-1 of the State Sanitary Code under
NYCRR Title 10. The New York State Department of State publishes the official compilation of
State of New York Codes, Rules and Regulations, including 10 NYCRR Part 5, Subpart 5-1
Public Water Systems.

 GENERAL PROVISIONS……………………………………………………….……….………. 1
 5-1.1 Definitions

 SOURCES OF WATER SUPPLY………………………………………………….………….…13
 5-1.10 Statement
 5-1.11 Applicability
 5-1.12 Water quality for existing sources of water supply
 5-1.13 Sampling and analytical requirements
 5-1.14 Water quality for proposed sources of water supply
 5-1-15 Limitation

 PLANNING, SITING, TREATMENT AND APPROVAL………….………..……………….....15
 5-1.20 Applicability
 5-1.21 Siting requirements
 5-1.22 Approval of plans and completed works
 5-1.23 Reporting emergencies
 5-1.24 Approval of fluoridation of public water systems
 5-1.25 Disinfection of facilities
 5-1.26 Dewatering trenches
 5-1.27 Adequacy of distribution system
 5-1.28 Blowoff facilities
 5-1.29 Pumping equipment
 5-1.30 Providing treatment for public water systems
 5-1.31 Cross-connection control
 5-1.32 Protection of equalizing and distribution reservoirs
 5-1.33 Water supply emergency plans

 CONTROL OF COPPER AND LEAD IN DRINKING WATER……………….………..……...27
 5-1.40 General requirements and action levels
 5-1.41 Corrosion control treatment steps and requirements
 5-1.42 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water
 5-1.43 Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters
 5-1.44 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in surface water
 5-1.45 Source water treatment requirements
 5-1.46 Lead service line replacement

                                            Page i
5-1.47    Notification and public education requirements
5-1.48    Reporting and record keeping requirements

PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS; MAXIMUM CONTAMINANT LEVELS; MONITORING
REQUIREMENTS; NOTIFICATIONS REQUIRED…………………………………....…............65

5-1.50    Applicability and responsibility
5-1.51    Maximum contaminant levels; maximum residual disinfectant levels and treatment
          technique requirements
5-1.52    Tables

MONITORING AND CONTROL OF DISINFECTION BYPRODUCTS AND DISINFECTION
BYPRODUCT PRECURSORS………………………………………………………………….121
5-1.60 Applicability
5-1.61 Monitoring requirements for disinfection byproduct precursors
5-1.62 Alternative compliance criteria for enhanced coagulation
5-1.63 Enhanced coagulation performance requirements
5-1.64 Operational Evaluation Levels.
5-1.65 Best Available Technologies (BATs) for Disinfection Byproduct Control

OPERATION AND QUALITY CONTROL……………………..………………….…..............127
5-1.70 Applicability
5-1.71 Protection and supervision of public water systems
5-1.72 Operation of a public water system
5-1.73 Water treatment plant laboratory
5-1.74 Approved laboratories
5-1.75 Additional sampling requirements
5-1.76 Monitoring of consecutive public water systems
5-1.77 State notification
5-1.78 Public notification
5-1.79 Multiple distribution systems

ENHANCED TREATMENT FOR CRYPTOSPORIDIUM ……………………………………..151
5-1.80 Applicability
5-1.81 Source water monitoring requirements at systems using surface water and ground water
       under the direct influence of surface water (GWUDI) sources
5-1.82 Requirements when making a significant change in disinfection practice
5-1.83 Treatment technique requirements

VARIANCES AND EXEMPTIONS…………………………………………………………….161
5-1.90 Variance from a maximum contaminant level
5-1.91 Variance from required use of any specified treatment technique
5-1.92 Exemption from a maximum contaminant level or any treatment technique requirement
5-1.93 Variance or exemption requests
5-1.94 Notice and opportunity for public hearing
5-1.95 Reserved
5-1.96 Enforceability of final schedule prescribed pursuant to granting of variance or exemption



                                           Page ii
SEPARABILITY………………………………………………………………………..…….…169
5-1.100 Separability

APPENDICES
5-A Recommended Standards for Water Works, 2012 Edition (under separate cover)…….…   170
5-B Standards for Water Wells………………………………………………..………….........                       171
5-C Acceptable Methods for the Analysis of Contaminants in Drinking Water………………      186
5-D Special Requirements for Wells Serving Public Water Systems…………………………            188




                                       Page iii
                                      TABLES (Page 75)

Table 1    Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Maximum Contaminant Level
           Determination
Table 2    Nitrate, Nitrite, Total Nitrate/Nitrite Maximum Contaminant Level Determination
Table 3    Organic Chemicals Maximum Contaminant Level Determination
Table 3A   Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level (MRDL) Determination
Table 4    Entry Point Turbidity Maximum Contaminant Level Determination for Unfiltered
           Systems
Table 4A   Surface Water Turbidity Performance Standards
Table 5    Distribution System Turbidity Maximum Contaminant Level Distribution
Table 6    Microbiological Contaminants Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL)/Treatment
           Technique (TT) Violation Determination
Table 7    Radiological Maximum Contaminant Level Determination
Table 8A   Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements
           for Asbestos
Table 8B   Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 8C   Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements
           – Nitrates, Nitrites
Table 8D   Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements
           – Other Chemicals
Table 9A   Organic Chemicals – Disinfection Byproducts Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 9B   Organic Chemicals – POCs, Vinyl Chloride, Methyl-tertiary-butyl-ether (MTBE),
           UOCs, Propylene Glycol Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 9C   Organic Chemicals – Pesticides, Dioxin, PCBs Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 9D   Organic Chemicals – POCs Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 10   Turbidity Minimum Monitoring Requirements for Unfiltered Systems Pending
Filtration
Table 10A Turbidity Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 11 Microbiological Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 11A Microbiological/Filtration Avoidance Criteria Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 11B Repeat Microbiological Sampling Requirements following Total Coliform Positive
           and/or Fecal Indicator Positive Sample(s)
Table 12 Radiological Minimum Monitoring Requirements
Table 13 Required Notifications
Table 14A CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 0.5 Degrees Celsius
Table 14B CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 5.0 Degrees Celsius
Table 14C CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 10.0 Degrees Celsius
Table 14D CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 15.0 Degrees Celsius
Table 14E CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 20.0 Degrees Celsius
Table 14F CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine at 25.0 Degrees Celsius



                                            Page iv
                                    TABLES (continued)

Table 14G CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Free
           Chlorine Dioxide and Ozone
Table 14H. CT Values (CT 99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by
           Chloramines
Table 14I. CT Values (mg·min/L) for Cryptosporidium Inactivation by Chlorine Dioxide
Table 14J. CT Values (mg·min/L) for Cryptosporidium Inactivation by Ozone
Table 14K. UV Dose Table for Cryptosporidium, Giardia lamblia, and Virus Inactivation Credit
Table 15 Entry Point Disinfectant Monitoring Frequency for Systems Using Chemical
           Disinfection
Table 15A Disinfectant Residual Minimum Distribution System Monitoring Requirements for
           Systems Using Chemical Disinfection
Table 16 Additional Contaminants for which Reporting is Required Pursuant to 5-1.72(e)-(i)
Table 17 Information Collection Rule Contaminant Reporting Requirements




                                            Page v
This page is blank




                     Page vi
General Provisions

Section 5-1.1 Definitions. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

As used in this Subpart the following words and terms shall have the stated meaning, except as
otherwise specifically provided:

(a) “-log treatment” means the reduction of a specified proportion of viruses, bacteria, protozoa
    or other organisms present in drinking water expressed as factors of ten, through disinfection
    (inactivation) and/or removal. For example, 3-log treatment removes or inactivates 999 out of
    1000 organisms or 99.9 percent.

(b) Action level means the concentration of copper or lead that when exceeded triggers actions to
    be taken by a water system.

     Copper action level = 1.3 milligrams per liter
Lead action level = 0.015 milligrams per liter

(c) Approved method means an analytical method, including sample preparation, of proven
    reliability which has been approved, or given similar recognition by the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a New York State regulatory program in
    environmental or public health protection, for the specific purpose for which the method is to
    be used. Methods approved by the department pursuant to section 10 NYCRR 55-2.5 shall be
    deemed approved methods

(d) Auxiliary source means a source of water supply which is not normally used but which has
    been approved for use by the department or other State agencies having jurisdiction, and has
    been developed for use when the normal source or sources fail to meet the water supply
    requirements.

(e) Backflow means a flow condition, induced by a pressure differential, which causes the
    reversal of flow of water or other liquids, solids, and/or gases into the distribution pipes of a
    potable water supply from any source other than the intended potable water source.

(f) Backflow prevention device tester (or “tester”) means a person who has met the certification
    requirements and been issued a certification as specified in section 5-1.31

(g) Bag filter means a pressure-driven separation device that removes particulate matter larger
    than 1 micrometer using an engineered porous filtration media.

(h) Bank filtration means a water treatment process that uses a well to recover surface water that
    has naturally infiltrated into ground water through a river bed or bank(s). Infiltration is
    typically enhanced by the hydraulic gradient imposed by a nearby pumping water supply or
    other well(s).




                                                Page 1
(i) Cartridge filter means a pressure-driven separation device that removes particulate matter
    larger than one micrometer using an engineered porous filtration media.

(j) Clean compliance history means a record of no MCL violations for E. coli, no total coliform
    or E. coli monitoring violations, no treatment technique trigger exceedances, and no
    treatment technique violations under section 5-1.52 Table 6 of this Subpart.

(k) Coagulation means a process using coagulants and mixing by which colloidal and suspended
    material are destabilized and agglomerated into flocs.

(l) Combined distribution system means the interconnected distribution system consisting of the
    distribution systems of wholesale systems and of the consecutive systems that receive
    finished water.

(m) Commissioner means the Commissioner of Health of the State of New York.

(n) Community water system (CWS) means a public water system which serves at least five
    service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-round
    residents.

(o) Comprehensive Performance Evaluation (CPE) is a thorough review and analysis of a
    treatment plant's performance-based capabilities and associated administrative, operation and
    maintenance practices. For purposes of compliance with section 5-1.72 (c) (2) (iv) of this
    Subpart, the CPE must consist of at least the following components: assessment of plant
    performance; evaluation of major unit processes; identification and prioritization of
    performance limiting factors; assessment of the applicability of comprehensive technical
    assistance; and preparation of a CPE report.

(p) Consecutive system means a public water system that receives some or all of its finished
    water from one or more wholesale systems. Delivery may be through a direct connection or
    through the distribution system of one or more consecutive systems.

(q) Contaminant means any physical, chemical, microbiological or radiological substance or
    matter in water

(r) Conventional filtration means a series of processes including coagulation, flocculation,
    sedimentation and filtration.

(s) Corrective action means the action(s) taken by a water system consistent with the
    requirements of this code including one or more of the following: correcting significant
    deficiencies; providing an alternate source of water; removing source(s) of contamination;
    providing treatment; or other action acceptable to the State.

(t) Corrosion inhibitor means a substance capable of reducing the corrosivity of water toward
    metal plumbing materials, especially lead and copper, by forming a protective coating on the
    interior surface of these materials.



                                              Page 2
(u) Cross-connection means an actual or potential connection between a potable water system
    and any other source or system through which a water supply could be contaminated.

(v) CT means the product of the free residual disinfectant concentration (C) in milligrams per
    liter determined before or at the first customer, and the corresponding disinfectant contact
    time (T) in minutes, expressed by the formula (C) x (T) = CT. Disinfectant contact time (T),
    is the time that it takes for water to move from the point of disinfectant application or the
    previous point of residual disinfectant measurement to a point before or at the point where
    residual disinfectant concentration (C) is measured.

(w) Cyber attack means deliberate actions to target computer information systems,
   infrastructures, computer networks, computer controlled mechanical devices and/or personal
   computers by various means of malicious acts that either steal, alter, disrupt or damage a
   target by gaining access into a susceptible electronic or electromechanical device.

(x) Department means the New York State Department of Health.

(y) Designated representative means the health commissioner or health officer of a city of
    50,000 population or over, or the health commissioner or health officer of a county or part-
    county health district, the state regional health director, or district director having
    jurisdiction; a public health director or public health engineer qualified as duly appointed
    pursuant to Part 11 of this Title; or a county health commissioner, or county health director
    having the powers and duties prescribed in section 352 of the Public Health Law, or any
    other individual so designated by the commissioner.

(z) Disinfection station means a facility consisting of one or more points where water is
    routinely treated with an oxidant for disinfection, odor control or other purposes including
    the inactivation of pathogenic organisms and excluding treatment on a raw water
    transmission main.

(aa) Distribution point means a sampling point representative of drinking water within the
    distribution system.

(ab) Diatomaceous earth filtration means a process resulting in substantial particulate removal
    which a precoat cake of diatomaceous earth filter media is deposited on a support membrane
    (septum), and while the water is filtered by passing through the cake on the septum,
    additional filter media known as body feed is continuously added to the feed water to
    maintain the permeability of the filter cake.

(ac) Direct filtration means a series of processes including coagulation and filtration but
    excluding sedimentation resulting in substantial particulate removal.

(ad) Dose equivalent means the product of the absorbed dose from ionizing radiation and such
    factors as account for differences in biological effectiveness because of the type of radiation
    and its distribution in the body as specified by the International Commission on Radiological
    Units and Measurements (ICRU).



                                               Page 3
(ae) Dual sample set means a set of two samples collected at the same time and same location,
    with one sample analyzed for total trihalomethanes (TTHM) and the other sample analyzed
    for haloacetic acids (five) HAA5.

(af) Dwelling unit means one or more rooms with provisions for living, sanitary and sleeping
    facilities arranged for the use of one family.

(ag) Effective corrosion inhibitor residual means a concentration sufficient to form a protective
    coating on the interior walls of a pipe.

(ah) Emergency source means a source of water supply which is not the regular source or
    auxiliary source and which is developed during an emergency for temporary use.

(ai) Enhanced coagulation means the addition of sufficient coagulant for improved removal of
    disinfection byproduct precursors by conventional filtration treatment.

(aj) Entry point means a representative sampling location after the last point of treatment but
    before the first consumer connection.

(ak) Fecal indicator means a microorganism (for example a bacteriophage, coliphage, or
    bacterium) that is used to determine the sanitary quality of drinking water and the likelihood
    of the presence of pathogen contamination from the waste of warm-blooded animals. The
    most commonly used fecal indicator is Escherichia coli (E. coli).

(al) Filter profile is a graphical representation of individual filter performance, based on
    continuous turbidity measurements or total particle counts versus time for an entire filter run,
    from startup to backwash that includes an assessment of filter performance while another
    filter is being backwashed.

(am) Filtration means a process for removing particulate matter from water by passage through
   porous material.

(an) Finished water means water that is introduced into the distribution system of a public water
    system and is intended for distribution and consumption without further treatment, except as
    necessary to maintain water quality in the distribution system (e.g., booster disinfection,
    addition of corrosion control chemicals).

(ao) First draw tap sample for lead and copper means a one liter sample of water collected from
    a cold water tap after the water has stood in the plumbing system for at least six hours and is
    collected without flushing the tap.

(ap) Flocculation means a process to enhance agglomeration or collection of smaller floc
    particles into larger, more easily settleable particles through gentle stirring by hydraulic or
    mechanical mechanisms.

(aq) GAC10 means granular activated carbon filter beds with an empty-contact time of 10
    minutes based on average daily flow and a carbon reactivation or replacement frequency of
    every 180 days, except that the reactivation frequency for GAC10 used as a best available

                                                Page 4
   technology for compliance with total trihalomethanes (TTHM) and haloacetic acids (five)
   (HAA5) maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) shall be 120 days.

(ar) AC20 means granular activated carbon filter beds with an empty-bed contact time of 20
    minutes based on average daily flow and a carbon reactivation frequency of every 240 days.

(as) Gross alpha particle activity means the total radioactivity because of alpha particle emission
    as inferred from measurements on a dry sample.

(at) Gross beta particle activity means the total radioactivity because of beta particle emission as
    inferred from measurements on a dry sample.

(au) Ground water directly influenced by surface water, also known as Ground Water Under the
    Direct Influence of surface water, or GWUDI, means any water beneath the surface of the
    ground which exhibits significant and rapid shifts in water characteristics such as turbidity,
    temperature, conductivity or pH which closely correlates to climatological or surface water
    conditions and/or which contains macroorganisms, algae, large diameter (three microns or
    greater) pathogens or insect parts of a surface water origin.

(av) Ground water source means a source of water supply taken from a ground water aquifer and
    developed in accordance with section 5-1.22 of this Subpart, but shall not include an
    admixture of surface water or water exposed to the ground surface. Any ground water source
    at a system that uses surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface
    water that does not receive treatment as described in subdivision 5-1.30(b) of this Subpart,
    prior to the first customer, is subject to all requirements applicable to ground water systems
    and ground water sources.

(aw) Ground water system means a public water system that uses only ground water, excluding
     any surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water.


(ax) Haloacetic acids (five) (HAA5) mean the sum of the concentrations in milligrams per liter
    of five specific haloacetic acid compounds, rounded to two significant figures after addition.
    The five haloacetic acids that comprise the HAA5 are monochloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic
    acid, trichloroacetic acid, monobromoacetic acid, and dibromoacetic acid.

(ay) Internal protection means fixture isolation of a fixture, area or zone which requires
    backflow prevention at the source of the cross-connection or potential hazard, in accordance
    with the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code and/or the local
    plumbing and building codes.

(az) Large water system means a water system that serves more than 50,000 persons.

(ba) Lead service line means a service line made of lead which connects the water main to the
      building inlet and any lead appurtenances connected to the lead service line.

(bb) Lead service line sample means a one liter sample for lead, collected after the water has
      stood in the service line for at least six hours. The sample must be collected directly from a

                                               Page 5
      tap on the service line or by calculating and wasting the amount of water in the plumbing
      system from the sampling point to the service line. At a single family structure, the sample
      may be collected by running the water until there is a significant change in water
      temperature.

(bc) Level 1 assessment means an evaluation to identify the possible presence of sanitary defects,
      defects in distribution system coliform monitoring practices, and, when possible, the likely
      reason that the system triggered the assessment.

(bd) Level 2 assessment means an evaluation conducted by an individual approved by the State,
      to identify the possible presence of sanitary defects, defects in distribution system coliform
      monitoring practices, and, when possible, the likely reason that the system triggered the
      assessment. A Level 2 assessment provides a more detailed examination of the system
      (including the system’s monitoring and operational practices) than a Level 1 assessment,
      through the use of more comprehensive investigation and review of available information,
      additional internal and external resources, and other relevant practices.

(be) Locational running annual average (LRAA) means the average of sample analytical results
      during the previous four calendar quarters for samples taken at a particular monitoring
      location.

(bf) Man-made beta particle and photon emitters means all radionuclides emitting beta particles
      and/or photons, except the daughter products of thorium-232, uranium-235 and uranium-
      238, listed in Maximum Permissible Body Burdens and Maximum Permissible
      Concentration of Radionuclides in Air or Water for Occupational Exposure, National
      Bureau of Standards, Handbook 69, as amended August 1963, U.S. Department of
      Commerce. Copies of this publication are available from N.C.R.P. Publications, 7910
      Woodmont Avenue, Bethesda, MD, and a copy is available for inspection and copying at
      the offices of the records access officer of the Department of Health, Corning Tower,
      Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY 12237.

(bg) Maximum contaminant level (MCL) means the maximum permissible level of a contaminant
     in water, which is delivered to any user of a public water system. For entry point turbidity
     and inorganic chemicals listed in section 5-1.52 tables 1 and 2 of this Subpart, the
     maximum permissible level is measured at the point of entry to the distribution system. For
     organic chemicals with MCLs listed in section 5-1.52 table 3 of this Subpart, the MCL is
     measured at the individual sources, unless otherwise specified by the State. Substances
     added to the water by the user, and limited to the premises of the user, are excluded from
     this definition.

(bh) Maximum residual disinfectant level (MRDL) means a level of disinfectant measured at a
     consumer's tap, above which the possibility of unacceptable health effects exists.

(bi) Maximum total trihalomethane potential (MTP) means the maximum concentration of total
      trihalomethane produced in a given water containing a free chlorine residual after seven
      days at a temperature of 25 degrees Celsius or above.



                                               Page 6
(bj) Medium water system means a water system that serves greater than 3,300 and less than or
      equal to 50,000 persons.

(bk) Membrane filtration means a pressure- or vacuum-driven separation process in which
     particulate matter larger than 1 micrometer is rejected by an engineered barrier, primarily
     through a size-exclusion mechanism, and which has a measurable removal efficiency of a
     target organism that can be verified through the application of a direct integrity test. This
     definition includes the common membrane technologies of microfiltration, ultrafiltration,
     nanofiltration, and reverse osmosis.

(bl) Method Detection Limit (MDL) means the minimum concentration of a substance that can be
      measured and reported with 99 percent confidence that the analyte concentration is greater
      than zero and is determined from analysis of a sample in a given matrix containing the
      analyte.

(bm) Noncommunity water system (NCWS) means a public water system that is not a community
     water system.

(bn) Nontransient noncommunity water system (NTNC) means a public water system that is not a
      community water system but is a subset of a noncommunity water system that regularly
      serves at least 25 of the same people, four hours or more per day, for four or more days per
      week, for 26 or more weeks per year.

(bo) Optimal corrosion control treatment means the corrosion control treatment that reduces the
      lead and copper concentrations at users' taps to the lowest reasonably achievable level
      while insuring that the treatment does not cause the water system to violate Part 5 of the
      State Sanitary Code or cause adverse health or operational effects.

(bp) Person means an individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, State agency,
      municipality, including a county, or Federal agency.

(bq) Picocurie means that quantity of radioactive material producing 2.22 nuclear
      transformations per minute.

(br) Plant intake means the works or structures at the head of a conduit through which water is
      diverted from a source, such as a river or lake, into the treatment plant.

(bs) Potable water means a water which meets the requirements established by this Subpart.

(bt) Point of use means the free-flowing outlet of the ultimate user of a public water system.

(bu) Practical Quantitation Limit (PQL) means the practical and routinely achievable method-
      specific measurable concentration limit achieved by a laboratory with a high degree of
      certainty (>99.9% confidence) in the results.

(bv) Presedimentation means a preliminary treatment process used to remove gravel, sand, and
      other particulate material from the source water through settling before the water enters the
      primary clarification and filtration processes in a treatment plant.

                                               Page 7
(bw) Principal organic contaminant (POC) means any organic chemical compound belonging to
     the following classes, except for trichloromethane (chloroform), dibromochloromethane,
     bromodichloromethane, tribromomethane (bromoform) and any other organic contaminant
     with a specific MCL listed in section 5-1.52 table 3 of this Subpart:
       halogenated alkane: Compound containing carbon (C), hydrogen (H) and halogen (X)
       where X = fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br) and/or iodine (I), having the general
       formula CnHyXz, where y + z = 2n + 2; n, y and z are integer variables; n and z are equal
       to or greater than one and y is equal to or greater than zero;

       halogenated ether: Compound containing carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O) and
       halogen X (where X = F, Cl, Br and/or I) having the general formula CnHyXzO, where y
       + z = 2n + 2; the oxygen is bonded to two carbons; n, y and z are integer variables; n is
       equal to or greater than two, y is equal to or greater than zero and z is equal to or greater
       than one;

       halobenzenes and substituted halobenzenes: Derivatives of benzene which have at least
       one halogen atom attached to the ring and which may or may not have straight or
       branched chain hydrocarbon, nitrogen or oxygen substituents;

       benzene and alkyl- or nitrogen-substituted benzenes: Benzene or a derivative of benzene
       which has either an alkyl- and/or a nitrogen-substituent;

       substituted, unsaturated hydrocarbons: A straight or branched chain unsaturated
       hydrocarbon compound containing one of the following: halogen, aldehyde, nitrile,
       amide; and

       halogenated non-aromatic cyclic hydrocarbons: A non-aromatic cyclic compound
       containing a halogen.

(bx) Process compliance monitoring means the State-approved measurements and records of
      water system operation and/or water quality parameters that demonstrate the effectiveness
      of the treatment process(es) employed by the public water system to achieve a treatment
      technique requirement.

(by) Protective device means an approved double check valve assembly, reduced pressure zone
      assembly, air gap or other method of backflow protection accepted by the department.

(bz) Public health hazard means an existing or imminent condition which can be responsible for
      or cause illness, injury or death and for which immediate corrective or remedial action is
      required. Public health hazards include, but are not limited to, the following:

       an Escherichia coli (E. coli) MCL violation, or failure to test for E. coli after any repeat
       sample tests positive for coliform;
       a nitrate/nitrite MCL violation, or failure to take a confirmation sample within 24 hours
       for nitrate or nitrite after an initial sample exceeds the MCL;



                                               Page 8
        an acute MRDL violation for chlorine dioxide as specified in section 5-1.52 table 3A of
       this Subpart, or failure to take the required samples in the distribution system the day
       after the MRDL is exceeded at the entry point as specified in section 5-1.52 table 15A of
       this Subpart;
        turbidity violations or exceedances specified in paragraph 5-1.78(d)(3) of this Subpart
       and determined by the State to present an existing or imminent condition which can be
       responsible for or cause illness, injury or death and for which immediate corrective or
       remedial action is required;
       use of an unapproved or contaminated water supply source;
       insufficient quantity of water to meet drinking or sanitary demands;
        hazardous or toxic chemical contamination;
        disinfection which is inadequate to destroy harmful microorganisms or to maintain a
       specified chlorine residual;
       disruption of water service of four hours or more, determined by the State to present an
       existing or imminent condition which can be responsible for or cause illness, injury or
       death and for which immediate corrective or remedial action is required;
   (10) cross-connections of sufficient hazard to adversely affect the health of a water consumer;
         and
   (11) any other conditions, including a waterborne disease outbreak, determined to be a public
   health hazard by the commissioner.

(ca) Public notification means disseminating information about a problem with a public water
      system in a form and manner consistent with section 5-1.78 of this Subpart.

(cb) Public water system means a community, noncommunity or nontransient noncommunity
      water system which provides water to the public for human consumption through pipes or
      other constructed conveyances, if such system has at least five service connections or
      regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year.
      Such term includes:

       collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities under control of the supplier of
       water of such system and used with such system; and

        collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used with
       such system.

(cc) Raw water means water immediately before the first or only point of disinfection or other
      treatment.

(cd) Regular source means a source of water supply which is normally used and is approved by
      the department and other State agencies having jurisdiction.



                                                Page 9
(ce) Rem means the unit dose equivalent from ionizing radiation to the total body or any internal
      organ or organ system.

(cf) Millirem (MREM) means 0.001 of a rem.

(cg) Reporting period means a time period designated by the State for determining maximum
      contaminant level compliance.

(ch) Sanitary defect means a defect that could provide a pathway of entry for microbial
      contamination into the distribution system or that is indicative of a failure or imminent
      failure in a barrier that is already in place

(ci) Sanitary survey means an onsite review of a water system including the water source,
      facilities, equipment, operations maintenance, and monitoring compliance of a public water
      system to evaluate the adequacy of the system, its sources and operations and the
      distribution of safe drinking water. The survey must include evaluation of the following
      components: source; treatment; distribution system; finished water storage; pumps, pump
      facilities, and controls; monitoring, reporting, and data verification; system management
      and operation; and operator compliance with State requirements. Review of each of these
      categories of system operation need not be completed in a single visit.

(cj) Seasonal system means a non-community water system that is not operated as a public water
      system on a year-round basis and starts up and shuts down at the beginning and end of each
      operating season.

(ck) Sedimentation means a process for removal of solids before filtration by gravity or
      separation.

(cl) Service connection means the pertinent pipes, valves and fittings that connect a distribution
      system to a consumer's facility.

(cm) Service protection means the installation of a protective device or method of backflow
     protection at the service connection, commensurate with the degree of hazard of the
     consumer’s potable water system. Service protection is also known as containment.

(cn) Significant deficiency means a defect in a system’s design, operation or maintenance, or a
      failure or malfunction of its source, treatment, storage, or distribution, that causes or is
      reasonably expected to cause the introduction of contamination into water delivered to
      consumers. Significant deficiencies also include: loss of ability to deliver an adequate
      quantity of water; inadequate barriers of protection including failure of monitoring;
      conditions that pose an obvious security risk to the water system; or any other condition
      with the potential to cause a future public health hazard (i.e. before the next scheduled
      sanitary survey).

(co) Single family structure means a building constructed as a single-family residence that is
      currently used as either a residence or a place of business.



                                               Page 10
(cp) Slow sand filtration means a process involving passage of raw water through a bed of sand
      at low velocity resulting in particulate removal by physical or biological mechanisms.

(cq) Small water system means a water system that serves 3,300 or fewer persons.

(cr) Source of water supply means any ground water aquifer, surface water body or watercourse
      from which water is taken either periodically or continuously for drinking, culinary or
      food-processing purposes, or which has been designated for present or future use as a
      source of water supply for domestic or municipal purposes.

(cs) State means the State Commissioner of Health, or his designated representative.

(ct) State notification means notifying the State by telephone, facsimile (FAX) copy, e-mail or
      other means about the existence or potential existence of a public health hazard, or the
      existence of any other violation or situation that may pose a risk to public health.

(cu) Supplier of water means any person who owns or operates a public water system.

(cv) Surface water means all water open to the atmosphere and subject to surface runoff.

(cw) SUVA means the UV absorption at 254 nanometers (measured in 1/meters) divided by the
     dissolved organic carbon concentration (measured in mg/L). SUVA is an indicator of the
     humic content of water and the ability of the water to be treated for the removal of
     disinfection byproduct precursors.

(cx) Tier 1 notification means the category for public notifications that are required within 24
      hours of learning of a public health hazard. Section 5-1.78(c) of this Subpart lists the
      specific requirements for Tier 1 notifications.

(cy) Tier 2 notification means the category for public notifications that are required within 30
      days of learning of a violation or situation with the potential to have serious adverse effects
      on human health after long term exposure, such as most MCL, MRDL and treatment
      technique violations that are not public health hazards. Section 5-1.52 table 13 of this
      Subpart lists violations and situations that require Tier 2 notification; section 5-1.78(d) of
      this Subpart lists the specific requirements for Tier 2 notifications.

(cz) Tier 3 notification means the category for public notifications that are required within one
      year (30 days for transient noncommunity water systems) of learning of a less serious
      violation or situation that does not require a Tier 1 or Tier 2 notification, such as most
      monitoring violations. Section 5-1.52 table 13 of this Subpart lists violations and situations
      that require Tier 3 notification; section 5-1.78(e) of this Subpart lists the specific
      requirements for Tier 3 notifications.

(da) Total Organic Carbon (TOC) means total organic carbon in mg/L, measured by converting
      organic carbon to carbon dioxide, rounded to two significant figures.




                                               Page 11
(db) Total trihalomethane (TTHM) means the sum of the concentration of trichloromethane
      (chloroform), dibromochloromethane, bromodichloromethane and tribromomethane
      (bromoform).

(dc) Transient noncommunity water system (TNC) means a noncommunity water system that
      does not regularly serve at least 25 of the same people over six months per year.

(dd) Treatment technique means any minimum treatment or action specified by this Part or
      designated by the State as necessary to prevent the entry of contamination into or to reduce
      the level of a contaminant in drinking water delivered by a public water system.

(de) Two-stage lime softening means a process in which chemical addition and hardness
      precipitation occur in each of two distinct unit clarification processes in series prior to
      filtration.

(df) Uncovered finished water storage facility means a tank, reservoir, or other facility used to
      store water that will undergo no further treatment to reduce microbial pathogens except
      residual disinfection and is directly open to the atmosphere.

(dg) Unspecified organic contaminant (UOC) means any organic chemical compound not
      otherwise specified in this Subpart.

(dh) Virus means a virus of fecal origin, which is infectious to humans by waterborne
      transmission.

(di) Violation means failure to comply with or conform to the provisions of this Subpart.

(dj) Waterborne disease outbreak means the occurrence of acute infectious illness
      epidemiologically associated with the ingestion of water from a public water system.

(dk) Watercourse means any surface water listed in 6 NYCRR, Chapter 10.

(dl) Water supply emergency plan means a plan approved by the State and filed with the State at
      such location as specified by the commissioner. The plan shall address the actions to be
      taken by a water supplier to anticipate water supply emergencies and the steps to be taken
      to ensure the delivery of potable water during a water supply emergency.

(dm) Water treatment plant means any plant or equipment which, through the addition of
     chemicals or through aeration, ion exchange, demineralization, coagulation, sedimentation
     or filtration, or through any other means or combinations of treatment, shall change the
     physical, chemical, radiological or microbiological quality of water.

(dn) Wholesale system means a public water system that treats source water as necessary to
     produce finished water and then delivers some or all of that finished water to another
     public water system. Delivery may be through a direct connection or through the
     distribution system of one or more consecutive systems



                                                Page 12
Sources of Water Supply
5-1.10 Statement. (Effective Date: June 24, 1977)

The rules contained in this Subpart, together with the watershed rules and regulations set forth in
Parts 100 through 158 of this Title, have been promulgated to protect present or future sources of
water supply.


5-1.11 Applicability. (Effective Date: Jan 19, 1990)

The provisions of sections 5-1.10 through 5-1.15 of this Subpart shall apply, throughout the State
of New York, to all existing and proposed sources of water supply.


5-1.12 Water quality for existing sources of water supply. (Effective Date: May 26, 2004)

(a) Whenever the supplier of water determines or is advised by the State that one or more of the
    MCLs set forth in this Subpart are or may be exceeded; or that effectiveness of treatment
    processes diminishes to the extent that a violation of the treatment techniques or MCLs set
    forth in this Subpart may occur; or that any deleterious changes in raw water quality have
    occurred; or that a change in the character of the watershed or aquifer has been observed
    which may affect water quality; or that any combination of the preceding exists, the supplier
    of water shall notify the State and do the following:
       undertake a study to determine the cause or causes of such conditions, independent of
       known or anticipated treatment technology;
       modify existing or install treatment to comply, to the extent practicable, with sections 5-
       1.30, 5-1.50, 5-1.51 and 5-1.60 of this Subpart;
       initiate water sampling as needed to delineate the extent and nature of the cause of
       concern;
       investigate all or part of the watershed or aquifer to verify any existing or potential
       changes in the character of the sources of water supply; and
       submit a written report to the State within 30 days of the onset of the foregoing
       conditions summarizing the findings outlined in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this
       subdivision.

(b) The State may require the supplier of water to conduct sanitary surveys and to conduct water
    sampling related to watersheds and ground water aquifers which are sources of water supply
    to identify and evaluate the significance of existing and potential sources of pollution and to
    report the results to the State. Also, sanitary surveys shall be used to evaluate the adequacy of
    the public water system, the source or sources of water supply and the water treatment plant
    to produce a potable water.




                                               Page 13
5-1.13 Sampling and analytical requirements. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

The supplier of water shall collect raw water samples at a frequency prescribed by the State and
analyze such samples for contaminants using an approved method, with method exceptions as
listed in the Tables in section 5-1.52 of this Subpart, and by an approved laboratory as described
in section 5-1.74 of this Subpart.


5-1.14 Water quality for proposed sources of water supply. (Effective Date: January 19,
1990)

Before the approval of a source of water supply for public water system purposes, a report shall
be submitted to the State. Such report shall include, but may not be limited to, all of the
following:

(a) a summary of available raw water quality data for at least 10 years before the date of the
    report or as otherwise required by the State;

(b) a sanitary survey of the watershed or aquifer, with particular emphasis on water quality as
    affected by existing or potential spills, point and non-point discharges, and natural seasonal
    occurrences; and

a description of the proposed water treatment processes.


5-1.15 Limitation. (Effective Date: June 24, 1977)

If the information required is already available for the same source of water supply or if an
emergency exists which requires the development of an emergency source, the requirements of
section 5-1.14 of this Subpart shall not apply.




                                              Page 14
Planning, Siting Treatment and Approval
5-1.20 Applicability. (Effective Date: December 30, 1992)

The provisions of sections 5-1.20 through 5-1.33 of this Subpart shall apply to all public water
systems, provided the systems serve 15 or more service connections or serve 25 or more persons.


5-1.21 Siting requirements. (Effective Date: July 3, 1991)

Before a person shall enter a financial commitment for or initiate construction of a public water
system, such person shall notify the State and to the extent practicable, avoid locating part or all
of the public water system at a site which:
is subject to a significant risk from earthquake, floods, fires or other disasters; or

except for intake structures, is within the floodplain of a 100-year flood or is lower than any
   recorded high tide.


5-1.22 Approval of plans and completed works. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) No supplier of water shall make, install or construct, or allow to be made, installed or
    constructed, a public water system or any addition or deletion to or modification of a public
    water system until the plans and specifications have been submitted to and approved by the
    State. Materials used in the design, construction and repair of a public water system shall be
    lead-free. For this Subpart, lead-free shall mean:

       Solder or flux which contains no more than 0.2 percent lead.

       Pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings and fixtures which contain no more than a weighted
       average of 0.25 percent lead with respect to the wetted surfaces.

   The weighted average lead content of a pipe, pipe fitting, plumbing fitting, or fixture shall be
   calculated by using the following formula: For each wetted component, the percentage of
   lead is multiplied by the ratio of the wetted surface area of that component to the total wetted
   surface area of the entire product to arrive at the weighted percentage of lead of the
   component. The weighted percentage of lead of each wetted component is added together,
   and the sum of these weighted percentages constitutes the weighted average lead content of
   the product. The lead content of the material used to produce wetted components is used to
   determine compliance with subdivision (a)(2) of this section. For lead content of materials
   that are provided as a range, the maximum content of the range must be used for calculating
   the weighted average lead content.

(b) Approval of plans and specifications for public water systems shall be based on the following
    standards in their entirety. The State may allow deviations from these standards in
    accordance with procedures established by the commissioner.
       “Recommended Standards for Water Works”, (Appendix 5-A)


                                               Page 15
       Standards for Water Wells (Appendix 5-B)
       Special Requirements for Wells Serving Public Water Systems (Appendix 5-D)
(c) The State may approve such plans or may require such modification which is deemed
    necessary to protect public health or safety. Application for plan approval shall be made on a
    form prescribed by the department.

(d) A supplier of water shall receive the approval of the State before placing into service any
    public water system constructed under the requirements of this section.


5-1.23 Reporting emergencies. (Effective Date: March 11, 1992)

(a) The supplier of water shall not take, use, or cause to be taken for use water from any
    emergency source or stop or alter disinfection or other treatment processes without first
    having notified by telephone or telegram, and received the approval of, the State. On receipt
    of such notification, the State shall advise the supplier of water and interested local officials
    of the approved action or proposed action by the supplier of water to protect the public health
    during the emergency.

(b) The supplier of water must make State notification when he determines that the delivery of
    water is interrupted to a minimum of 25 individuals or 15 service connections, or to a
    minimum of one percent of the total number of individuals served or service connections,
    whichever is larger, for a period of four hours or more.

(c) A printed copy of this section shall be conspicuously posted in the office used by the supplier
    of water.


5-1.24 Approval of fluoridation of public water system. (Effective Date: April 6, 1987)

Fluorine compounds shall not be added to a public water system until a written application has
been submitted to, and written approval is granted by, the State.


5-1.25 Disinfection/Start-up of facilities. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) No spring basin, collecting basin, well, infiltration gallery, water main, pumping station,
    standpipe or reservoir shall be placed in service following cleaning or repairs until it has been
    disinfected in a manner approved by the State.

(b) For each operational period, before serving water to the public, all seasonal systems must
    demonstrate completion of a State approved start-up procedure.




                                               Page 16
5-1.26 Dewatering trenches. (Effective Date: January 19, 1990)

No repair to the public water system shall be made until the trench has been dewatered to a point
below the mains, valves or other structures. Every effort shall be made to prevent the entrance of
foreign material and seepage into the public water system.


5-1.27 Adequacy of distribution system. (Effective Date: June 24, 1981)

The public water system shall be maintained and operated by the supplier of water to assure a
minimum working pressure of 20 pounds per square inch at ground level at all points in the
distribution system. Measurement of pressure may be obtained from representative points of use.


5-1.28 Blowoff facilities. (Effective Date: June 24, 1977)

All blowoff drains or discharge pipes connected to the public water system should be terminated
at points where these structures will not be subject to flooding or otherwise subject to
contamination.


5-1.29 Pumping equipment. (Effective Date: July 3, 1991)

Pumping equipment of a public water system, for water which is not subject to later treatment,
shall be installed and operated to prevent contamination of the public water system. Whenever
priming is necessary, such pump shall be primed with water meeting the requirements of sections
5-1.51 and 5-1.52 of this Subpart.


5-1.30 Providing treatment for public water systems. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

The supplier of water shall provide such treatment as necessary to deliver to the consumer a
water conforming to the requirements of this section and determined using an approved method,
with method modifications as listed in the Tables in section 5-1.52 of this Subpart, and by an
approved laboratory as described in section 5-1.74 of this Subpart.

(a) Minimum treatment for a ground water source shall be disinfection by chlorination or other
    microbial contaminant treatment acceptable to the State in accordance with the provisions of
    section 5-1.22 of this Subpart. If chemical disinfection is used, the disinfectant residual
    concentration must be maintained at all times and under no circumstances shall be less than
    the required concentration for more than four hours. Unless other corrective action is
    approved by the State, any ground water source where fecal contamination has been
    observed, or where a significant deficiency may be causing or has the potential to cause the
    introduction of contamination into the water delivered to customers, must be treated to
    remove or inactivate 99.99% (4-log) of viruses. Continuous monitoring of active microbial
    treatment processes is required, except as provided in section 5-1.52 table 15 of this Subpart.




                                              Page 17
(b) Minimum treatment for surface water sources or ground water sources directly influenced by
    surface water shall be filtration and disinfection techniques, approved by the State in
    accordance with section 5-1.22 of this Subpart, capable of at least 99 percent removal of
    Cryptosporidium oocysts, 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts
    and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, between a point where the raw
    water is no longer subject to recontamination by surface water runoff and a point downstream
    before or at the first consumer. Compliance with this treatment technique is required for
    surface water sources or within 18 months after ground water sources are determined to be
    directly influenced by surface water, unless the department determines that the supplier of
    water can meet specific avoidance criteria as defined in subdivision (c) of this section.
    Required performance monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with section 5-1.52
    Table 10A of this Subpart. Compliance with these treatment technique requirements shall
    also include:
       filtration facilities designed and operated to meet performance standards in accordance
       with section 5-1.52 table 4A of this Subpart;
       For systems using chlorine, the free chlorine residual disinfection concentration in the
       water entering the distribution system must be at least 0.2 milligrams per liter and may
       not be less than the required minimum concentration for compliance for more than four
       hours. Systems using other chemical disinfectants shall maintain residual disinfection
       levels entering the distribution system comparable to requirements for systems using
       chlorination. Continuous monitoring is required, except as provided in section 5-1.52
       table 15 of this Subpart; and
       By June 8, 2004, any system that recycles spent filter backwash water, thickener
       supernatant, or liquids from dewatering process must return these flows through the
       processes of a system's existing conventional or direct filtration system.

(c) A public water system that uses a surface water source or a ground water source directly
    influenced by surface water which fails to comply with any of the following avoidance
    criteria shall develop and submit to the State, within three months of such failure to comply,
    a written plan for installing filtration and disinfection. Also, filtration and disinfection shall
    be installed, in accordance with subdivision (b) of this section, within 18 months of such
    failure to comply.
       Raw water fecal coliform concentrations must be equal to or less than 20 colonies per
       100 milliliters or total coliform concentration must be equal to or less than 100 colonies
       per 100 milliliters in at least 90 percent of measurements made over the previous six
       months that the system was in operation. Monitoring shall be conducted in accordance
       with section 5-1.52 table 11A of this Subpart. If both fecal and total coliform analyses are
       performed, the fecal coliform results will take precedence.
       Raw water turbidity levels must not exceed five nephelometric turbidity units unless the
       department determines that the turbidity was caused by an unusual and unpredictable
       event. No more than two such events in the previous 12 months or no more than five
       events in the previous 120 months that the system was in operation are allowed. An event
       means a series of consecutive days during which at least one turbidity measurement each



                                                Page 18
   day exceeds five nephelometric turbidity units. Monitoring is to be conducted in
   accordance with section 5-1.52 Table 10A of this Subpart.
   Disinfection must be sufficient to ensure at least 99.9 percent inactivation of Giardia
   lamblia cysts, 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses, and 99 or 99.9 percent inactivation of
   Cryptosporidium (per section 5-1.83(c)(2) of this Subpart), between a point where the
   raw water is no longer subject to recontamination by surface water runoff and a point
   downstream before or at the first consumer. Actual CT values must be equal to or greater
   than the required values found in section 5-1.52 Tables 14A through 14I of this Subpart,
   except for one day in each month that the system served water to the public, or except
   where the State determines that an additional failure in one month in the previous 12
   months was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable. The supplier
   of water must calculate the CT values of the system for each day the system is in
   operation to document satisfactory disinfection. The necessary parameters and related
   monitoring frequencies to conduct this evaluation include:
   (i) temperature of the disinfected water measured at least once per day at each residual
       disinfectant concentration sampling point;
   (ii) pH of the disinfected water, measured at least once per day at each chlorine residual
        disinfectant concentration sampling point by systems using chlorine;
   (iii) the disinfectant contact time (T), determined daily during peak hourly flow; and
   (iv) the residual disinfectant concentration (C), before or at the first customer, measured
        daily during peak hourly flow.
(4) The disinfection system must have redundant components to ensure continuous
    disinfection. Auxiliary power with automatic start and alarm is required at all disinfection
    facilities where a power outage would result in a loss or reduction in the ability of the
    system to maintain a disinfection concentration as required by this Subpart.
(5) For systems using chlorine, the free chlorine residual disinfection concentration in the
    water entering the distribution system must be at least 0.2 milligrams per liter and may
    not be less than the required minimum concentration for compliance for more than four
    hours, unless the State determines that any such failure was caused by circumstances that
    were unusual and unpredictable. Systems using other chemical disinfectants shall
    maintain residual disinfection levels entering the distribution system comparable to
    requirements for systems using chlorination. Continuous monitoring is required except
    as provided in section 5-1.52 table 15 of this Subpart.
(6) The disinfection residuals or the heterotrophic plate count results in the water in the
    distribution system must meet the requirements outlined in subdivision (g) of this section
    and section 5-1.52 Table 11 of this Subpart unless the State determines that the failure to
    meet the requirements was not caused by a deficiency in the treatment of the source
    water.
(7) The watershed control program must provide natural or man made barriers to the
    occurrence, transport and/or survival of Cryptosporidium oocysts, Giardia lamblia cysts
    and viruses. The watershed control program must include, but is not limited to the
    following:



                                          Page 19
(i) ownership or protective controls of the watershed, except where the supplier of water
     submits written justification to show that the travel time of the water to the intake is
     greater than 60 days under all but emergency conditions. Protective controls can
     include written agreements with landowners within the watershed but must include
     as a minimum the absence of any bathing beach as defined in Part 6-2 of this Title,
     except for a bathing beach owned and/or maintained by an individual for use by the
     individual's family or friends;
(ii) no new sewage discharges to any watercourse shall be allowed where the time of
     travel from the point of discharge to the intake is 60 days or less. Existing sewage
     discharges with a current State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (SPDES)
     permit issued by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation,
     where the time of travel from the point of discharge to the intake is 60 days or less,
     shall, as a minimum, have secondary treatment followed by sand filtration and
     disinfection at facilities designed to achieve 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation
     of Giardia lamblia cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses by
     June 29, 1993. Existing or new sewage discharges with a SPDES permit issued by
     the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, where the time of
     travel from the point of discharge to the intake is greater than 60 days, shall, as a
     minimum, have secondary treatment followed by sand filtration and disinfection at
     facilities designed to achieve 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of Giardia
     lamblia cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses by June 29,
     1993 or a later date set forth in a plan submitted to the commissioner and approved
     using the criteria for the long term plan as described in section 5-1.30(c)(7)(vii) of
     this Subpart. The sewage treatment facilities required herein shall be operated in
     conformance with their design specifications and the conditions of their SPDES
     permit;
(iii) watershed rules and regulations promulgated and enforced in accordance with Title I
     of Article 11 of the Public Health Law; including as a minimum prohibition or
     controls on waste discharges which contain or potentially may contain
     Cryptosporidium oocysts, Giardia lamblia cysts, and/or viruses;
(iv) identification and evaluation of pertinent geological, hydrological and physical
     characteristics or features and potential conditions or activities which may influence
     water quality;
(v) a monitoring and surveillance program to assess water quality and water quantity
     trends;
(vi) an annual report submitted by the supplier of water to the department describing
     watershed activities, especially activities that affect water quality, identifying new
     and existing water quality concerns and remediation efforts taken and any other
     reports required pursuant to adopted watershed rules and regulations. The annual
     report must be submitted to the department no later than the 10th of October of each
     year; and
(vii) a long term plan for the implementation of the watershed control program,
     including a description of the commitment of human and financial resources for such
     program shall be submitted to the commissioner for approval from systems that serve
     more than 100,000 persons, obtain water from a watershed or watersheds that
     involve multiple political subdivisions and own less than 25 percent of the land in the


                                      Page 20
            watershed. The approval shall be based on the exercise of a reasonable discretion by
            the commissioner in reviewing and accepting the proposed levels of human and
            fiscal resources to be committed for successful implementation of the plan, measured
            by projected cost of the administration, inspection, enforcement, land acquisition,
            sewage treatment plant upgrading and other activities and/or services related to such
            watershed control program, including the resolution of inherent water quality and
            quantity questions and the reliability of the method of funding. Failure to obtain the
            approval of the long term plan or failure to secure the required human or financial
            resources will result in a requirement to provide filtration, in accordance with the
            provisions of this Subpart. The approval of the long term plan shall be for a period of
            ten years, subject to further review and approval for successive ten year periods.
            Notwithstanding any approval granted pursuant hereto, if Federal or State law or
            regulation shall henceforth unconditionally mandate filtration of surface water
            sources, then any such approvals shall forthwith cease and terminate with filtration
            thereafter to be provided, in accordance with the provisions of this Subpart, when
            reasonably feasible.
   (8) The public water system must not have been identified as a source of a waterborne
       disease outbreak since 1980.
   (9) The public water system shall comply with the trihalomethane, haloacetic acid, bromate,
       and chlorite maximum contaminant levels and the maximum residual disinfectant levels
       in accordance with section 5-1.52 of this Subpart.
   (10) The public water system must not exceed a total coliform treatment technique trigger in
       accordance with section 5-1.52 of this Subpart in eleven months of the twelve previous
       months that the system served water to the public on an ongoing basis, unless the State
       determines that failure to meet this requirement was not caused by a deficiency in
       treatment of the source water.

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sections 5-1.12, 5-1.23, 5-1.51 or 5-1.77 of this
    Subpart, if the public water system fails to comply with the treatment technique and/or the
    monitoring requirements of subdivisions (a), (b), (c) or (g) of this section, fails to install the
    filtration and/or disinfection treatment required by this section or fails to comply with the
    avoidance criteria requirements contained in subdivision (c) of this section, the system
    violates this Subpart and shall make State and public notification, including any required
    mandatory health effects language. Pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section, if at any time
    the raw water turbidity exceeds five nephelometric turbidity units, the system shall consult
    with the State within 24 hours of learning of the exceedance. Based on this consultation, the
    State may determine that the exceedance constitutes a public health hazard, as found in
    section 5-1.1(bz)(4) of this Subpart, which requires a Tier 1 notification. When consultation
    does not take place within the 24 hour period, the water system must distribute a Tier 1
    notification no later than 48 hours after the system learns of the violation. Ground water
    systems that are required to provide 4-log virus treatment, surface water systems and Ground
    Water Under the Direct Influence of surface water (GWUDI) systems that use chemical
    disinfection must notify the State whenever residual disinfectant levels in the water entering
    the distribution system are less than the specified concentration pursuant to subdivisions (b)
    and (c) of this section. Any water system that uses chemical disinfection must make State



                                               Page 21
   notification whenever disinfectant residual levels entering the distribution system are not
   restored within four hours.

(e) The State may grant a waiver, on the submission of a written application, renewable for a
    period of up to three years, to the disinfection rule established by this section for a ground
    water source if:
       the record of the microbiological and physical characteristics for the ground water source
       or sources not directly influenced by surface water demonstrates that they conformed to
       the MCLs of this Subpart, for the 12 months immediately preceding the date of
       application for waiver; such record shall be established under procedures provided by the
       department;
       an environmental laboratory approved pursuant to Subpart 55-2 of this Title, is used by
       the supplier of water to provide monitoring of drinking water quality and delivery of
       drinking water in conformity with this Subpart;
       an active cross-connection control program to prevent the backflow or entry of
       undesirable and toxic substances into the water distribution system is adopted and
       maintained by the supplier of water, and such cross-connection control program shall
       include the maintenance of adequate distribution system pressures, in accordance with
       section 5-1.27 of this Subpart;
       watershed rules and regulations to protect such ground water source are adopted pursuant
       to the provisions of article 11 of the Public Health Law, updated as necessary, and
       administered by the supplier of water, or other watershed controls satisfactory to the State
       are adopted, updated and administered;
       all water storage facilities are adequately protected pursuant to section 5-1.32 of this
       Subpart; and
       all sources of the water supply are properly located, constructed and effectively protected
       and maintained.

(f) The State may waive the requirements of paragraphs (e)(3) through (6) of this section for a
    ground water source at a noncommunity water system or a community water system serving
    fewer than 50 dwelling units, based on periodic evaluation of a sanitary survey and the
    geology of the area; the chemical characteristics of the water; the location, construction and
    protection of the ground water source; and the method of water storage and distribution.

(g) When a chlorine-based chemical disinfectant is used, the residual disinfectant concentration
    in the distribution system, measured as free or combined chlorine shall be maintained at
    detectable concentrations at representative points in the distribution system, in accordance
    with the monitoring requirements in section 5-1.52 Table 11 of this Subpart. No more than
    five percent of the free chlorine residual samples shall be undetectable in any two
    consecutive months that the system serves water to the public. Chlorine residual or
    heterotrophic bacteria analyses shall be performed in accordance with section 5-1.52 Table
    11 of this Subpart. Monitoring for heterotrophic bacteria may be substituted for free chlorine
    residuals. A heterotrophic plate count result equal to or less than 500 colonies per milliliter is
    considered to be equivalent to a measurable free chlorine residual.


                                               Page 22
5-1.31 Cross connection control. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water shall implement a service protection program (also known as
    containment) which includes the following:
       requiring a protective device commensurate with the degree of hazard posed by a service
       connection;

       requiring the user of such connections to submit plans for the installation of protective
       devices to the supplier of water and/or the State for approval; and
       assuring all protective devices are inspected and tested by a certified backflow prevention
       device tester, as prescribed in subdivision (b) of this section, at the time of initial
       installation, after each repair, and annually thereafter. Records of such tests shall be made
       available to, reviewed by, and maintained by the supplier of water. All protective device
       tests and inspections shall be conducted by a certified backflow prevention device tester
       (“tester”).

(b) A certified backflow prevention device tester shall meet the following requirements:
       Initial certification and renewal requirements. Initial and/or renewal certifications for a
       certified backflow prevention device tester will be issued by a department-approved
       entity, when the applicant provides proof of satisfactory completion of a department-
       approved certified backflow prevention training course. The certification shall be valid
       for a period of three years.

       Conditions of certification
       (i) Upon issuance of a certification by a department-approved entity, the tester shall
            inform the department and the department-approved entity, within 30 days, of any
            changes in address or employment.
       (ii) The department has the authority to require any individual applying for certification
            or renewal certification as a certified backflow prevention device tester or any
            certified backflow prevention device tester to take a written, oral and/or practical
            skills validated examination, if the department deems such examination to be
            reasonably necessary to determine the applicant’s qualifications or to determine the
            certified tester’s knowledge, skills, ability and judgment. The results of the
            examination may be the sole basis for approval, disapproval or suspension of such
            certification or the basis for additional requirements, deemed appropriate by the
            department, before certification will be issued or reinstated.
       Recertification requirements.
       (i) An individual that allows his or her certification renewal to lapse after the expiration
           date is no longer certified to test applicable protective devices as outlined in this
           Subpart. If the individual meets the requirements outlined in this subdivision, within
           one year of the expiration date, the certification will be reinstated with a renewal
           period starting upon the date of expiration of the original certification and ending
           three years later.



                                              Page 23
       (ii) An individual that allows his or her certification renewal to lapse for more than one
            year after the expiration date will be required to repeat the initial certification
            requirements set forth in subdivision (b)(1) of this section.

(c) Enforcement.

   Upon notice and opportunity for a hearing, a tester’s certification may be suspended or
   revoked. Revocation or suspension may be based on, but not limited to, fraud or
   misrepresentation by the certified tester; gross incompetence or gross negligence on a
   particular occasion; or negligence or incompetence on more than one occasion. Examples of
   such conduct include, but are not limited to:
       making false statements or notations on legal or official records required by the
       department; or
       providing misleading statements to government officials or agents of the government
       regarding protective device testing/certification.

(d) The supplier of water may not allow a user to establish a separate source of water. However,
    if a user justifies the need for a separate source of water, the supplier of water shall protect
    the public water system from such separate source of water by ensuring that such source does
    not pose a hazard in the following manner:
(e) by requiring the user to regularly examine the quality of the separate water source;
       by approving the use of only those separate water sources which are properly developed,
       constructed, protected and found to meet the requirements of sections 5-1.51 and 5-1.52
       of this Subpart; and
       by filing such approvals with the State annually.

(e) All users of a public water system shall prevent cross-connections between the potable water
    piping system and any other piping system within the premises by installing internal
    protection in accordance with the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building
    Code and/or the local plumbing and building codes.

(f) Any installation, service, maintenance, testing, repair or modification of a protective device
    shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of any relevant county, city, town or
    village plumbing code. All individuals who perform testing of protective devices shall be
    certified in accordance with subdivision (b) of this section.


5-1.32 Protection of finished water storage facilities. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

Finished water storage facilities which deliver water to the user without later treatment shall be
covered, or the water from an uncovered finished water storage facility shall be continuously
treated to achieve inactivation or removal of at least 99.99 percent virus, 99.9 percent Giardia
lamblia, and 99 percent Cryptosporidium in a manner approved by the State, in accordance with
section 5-1.22(b) of this Subpart, before being discharged to the distribution system.


                                              Page 24
5-1.33 Water supply emergency plans. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) All community water systems that supply drinking water to more than 3,300 people shall
    submit a water supply emergency plan to the State. The plan shall identify and outline the
    steps necessary to ensure that potable water is available during all phases of a water supply
    emergency

(b) The water supply emergency plan shall include:
       Procedures to notify consumers during all phases of a water supply emergency.
       Criteria and procedures for determining, and the subsequent reporting of, critical water
       levels or safe yield of the source or sources of water.
       The identification of existing and future sources of water available during normal
       nonemergency and water supply emergency conditions.
       The identification of all available water storage. Available water storage includes source,
       transmission and distribution system storage.
       The identification, capacity and location of existing inter-connections. Identification of
       additional inter-connections needed to provide potable water during a water supply
       emergency.
       A specific action plan outlining all the steps to be carried out, taken or followed during a
       water supply emergency. The plan shall include a process for State notification,
       emergency notification rosters of key water supply personnel with current telephone
       numbers both business and home, and details of the follow-up corrective action process
       to minimize the reoccurrence of an emergency.
       The identification and implementation of procedures for water conservation and water
       use restrictions to be put in place during a water supply emergency.
       The identification and the procedures for prioritization of potable water users during a
       water supply emergency.
       The identification and availability of emergency equipment needed during a water supply
       emergency.
        The system's capacity and ability to meet peak water demands and fire-flow conditions
       concurrently during a water supply emergency.

(c) An all-hazard vulnerability analysis, including an analysis of vulnerability to terrorist attack
    and cyber attack, shall be performed on all components of the water system. System
    components include but are not limited to: the source or sources of water supply; water
    treatment plants; disinfection stations; pipes and valves; storage tanks; and system operations
    and management. The system shall take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that potable
    water can be and is available during a water supply emergency.

(d) Before the final submission of the water supply emergency plan to the State, the system shall
    publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area served by the community


                                              Page 25
   water system stating that the proposed water supply emergency plan is available for review
   and comment. The notice shall be printed at least once in each of two successive weeks.
   Public comment shall be accepted for at least fourteen days following the date of first
   publication. All public comment shall be submitted with the water supply emergency plan to
   the State.

(e) The water supply emergency plan shall be submitted to the State for review at least once
    every five years and within thirty days after major water facility infrastructure changes have
    been made. The system shall keep the emergency plan up to date, and shall provide updated
    communication and notification information to the State by December thirty-first of each
    year.

(f) Community water systems that supply drinking water to 3,300 or fewer people, non-transient
    noncommunity water systems, and noncommunity water systems may be required to prepare,
    update and submit to the State, a written water supply emergency plan for providing potable
    water during a water supply emergency.

(g) If more than one system is responsible for providing potable water to a community water
    system, the water supply emergency plan shall be prepared and submitted jointly by the
    systems.

(h) Information shall be exempt from public disclosure for public review and comment if it is
    determined by the water supplier that the information will pose a security risk to the
    operation of the water system. Upon the Commissioner’s request, the system shall provide a
    copy of the exempt information and justification for why said information should not be
    subject to public review and comment. A person who, without authorization, discloses any
    such assessment or information to another person who has not been authorized to receive
    such assessment or information shall be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to section 1125
    of the Public Health Law.




                                              Page 26
Control of Copper and Lead in Drinking Water
5-1.40 General Requirements and Action Levels. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

Applicability. The requirements of sections 5-1.40 through 5-1.48 of this Subpart shall apply to
all community water systems and nontransient, noncommunity water systems serving 15 or more
service connections or serving 25 or more persons.

Lead and copper action levels.

      (1)
    Analyte                           Action Level 1, 2

    Lead                              0.015 mg/L

    Copper                            1.3 mg/L

Notes:
1
  Analysis of lead and copper samples must be done by an approved laboratory as prescribed in section 5-1.74(a),
that demonstrates the ability to achieve a Practical Quantitation Level (PQL) for lead equal to 0.0005
milligrams/Liter (mg/L) and a PQL for copper equal to 0.050 mg/L.
2
  All lead and copper levels measured between the PQL and Method Detection Level (MDL) must be either reported
as measured or one-half the PQL specified in note 1. All levels below the lead and copper MDLs must be reported
as zero.


            The lead action level is exceeded if the concentration of lead in more than ten percent
           (90th percentile) of the tap water samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.42
           during any monitoring period exceeds 0.015 mg/L.
           The copper action level is exceeded if the concentration of copper in more than ten
           percent (90th percentile) of the tap water samples collected in accordance with section 5-
           1.42 during any monitoring period exceeds 1.3 mg/L.
           The 90th percentile lead and copper levels shall be computed as follows:
           (i) Place the results of all lead and copper samples taken during a monitoring period in
                ascending order from the sample with the lowest concentration to the sample with the
                highest concentration. Each sampling result will be assigned a number, ascending by
                single integers beginning with the number one for the sample with the lowest
                contaminant level. The number assigned to the sample with the highest contaminant
                level will be equal to the total number of samples taken.
           (ii) Multiply the number of samples taken during the monitoring period by 0.9.
           (iii) The contaminant concentration of the numbered sample obtained by the calculation
                in subdivision (b)(4)(ii) of this section is the 90th percentile contaminant level.
           (iv) For water systems serving fewer than 100 people that collect 5 samples per
                monitoring period, the 90th percentile is computed by taking the average of the
                highest and second highest concentration.


                                                    Page 27
       (v) For a public water system that has been allowed by the State to collect fewer than five
           samples under section 5-1.42(a)(3), the sample result with the highest concentration is
           considered the 90th percentile value.


5-1.41 Corrosion Control Treatment Steps and Requirements. (Effective Date: January 17,
2018)

(a) Each system shall complete the applicable corrosion control treatment requirements found in
    subdivision (c) of this section unless it is deemed to have optimized corrosion control as
    provided under subdivision (b) of this section.

(b) Optimized corrosion control. A system is deemed to have optimized corrosion control and is
    not required to complete the applicable corrosion control treatment steps identified in this
    section if the water system satisfies the criteria specified in one of the paragraphs (1) through
    (3) of this subdivision. Any such system deemed to have optimized corrosion control under
    this subdivision, and which has treatment in place, shall continue to operate and maintain
    optimal corrosion control treatment and meet any requirements that the State determines
    appropriate to ensure optimal corrosion control treatment is maintained.

       Any water system that serves 50,000 or fewer people is considered to have optimal
       corrosion control treatment if the water system meets the lead and copper action levels
       during each of two consecutive six-month monitoring periods conducted in accordance
       with section 5-1.42.
       Any water system may be deemed by the State to have optimized corrosion control
       treatment if the system demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State that it has conducted
       activities equivalent to applicable corrosion control steps. Water systems deemed to have
       optimized corrosion control under this paragraph shall operate in compliance with State-
       designated optimal water quality parameters and continue to conduct lead and copper tap
       and water quality parameter sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42(b)(3) and 5-
       1.43(b)(3). A system shall provide information to the State to support a determination
       under this subdivision which includes, but is not limited to:
       (i) the results of all samples collected for each of the water quality parameters in section
            5-1.43;
       (ii) a report explaining the test methods used by the water system to evaluate the
            corrosion control treatments listed in subdivision (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the results
            of all tests conducted, and the basis for the system's selection of optimal corrosion
            control treatment;
       (iii) a report explaining how corrosion control has been installed and how it is being
            maintained to insure minimal lead and copper concentrations at consumers' taps; and
       (iv) the results of first draw lead and copper tap water samples collected in accordance
            with section 5-1.42 for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods after corrosion
            control has been installed.
       A water system is deemed to have optimized corrosion control if it meets the copper
       action level and can demonstrate:


                                               Page 28
       (i) the difference between the results of the 90th percentile tap water lead level and the
            highest source water lead level is less than 0.005 mg/L for two consecutive six-month
            monitoring periods. The 90th percentile tap water lead level shall be sampled in
            accordance with section 5-1.42 and source water lead level shall be sampled in
            accordance with section 5-1.44; and
       (ii) a system’s highest source water lead level is below the Method Detection Limit, and
            the 90th percentile tap water lead level is less than or equal to 0.005 mg/L for two
            consecutive 6-month monitoring periods.
       Any water system deemed to have optimized corrosion control in accordance with this
       section shall continue monitoring for lead and copper in tap water no less frequently than
       once every three calendar years using the reduced number of sites specified in section 5-
       1.42(a)(3) and collecting the samples at times and locations specified in section 5-1.42(c),
       unless it meets the requirements for a nine year waiver as specified in section 5-1.42(f).
        Any system triggered into corrosion control because it is no longer deemed to have
       optimized corrosion control under this section shall implement corrosion control
       treatment in accordance with the deadlines in subdivision (c)(2) of this section. Any such
       system serving more than 50,000 persons shall adhere to the schedule specified in
       subdivision (c)(2) of this section for systems serving 50,000 or fewer persons, with the
       time periods for completing each step being triggered by the date the system is no longer
       deemed to have optimized corrosion control under this section.
       Any water system deemed to have optimized corrosion control shall notify the State in
       writing, pursuant of section 5-1.48(i), of any upcoming long-term change in treatment or
       addition of a new source. The water system shall obtain approval from the State before
       implementing the addition of a new source or long-term change in water treatment. The
       State may require any such system to conduct additional monitoring or to take other
       action the State deems appropriate to ensure that such systems maintain minimal levels of
       corrosion in the distribution system.

(c) Corrosion control treatment steps and deadlines:
       A system serving more than 50,000 persons shall complete the following corrosion
       control treatment steps, unless it is deemed to have optimized corrosion control as
       provided in subdivisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
       (i) Step 1: The water system shall conduct initial first draw lead and copper tap
            sampling and water quality parameter sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42
            and 5-1.43. If the lead or copper action level exceeds the 90th percentile, the water
            system shall conduct source water sampling in accordance with section 5-1.44 within
            a schedule specified by the State.
       (ii) Step 2: The water system shall complete corrosion control studies as specified by the
            State within 18 months after the end of the monitoring period during which the
            system exceeds one of the action levels.
       (iii) Step 3: The water system shall install optimal corrosion control treatment within 24
            months after the State designates such treatment.
       (iv) Step 4: After installation of optimal corrosion control treatment, the water system
            shall complete first draw lead and copper tap sampling and water quality parameter


                                             Page 29
    follow-up sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42(b)(2) and 5-1.43(b)(2) during
    the two consecutive six-month monitoring periods immediately following installation
    of treatment.
(v) Step 5: After State designation of water quality parameters for optimal corrosion
    control treatment, the water system shall operate in compliance with State-designated
    optimal water quality parameter values in accordance with subdivision (g) of this
    section; and continue to conduct first draw lead and copper tap sampling and water
    quality parameter sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42(b)(3) and 5-1.43(b)(3).
Systems serving 50,000 or fewer persons. Except as provided in subdivision (b) of this
section, a system that serves 50,000 or fewer persons shall complete the following
corrosion control treatment steps:
(i) Step 1: The water system shall conduct initial first draw lead and copper tap sampling
     in accordance with section 5-1.42 within a schedule specified by the State. If the lead
     or copper action level is exceeded at the 90th percentile the water system shall
     conduct water quality parameter sampling and source water sampling in accordance
     with sections 5-1.43 and 5-1.44.
(ii) Step 2: The water system shall recommend optimal corrosion control treatment within
     six months after the end of the monitoring period during which the system exceeds
     one of the action levels. Within 12 months after the end of the monitoring period
     during which a system exceeds the lead or copper action level, the State may
     designate optimal corrosion control treatment or require the system to perform
     corrosion control studies. If the State requires corrosion control studies to be
     conducted, the water system shall complete corrosion control studies as specified in
     subdivision (c)(3) of this section.
     (a) Systems serving populations greater than 3,300 but less than 50,000 shall perform
         such studies within 18 months after the end of the monitoring period during which
         the system exceeds the lead or copper action level.
     (b) Systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons shall perform such studies within 24
         months after the end of the monitoring period during which the system exceeds
         the lead or copper action level.
(iii) Step 3: The water system shall install optimal corrosion control treatment within 24
     months after the State designates such treatment.
(iv) Step 4: After installation of optimal corrosion control treatment, the water system
     shall complete first draw lead and copper tap sampling and water quality parameter
     follow-up sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42(b)(2) and 5-1.43(b)(2) during
     the two consecutive six-month monitoring periods immediately following installation
     of treatment.
(v) Step 5: After State designation of water quality parameters for optimal corrosion
     control treatment, the water system shall operate in compliance with State-designated
     optimal water quality parameter values in accordance with subdivision (g) of this
     section; and continue to conduct first draw lead and copper tap sampling and water
     quality parameter sampling in accordance with sections 5-1.42(b)(3) and 5-1.43(b)(3).
Content of corrosion control studies. Corrosion control studies shall follow methods that
include but are not limited to the following:



                                      Page 30
       (i) an evaluation of the effectiveness of each of the following treatments, and, if
            appropriate, combinations of the following treatments using standard engineering
            tests on other systems of similar size, water chemistry and distribution system
            configuration:
            (a) alkalinity and pH adjustment;
            (b) calcium hardness adjustment; and
            (c) the addition of a phosphate or silicate based corrosion inhibitor at a concentration
                sufficient to maintain an effective residual concentration in all test tap samples;
       (ii) measurements of appropriate water quality parameters to assess performance of
            corrosion control including: lead; copper; pH; alkalinity; calcium; conductivity;
            temperature; silica or orthophosphate;
       (iii) an assessment of effectiveness of treatment including the potential for adverse effects
            on other water quality treatment processes; and
       (iv) identification of the optimal corrosion control treatment(s) for the system, including
            a rationale of the treatment steps for consideration by the State.
       Conditions for ceasing treatment steps. Any water system that serves 50,000 or fewer
       people. and that is required to complete the corrosion control steps due to its exceedance
       of the lead or copper action level, may cease completing the treatment steps whenever the
       water system meets both action levels during each of two consecutive six-month
       monitoring periods. The lead and copper results from both monitoring periods shall be
       submitted to the State for approval for ceasing treatment steps. If an action level is
       exceeded in a later monitoring period the water system shall complete the remaining
       applicable treatment steps.

(d) Designation of optimal corrosion control treatment. Based upon consideration of available
   information including, where applicable, corrosion control studies performed under
   subdivision (c) of this section and a system's proposed treatment alternative, the State will
   either:
        approve the corrosion control treatment option recommended by the system; or
       require alternative corrosion control treatment(s) as specified by the State. The State may
       also ask for additional information or modifications.

(e) Installation of optimal corrosion control. Each system shall properly install and operate
   throughout its distribution system the optimal corrosion control treatment(s) approved by the
   State under subdivision (d) of this section.

(f) State review of treatment and designation of optimal water quality control parameters. Based
    upon a review of the results of lead and copper tap water samples and water quality parameter
    samples submitted to the State by the water system from both before and after the installation
    of optimal corrosion control treatment, the State shall determine whether the system has
    properly installed and operated the optimal corrosion control treatment, and designate water
    quality parameter values, or a range of values, within which the system must operate. Such
    water parameters shall include:




                                              Page 31
       A minimum value or a range of values for pH measured at each entry point to the
       distribution system;
       A minimum pH value, measured in all tap samples. Such value shall be equal to or
       greater than 7.0, unless the State determines that meeting a pH level of 7.0 is not
       technologically feasible or is not necessary for the system to optimize corrosion control;
       If a corrosion inhibitor is used, a minimum concentration or a range of concentrations for
       the inhibitor, measured at each entry point to the distribution system and in all tap
       samples, that the State determines is necessary to form a passivating film on the interior
       walls of the pipes of the distribution system;
       If alkalinity is adjusted as part of optimal corrosion control treatment, a minimum
       concentration or a range of concentrations for alkalinity, measured at each entry point to
       the distribution system and in all tap samples; and
    (5) If calcium carbonate stabilization is used as part of corrosion control, a minimum
       concentration or a range of concentrations for calcium, measured in all tap samples.

The values for the applicable water quality control parameters listed above shall be those that the
State determines to reflect optimal corrosion control treatment for the system. The State may
designate values for additional water quality control parameters determined by the State to
reflect optimal corrosion control for the system. The State shall notify the system in writing of
these determinations and explain the basis for its decisions.

(g) Continued operation and maintenance.
    (1) All systems optimizing corrosion control shall continue to operate and maintain optimal
       corrosion control treatment, including maintaining water quality parameters at or above
       minimum values or within ranges designated by the State under subdivision (f) of this
       section for all samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.43(b)(3) and section 5-
       1.43(c). Compliance with the requirements of this paragraph shall be determined every
       six months, as specified in section 5-1.42(b)(3). A water system is out of compliance
       with the requirements of this paragraph if it has excursions for any State-designated
       parameter on more than nine (9) days during any six-month period. An excursion occurs
       whenever the daily value for one or more of the water quality parameters measured at a
       sampling location is below the minimum value or outside the range designated by the
       State. The State has the discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors from this
       calculation. Daily values are calculated as follows:
       (i) On days when more than one measurement for the water quality parameter is
            collected at the sampling location, the daily value shall be the average of all results
            collected during the day regardless of whether they are collected through continuous
            monitoring, grab sampling, or a combination of both.
       (ii) On days when only one measurement for the water quality parameter is collected at
            the sampling location, the daily value shall be the result of that measurement.
       (iii) On days when no measurement is collected for the water quality parameter at the
            sampling location, the daily value shall be the daily value calculated on the most
            recent day on which the water quality parameter was measured at the sample site.


                                              Page 32
      Modification of State treatment decisions. A water system may request a modification of
      its State designated optimal corrosion control treatment. The request shall be submitted in
      writing and include the reason for the modification along with supporting data.


5-1.42 Monitoring Requirements for Lead and Copper in Tap Water. (Effective Date:
January 17, 2018)

(a) Sample Requirements.
      Sample site location.
      (i) Each water system shall complete a materials evaluation of its distribution system in
          order to identify a pool of targeted sampling sites that meets the requirements of this
          section, and which is sufficiently large to ensure that the water system can collect the
          number of lead and copper tap samples required in subdivision (a)(3) of this section.
          All sites from which first draw samples are collected shall be selected from this pool
          of targeted sampling sites. Sampling sites may not include faucets that have point-of-
          use or point-of-entry treatment devices designed to remove inorganic contaminants.
      (ii) The public water system shall review sources of information listed below in order to
           identify a sufficient number of sampling sites. In addition, the system shall seek to
           collect such information, where possible, in the course of its normal operations (e.g.,
           checking service line material when reading water meters or performing maintenance
           activities):
           (a) All plumbing codes, permits, and records in the files of the building department(s)
               which indicate the plumbing materials that are installed within publicly and
               privately owned structures connected to the distribution system;
           (b) All inspections and records of the distribution system that indicate the material
               composition of the service connections that connect a structure to the distribution
               system; and
           (c) All existing water quality information which includes the results of all prior
               analyses of the system or individual structures connected to the system indicating
               locations that may be particularly susceptible to high lead or copper
               concentrations.
      (iii)The pool of targeted sampling sites for community water systems shall consist of:
           (a) Structures containing lead pipes, copper pipes with lead solder installed after
               1982; and/or served by a lead service line. Sampling sites shall be selected from
               the following building types, in this order, until each building type is exhausted
               before moving to the next building type:
                    (i) residential single family (Tier 1 sample sites);
                    (ii) multiple-family residence where at least 20 percent of the structures
                         served by the water system are multiple-family residences (Tier 1 sample
                         sites);
                    (iii) any community water system with insufficient tier 1 sampling sites shall
                         complete its sampling pool with “Tier 2 sampling sites”, consisting of
                         buildings, including multiple-family residences that contain copper pipes
                         with lead solder installed after 1982 or lead pipes; and/or served by a lead
                         service line: (Tier 2 sample sites).


                                              Page 33
   (b) Where insufficient sites are available meeting the criteria of clause (a), the
       sampling pool shall be completed using single family residences that contain
       copper pipes with lead solder installed before 1983 (Tier 3 samples sites).
   (c) Where insufficient sampling sites are available meeting the criteria of clauses (a)
       and (b), the sampling pool shall be completed using representative sites that
       contain plumbing materials commonly found throughout the water system’s
       distribution system.
   (d) Any water system whose distribution system contains lead service lines shall
       draw 50 percent of the samples it collects during each monitoring period from
       sites that contain lead pipes, or copper pipes with lead solder, and 50 percent of
       the samples from sites served by a lead service line. A water system that cannot
       identify a sufficient number of sampling sites served by a lead service line shall
       collect first-draw samples from all of the sites identified as being served by such
       lines.
(iv) The pool of targeted sampling sites for a nontransient noncommunity water system
     shall consist of structures that:
     (a) contain copper pipes and leaded solder joints installed after 1982 or contain lead
         pipes; and/or
     (b) are served by a lead service line.
(v) A nontransient noncommunity water system with insufficient Tier 1 sampling sites
     shall complete its sampling pool with sampling sites having copper pipes with lead
     solder joints installed before 1983. If additional sites are needed to complete the
     sampling pool, the nontransient non-community water system shall use representative
     sites throughout the distribution system.
Sample collection methods.
Samples shall be collected in a manner that will reasonably reflect potential lead levels
delivered to user taps in accordance with 40 CFR 141.86(b)(2).
(i) All samples for lead and copper shall be collected from user taps and shall be first
     draw samples with the following exceptions: lead service line samples collected
     under section 5-1.45(b)(2); or, if a system meets the criteria in section 5-1.47(g) (e.g.,
     prisons and hospitals).
(ii) Each first-draw tap sample for lead and copper shall be one liter in volume and have
     stood motionless in the plumbing system of each sampling site for at least six hours.
     First-draw samples from residential housing shall be collected from the cold water
     kitchen tap or bathroom sink tap. First-draw samples from a nonresidential building
     shall be one liter in volume and shall be collected at an interior tap from which water
     is typically drawn for consumption. Non-first-draw samples collected in lieu of first-
     draw samples pursuant to subdivision (a)(2)(iii) of this section shall be one liter in
     volume and shall be collected at an interior tap from which water is typically drawn
     for consumption. First-draw samples may be collected by the system or the system
     may allow residents to collect first-draw samples after instructing the residents of the
     sampling procedures specified in this paragraph. To avoid problems of residents
     handling nitric acid, acidification of first-draw samples may be done up to 14 days
     after the sample is collected. After acidification to resolubilize the metals, the sample
     must stand in the original container for the time specified in the approved EPA


                                        Page 34
     method before the sample can be analyzed. If a system allows residents to perform
     sampling, the system may not challenge, based on alleged errors in sample collection,
     the accuracy of sampling results.
(iii) Each service line sample shall be one liter in volume and have stood motionless in
     the lead service line for at least six hours. Lead service line samples shall be collected
     in one of the following three ways:
     (a) At the tap after flushing the volume of water between the tap and the lead service
          line. The volume of water shall be calculated based on the interior diameter and
          length of the pipe between the tap and the lead service line;
     (b) Tapping directly into the lead service line; or
     (c) If the sampling site is a building constructed as a single-family residence,
          allowing the water to run until there is a significant change in temperature which
          would be indicative of water that has been standing in the lead service line.
(iv) A water system shall collect each first draw tap sample from the same sampling site
     from which it collected a previous sample. If, for any reason, the water system cannot
     gain entry to a sampling site to collect a follow-up tap sample, the system may collect
     the follow-up tap sample from another sampling site in its sampling pool as long as
     the new site meets the same targeting criteria, and is within reasonable proximity of
     the original site.
(v) A non-transient non-community water system, or a community water system that
     meets the criteria of 40 CFR 141.85(b)(7), that does not have enough taps that can
     supply first draw samples, as defined in 40 CFR 141.2, may apply to the State in
     writing to substitute non-first-draw samples. Such systems must collect as many first-
     draw samples from appropriate taps as possible and identify sampling times and
     locations that would likely result in the longest standing time for the remaining sites.
     The State has the discretion to waive the requirement for prior State approval of non-
     first-draw sample sites selected by the system, either through State regulation or
     written notification to the system.
 Number of samples. A water system conducting standard monitoring shall collect at least
one lead and copper tap sample during each monitoring period specified in subdivision
(b) of this section from the number of sampling sites listed in the table below under
“Standard Monitoring.” A water system conducting reduced monitoring shall collect at
least one lead and copper tap sample during each monitoring period specified in
subdivision (c) of this section from the number of sampling sites listed in the table below
under “Reduced Monitoring.” Such reduced monitoring sites shall be representative of
the sites required for standard monitoring.

If a public water system has fewer than five drinking water taps that can be used for
human consumption and that meet the sample site criteria of subdivision (a)(1)(iii) of this
section to reach the required number of sample sites listed in the following table, the
system may collect at least one sample from each tap and then collect additional samples
from those taps on different days during the monitoring period to meet the required
number of sites; or, with written State approval, collect fewer samples provided that all
taps that can be used for human consumption are sampled. The State must approve this
reduction of the minimum number of samples in writing based on a request from the
system or onsite verification by the State. The State must specify sampling locations


                                        Page 35
       when a system is conducting reduced monitoring. A public water system may also apply
       to the State in writing to substitute non-first-draw samples. Such systems must collect as
       many first-draw samples from appropriate taps as possible and identify sampling times
       and locations that would likely result in the longest standing time for the remaining sites.




                Population Served      Standard Monitoring Reduced Monitoring
                                          Number of Sites         Number of Sites
                     >100,000                   100                       50
                10,001 to 100,000                60                       30
                  3,301 to 10,000                40                       20
                   501 to 3,300                  20                       10
                    101 to 500                   10                       5
                       ≤100                       5                       5


(b) Standard Monitoring. Required samples shall be collected during six-month monitoring
    periods, beginning January 1 or July 1 of each calendar year.
       All systems shall monitor during each six-month monitoring period until:
       (i) the system exceeds the lead or copper action level and is therefore required to
            implement the corrosion control treatment requirements under section 5-1.41, in
            which case the system shall continue standard monitoring; or
       (ii) the system is deemed to have optimized corrosion control in accordance with section
            5-1.41(b) in which case the system may reduce monitoring in accordance with
            subdivision (c) of this section
       Monitoring after installation of corrosion control and/or source water treatment. Any
       system which installs corrosion control treatment or source water treatment shall monitor
       during each six-month monitoring period following the installation of treatment with the
       first monitoring period to begin either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first.
       (i) Any system which installs source water treatment pursuant to section 5-1.45(a)(2)(i)
            shall monitor during two consecutive six-month monitoring periods by the date
            specified in section 5-1.45(a)(2)(ii).
       Monitoring after State designates water quality parameter values for optimal corrosion
       control. After the State designates the values for water quality parameters under section
       5-1.41(f), the system shall monitor during each six-month monitoring period following
       designation of water quality parameter values with the first monitoring period to begin
       either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first.




                                              Page 36
(c) Reduced monitoring.
       A system serving 50,000 or fewer persons that meets the lead and copper action levels
       during each of two consecutive six-month monitoring periods may reduce the number of
       samples in accordance with subdivision (a)(3) of this section, and reduce the frequency of
       sampling to once per year. A system serving 50,000 or fewer persons that meets the lead
       and copper action levels during three consecutive years under reduced monitoring may
       reduce the frequency of monitoring for lead and copper from annually to once every three
       years. Samples collected during the initial two six-month monitoring periods may be
       accepted as monitoring for the first year of a three-year reduced monitoring frequency. A
       system serving 50,000 or fewer persons collecting fewer than five samples as specified in
       subdivision (a)(3) of this section that meets the lead and copper action levels during each
       of two consecutive six-month monitoring periods may reduce the frequency of sampling
       to once per year. The system may not reduce the number of samples required to below
       the minimum of one sample per available tap. This sampling shall begin during the
       calendar year immediately following the end of the second consecutive six-month
       monitoring period.
       Any water system that has optimal corrosion control treatment installed that meets the
       lead action level and maintains the range of values for optimal corrosion control
       treatment during each of two consecutive six-month monitoring periods may reduce the
       frequency of monitoring to once per year and reduce the number of lead and copper
       samples in accordance with subdivision (a)(3) of this section if it receives written
       approval from the State. This sampling shall begin during the calendar year immediately
       following the end of the second consecutive six-month monitoring period. Samples
       collected during the initial two six-month monitoring periods can be applied to the first
       year of a three-year reduced monitoring frequency.

       Upon written approval from the State, any water system that has optimal corrosion
       control treatment installed that meets the lead action level and maintains the range of
       values for the water quality control parameters reflecting optimal corrosion control
       treatment during three consecutive years of monitoring may reduce the frequency of
       monitoring for lead and copper from annually to once every three years. Samples
       collected once every three years shall be collected no later than every third calendar year.
       A water system on a reduced monitoring schedule shall collect these samples from
       representative sites included in the pool of targeted sampling sites identified in
       subdivision (a) of this section. Systems sampling annually or less frequently shall
       conduct the lead and copper tap sampling during the months of June, July, August, or
       September unless the State has approved a different sampling period in accordance with
       subdivision (c)(3)(i) of this section.
       (i) The State, upon request by a water system, may approve a different period for
           conducting the lead and copper tap sampling for systems on a reduced monitoring
           schedule. Such a period shall be no longer than four consecutive months and shall
           represent a time of normal operation where the highest levels of lead are most likely
           to occur. This sampling shall begin during the calendar year immediately following
           the end of the second consecutive six-month monitoring period for systems initiating
           annual monitoring and during the three-year period following the end of the third


                                              Page 37
     consecutive calendar year of annual monitoring for systems initiating triennial
     monitoring.
(ii) Systems monitoring annually, that have been collecting samples during the months of
     June through September and that receive State approval to alter their sample
     monitoring period under subdivision (c)(3)(i) of this section, shall collect their next
     round of samples during a time period that ends no later than 21 months after the
     previous round of sampling. Systems monitoring triennially that have been collecting
     samples during the months of June through September, and receive State approval to
     alter the sampling collection period as per subdivision (c)(3)(i) of this section, shall
     collect their next round of samples during a time period that ends no later than 45
     months after the previous round of sampling. Subsequent rounds of sampling shall be
     collected annually or triennially, as required by this section. Water systems with
     waivers that serve 50,000 or fewer persons that have been collecting samples during
     the months of June through September and choose to alter their sample collection
     period under subdivision (c)(3)(i) of this section shall collect their next round of
     samples before the end of the 9 year period.
Any water system that demonstrates for two consecutive 6-month monitoring periods that
the tap water lead level is less than or equal to 0.005 mg/L and the tap water copper level
is less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L, at the 90th percentile calculated in accordance with
section 5-1.41(c), may reduce the number of samples in accordance with subdivision
(a)(3) of this section and reduce the frequency of sampling to once every three calendar
years.
Conditions requiring a return to standard monitoring.
(i) A system serving 50,000 or fewer persons subject to reduced monitoring that does not
     have corrosion control treatment installed and that exceeds the lead or copper action
     level shall resume standard monitoring at the standard number of sampling sites every
     six months in accordance with subdivision (b) of this section. Such a system shall
     also conduct water quality parameter monitoring in accordance with section 5-
     1.43(b). This monitoring shall begin during the six-month monitoring period
     immediately following the lead or copper action level exceedance with the first
     monitoring period to begin either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first. Any
     such system may resume reduced monitoring if it meets the reduced monitoring
     criteria as specified in subdivision (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) Any water system that has optimal corrosion control treatment installed that fails to
     meet the lead action level during any four-month monitoring period, or that fails to
     operate at or above the minimum value or within the range of values for the water
     quality parameters specified by the State under section 5-1.41(f) for more than nine
     days in any six-month monitoring period specified in section 5-1.43(b)(3) shall
     resume standard monitoring at the standard number of sampling sites every six
     months in accordance with subdivision (b) of this section, and resume standard
     monitoring for water quality parameters in accordance with section 5-1.43(b). This
     standard monitoring shall begin during the six-month monitoring period immediately
     following the water quality parameter excursion or lead action level exceedance with
     the first monitoring period to begin either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first.
     Any such system may resume reduced monitoring if it meets the reduced monitoring
     criteria as specified in subdivision (c)(1) of this section.


                                       Page 38
       Any water system subject to reduced monitoring that either adds a new source of water or
       changes any water treatment shall notify the State in writing within 60 days of any
       proposed changes. The State may require any system that makes treatment or source
       changes to resume standard monitoring in accordance with subdivision (b) of this section
       or take other appropriate steps such as increased water quality parameter monitoring or
       re-evaluation of its corrosion control treatment given the potentially different water
       quality considerations. Any proposed changes to add a new source or long-term change in
       treatment must be consistent with section 5-1.22(a) and approved by the State prior to
       implementation.

(d) Additional monitoring by systems. The results of any monitoring conducted in addition to the
    minimum requirements of this section shall be considered by the system and the State in
    making any determinations (i.e., calculating the 90th percentile lead or copper level) under
    sections 5-1.40 through 5-1.48.

(e) Invalidation of lead or copper tap water samples. The State may invalidate a lead or copper
    tap water sample if one of the following conditions is met.
       The laboratory establishes that improper sample analysis caused erroneous results.
       The State determines that the sample was taken from a site that did not meet the site
       selection criteria of this section.
       The sample container was damaged in transit.
       There is substantial reason to believe that the sample was subject to tampering.

   If a sample is invalidated, it does not count toward determining lead or copper 90th percentile
   levels or toward meeting the minimum monitoring requirements for that system. To
   invalidate a sample, the decision and the rationale for the decision must be documented in
   writing.

   The system shall submit to the State, for invalidation determination, the results it believes
   should be invalidated along with supporting documentation and the rationale for supporting
   invalidation of the samples. If after invalidation of sample results, the system has too few
   samples to meet minimum sampling requirements, replacement samples shall be taken as
   soon as possible, but no later than 20 days after invalidation or by the end of the applicable
   monitoring period, whichever is later. Replacement samples apply only to the monitoring
   period associated with the original sample, and shall be taken from the same location. If
   resampling from the same location is not possible or the sample site was invalidated, the
   resample may be taken from other sites in the sampling pool not already used for sampling
   during that monitoring period.

(f) Monitoring waivers for systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons. Any water system that
    serves 3,300 or fewer persons and meets the criteria in this subdivision may be eligible for a
    waiver to reduce monitoring of lead and copper to once every nine years (“full waiver”), or
    only for lead, or only for copper (“partial waiver”). The system must demonstrate that its
    distribution system and service lines and all drinking water supply plumbing, including


                                              Page 39
plumbing conveying drinking water within all residences and buildings connected to the
system, are free of lead-containing materials and/or copper-containing materials as those
terms are defined as follows:
   Lead. To qualify for a full waiver or a waiver of the tap water monitoring requirements of
   lead (i.e. a “lead waiver”), the water system must provide certification and supporting
   documentation to the State that the system is free of all lead-containing materials, as
   follows:
   (i) It contains no plastic pipes which contain lead plasticizers, or plastic service lines
        which contain lead plasticizers; and
   (ii) It is free of lead service lines, lead pipes, lead soldered pipe joints, and leaded brass
        or bronze alloy fittings and fixtures, unless such fittings and fixtures meet the
        specifications of any standard established pursuant to section 5-1.22(a) (Approval of
        Plans and Completed Works).
   Copper. To qualify for a full waiver or a waiver of the tap water monitoring requirements
   of copper (i.e. a “copper waiver”), the water system must provide certification and
   supporting documentation to the State that the system contains no copper pipes or copper
   service lines.

   Approval of waiver application. The system will be notified of the State’s determination
   in writing, setting forth the basis for its decision and any condition of the waiver. The
   System may be required to perform specific activities (e.g., limited monitoring, periodic
   outreach to customers to remind them to avoid installation of materials that might void
   reduced monitoring) to avoid the risk of lead or copper concentration of concern in tap
   water. A system serving fewer than 3,300 persons must continue monitoring for lead and
   copper at the tap as required in subdivision (f)(1)-(4) of this section, as appropriate, until
   it receives written notification that the reduced monitoring has been approved.
   Monitoring frequency for systems with waivers.
   (i) A system with a full waiver must conduct tap water monitoring for lead and copper in
        accordance with subdivision (c)(4) of this section at the reduced number of sampling
        sites identified in subdivision (a)(3) of this section at least once every nine years and
        provide the materials certification specified in subdivision (f) of this section for both
        lead and copper to the State along with the monitoring results. Samples collected
        every nine years must be collected no later than every ninth calendar year.
   (ii) A system with a partial waiver monitoring for a single contaminant must conduct tap
        water monitoring for that contaminant in accordance with subdivision (c)(4) of this
        section at the reduced number of sampling sites specified in subdivision (a)(3) of this
        section at least once every nine years and provide the materials certification specified
        in subdivision (f) of this section pertaining to the contaminant along with the
        monitoring results. Such systems must also continue to monitor for the contaminant
        not on reduced monitoring in accordance with requirements of subdivisions (b)(1)
        through (b)(3) and (c) of this section, as appropriate.
   (iii)Any water system with a full or partial wavier must notify the State in writing in
        accordance with section 5-1.48(a)(3) of any upcoming long-term change in treatment
        or addition of a new source. The State must review and approve the addition of a new
        source or change in water treatment before it is implemented by the water system.


                                           Page 40
     The State has the authority to require the system to add or modify waiver conditions
     (e.g., require recertification that the system is free of lead-containing and/or copper-
     containing materials require additional round(s) of monitoring), if it deems such
     modifications are necessary to address treatment or source water changes at the
     system.
(iv) If a system with a full or partial waiver becomes aware that it is no longer free of
     lead-containing or copper-containing materials, as appropriate, (e.g., as a result of
     new construction or repairs), the system must notify the State in writing no later than
     60 days after becoming aware of such a change.
Continued eligibility. Systems may continue to be eligible for a waiver, and such waiver
will renew automatically, unless any of the conditions listed in subparagraphs (i)-(iii) of
this paragraph occurs. If a waiver is not renewed, the system shall meet the requirements
for action level exceedances or for the three-year reduced monitoring cycle, as
appropriate. A system whose waiver has been revoked may re-apply for a waiver at such
time as it again meets the appropriate materials and monitoring criteria of subdivisions
(f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(i) A system with a full waiver or a lead waiver no longer satisfies the materials criteria
     of subdivision (f)(1)(i) of this section or has a 90th percentile lead level greater than
     0.005 mg/L.
(ii) A system with a full waiver or a copper waiver no longer satisfies the materials
     criteria of subdivision (f)(2) of this section or has a 90th percentile copper level
     greater than 0.65 mg/L.
(iii)The State notifies the system, in writing, that the waiver has been revoked, setting
     forth the basis of its decision.
Requirements following waiver revocation. A system whose full or partial waiver has
been revoked by the State is subject to the corrosion control treatment and lead and
copper tap water monitoring requirements, as follows:
(i) If the system exceeds the lead and/or copper action level, the system must implement
     corrosion control treatment as specified in section 5-1.41(c)(2), and any other
     applicable requirements.
(ii) If the system meets both the lead and the copper action level, the system must
     monitor for lead and copper at the tap no less frequently than once every three years
     using the reduced number of sample sites specified in section 5-1.43(a)(2).
Any water system with a full or partial waiver shall notify the State in writing of any
upcoming long-term change in treatment or addition of a new source, consistent with
section 5-1.22(a) and approved by the State prior to implementation. The State must
review and approve the addition of a new source or long-term change in water treatment
before it is implemented by the water system. The State may require the system to add or
modify waiver conditions (e.g., require recertification that the system is free of lead-
containing and/or copper-containing materials, require additional round(s) of
monitoring), if it deems such modifications are necessary to address treatment or source
water changes at the system.




                                       Page 41
5-1.43 Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters. (Effective Date: January 17,
2018)

All systems serving over 50,000 persons and systems that exceed the lead or copper action level
shall monitor water quality parameters in addition to lead and copper in tap water in accordance
with this section.

(a) Sample requirements.
       Sample collection method.

    Distribution system (tap) samples shall be representative of water quality throughout the
   distribution system, taking into account the number of persons served, the different sources
   of water, the different treatment methods employed by the system, and seasonal variability.
   Distribution system sampling under this section is not required to be conducted at taps
   targeted for lead and copper sampling under section 5-1.42(a).

       (i) Entry point samples to the distribution system shall be from locations representative of
       each source after treatment. If a system draws water from more than one source and the
       sources are combined before distribution, the system shall sample at entry point(s)
       representative of normal operating conditions.
   (2) Number of samples.
       (i) A water system conducting standard monitoring shall collect two samples for
           applicable water quality parameters during each monitoring period specified in
           subdivision (b) of this section from the number of distribution system sampling sites
           listed in the table below under “Standard Monitoring.” A water system conducting
           reduced monitoring shall collect two samples for applicable water quality parameters
           during each monitoring period specified in subdivision (c) of this section from the
           number of distribution system sampling sites listed in the table below under “Reduced
           Monitoring.” Such reduced monitoring sites shall be representative of the sites
           required for standard monitoring.


                                   Standard Monitoring              Reduced Monitoring
      Population Served
                                        (Sample Sites)                   (Sample Sites)
           >100,000                         25                               10
       10,001 to 100,000                     10                                7
        3,301 to 10,000                       3                                3
         501 to 3,300                         2                                2
          101 to 500                          1                                1
             <101                             1                                1

       (ii) A water system conducting monitoring in accordance with subdivision (b)(1) of this
            section shall collect two entry point samples for each applicable water quality


                                             Page 42
          parameter at each entry point to the distribution system during each six-month
          monitoring period. A water system conducting monitoring in accordance with
          subdivisions (b)(2), (b)(3), and (c) of this section shall collect one entry point sample
          for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution
          system, or each applicable entry point in accordance with subdivision (b)(2)(iii), at
          the frequency specified in subdivision (b)(2)(ii).

(b) Standard Monitoring. Required samples shall be collected during six-month monitoring
    periods, beginning January 1 or July 1 of each calendar year.
       Initial sampling. All systems serving more than 50,000 persons shall measure the
       applicable water quality parameters during each six-month monitoring period specified in
       section 5-1.42(b)(1). All systems serving 50,000 or fewer persons shall measure the
       applicable water quality parameters during each six-month monitoring period during
       which the system exceeds the lead or copper action level. Applicable water quality
       parameters at taps and entry points include: pH; alkalinity; conductivity; water
       temperature; calcium; and orthophosphate or silica, as appropriate to the corrosion
       control treatment used.
       Monitoring after installation of corrosion control. Any system which installs optimal
       corrosion control treatment shall measure the water quality parameters at the locations
       and frequencies specified below during each six-month monitoring period specified in
       section        5-1.42(b)(2).
       (i) two samples shall be collected at taps in the distribution system for the following
            parameters: pH; alkalinity; calcium; and orthophosphate or silica, as appropriate to
            the corrosion control treatment used.
       (ii) one sample shall be collected at each entry point: Except as provided in subdivision
            (b)(2)(iii) of this section, at least one sample no less frequently than every two weeks
            (biweekly) for pH; alkalinity (and a reading of the dosage rate of the chemical used to
            adjust alkalinity, when alkalinity is adjusted); calcium; orthophosphate or silica, as
            appropriate to the corrosion control treatment used; and a reading of the dosage rate
            of the corrosion control treatment chemical used.
       (iii)A ground water system may limit entry point sampling described in subdivision
            (b)(2)(ii) of this section to those entry points that are representative of water quality
            and treatment conditions throughout the system. If water from untreated ground water
            sources mixes with water from treated ground water sources, the system shall monitor
            for water quality parameters both at representative entry points receiving treatment
            and representative entry points receiving no treatment. Prior to the start of any
            monitoring under this paragraph, the system shall provide to the State written
            information identifying the selected entry points and documentation, including
            information on seasonal variability, sufficient to demonstrate that the sites are
            representative of water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system.
       Monitoring after State specifies water quality parameter values for optimal corrosion
       control. After the State specifies the values for applicable water quality control
       parameters reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment, all systems serving more than
       50,000 persons and any system serving 50,000 or fewer persons that has optimal
       corrosion control treatment installed shall measure the applicable water quality


                                              Page 43
       parameters during each six-month monitoring period specified in section 5-1.42(b)(3), in
       accordance with subdivisions (b)(2)(i)-(iii) of this section, and determine compliance
       with the requirements of section 5-1.41(g) during each six-month monitoring period
       specified in section 5-1.42(b)(3).

(c) Reduced monitoring.

       Reducing the number of sampling sites. Any water system that maintains the range of
       State specified values for the water quality parameters reflecting optimal corrosion
       control treatment during each of two consecutive six-month monitoring periods under
       subdivision (b)(3) of this section shall continue monitoring at the entry point(s) to the
       distribution system as specified in subdivision (b)(2)(ii)-(iii) of this section. Such system
       may collect two distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters from
       the reduced number of sites in accordance with subdivision (a)(2)(i) of this section during
       each six-month monitoring period.
       Reducing sampling frequency.
       (i) Any water system that maintains the range of State-specified values for the water
            quality parameters reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment during three
            consecutive years of monitoring in accordance with subdivision (c)(1) of this section
            may reduce the frequency with which it collects the number of distribution system
            samples for applicable water quality parameters specified in subdivision (c)(1) of this
            section from every six months to annually. This sampling shall begin during the
            calendar year immediately following the end of the monitoring period in which the
            third consecutive year of six-month monitoring occurs. Any water system that
            maintains the range of State-specified values for the water quality parameters
            reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment during three consecutive years of
            annual monitoring under this paragraph may reduce the frequency with which it
            collects the number of distribution system samples for applicable water quality
            parameters specified in subdivision (c)(1) of this section from annually to every three
            years.
       (ii) A water system may reduce the frequency with which it collects the number of
            distribution system samples for applicable water quality parameters specified in
            subdivision (c)(1) of this section to every three years if it demonstrates during two
            consecutive monitoring periods that its tap water lead level at the 90th percentile is
            less than or equal to the PQL for lead specified in section 5-1.40(b)(1), that its tap
            water copper level at the 90th percentile is less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L for copper,
            and that it also has maintained the range of values for the water quality parameters
            reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment specified by the State under section 5-
            1.41(f).
       (iii)Monitoring conducted every three years shall be done no later than every third
            calendar year.
       A water system that conducts reduced sampling frequency shall collect these samples
       evenly throughout monitoring period in which samples are taken so as to reflect seasonal
       variability.




                                              Page 44
       Any water system subject to the reduced monitoring frequency that fails to operate at or
       above the minimum value or within the range of values for the water quality parameters
       specified by the State under section 5-1.41(f) for more than nine days in any six-month
       period shall resume distribution system tap water sampling in accordance with the
       number and frequency requirements in subdivision (b)(3) of this section. The water
       system may resume annual monitoring for water quality parameters at the tap at the
       reduced number of sites specified in subdivision (a)(2)(i) of this section after it has
       completed two subsequent consecutive six-month rounds of monitoring that meet the
       criteria of that subdivision and/or may resume triennial monitoring for water quality
       parameters at taps in the distribution system at the reduced number of sites after it
       demonstrates through subsequent rounds of monitoring that it meets the criteria of either
       subdivision (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(d) Additional monitoring by systems. The results of any monitoring conducted in addition to the
    minimum requirements of this section shall be considered by the system and the State in
    making any compliance determinations (i.e., determining concentrations of water quality
    parameters).


5-1.44 Monitoring Requirements for Lead and Copper in Source Water. (Effective Date:
January 17, 2018)

A water system that exceeds the lead or copper action level based on first draw tap water
samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.42 shall collect lead and copper source water
samples in accordance with the following requirements:

(a) Sample Requirements.
       Water systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the
       distribution system which is representative of each source after treatment. The system
       shall collect each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another
       sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant. If a system draws
       water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the
       system shall sample at entry point(s) to be representative of normal operating conditions,
       when water is representative of all sources being used
       The State may reduce the total number of samples which shall be analyzed by allowing
       the use of compositing. Compositing of samples shall be done by certified laboratory
       personnel. Composite samples from a maximum of five samples are allowed, provided
       that the method detection limit (MDL) for lead of 0.001 mg/L is achieved. If the lead
       concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to 0.001 mg/L, or the
       copper concentration is greater than or equal to 0.160 mg/L, then either:
       (i) A follow-up sample shall be taken and analyzed within 14 days at each sampling
            point included in the composite; or
       (ii) If duplicates of or sufficient quantities from the original samples from each sampling
            point used in the composite are available, the system may use these instead of
            resampling.



                                             Page 45
       Where the results of sampling indicate an exceedance of State-specified maximum
       permissible source water levels established under section 5-1.45(a)(4), the State may
       require that one follow-up sample be collected as soon as possible after the initial sample
       was taken (but not to exceed two weeks) at the same sampling point. If a State-required
       follow-up sample is taken for lead or copper, then the results of the initial and follow-up
       samples shall be averaged to determine compliance with the State-specified maximum
       permissible levels. Any sample value below the detection limit shall be considered to be
       zero. Any value above the detection limit but below the practical quantitation limit (PQL)
       shall either be considered as the measured value or be considered one-half the PQL.

(b) Standard Monitoring.
   (1) Monitoring frequency after system exceeds tap water action level. Any system which
       exceeds the lead or copper action level shall collect one source water sample from each
       entry point to the distribution system no later than six months after the end of the
       monitoring period during which the lead or copper action level was exceeded. For
       monitoring periods that are annual or less frequent, the end of the monitoring period is
       September 30 of the calendar year in which the sampling occurs, or if the State has
       established an alternate monitoring period, the last day of that period.
       Monitoring frequency after installation of source water treatment. Any system which
       installs source water treatment pursuant to section 5-1.45 shall collect an additional
       source water sample from each entry point to the distribution system during the two
       consecutive six-month monitoring periods immediately following the installation of
       treatment with the first monitoring period to begin either January 1 or July 1, whichever
       comes first.
       Monitoring frequency after State specifies maximum permissible source water levels or
       determines that source water treatment is not needed.
       (i) A system shall monitor at the frequency specified below in cases where the State
            specifies maximum permissible source water levels or determines that the system is
            not required to install source water treatment under section 5-1.45.
            (a) A water system using only ground water shall collect samples once every tree
                years with the first three year monitoring period to begin January 1 of the year in
                which the State determination is made under subdivision (b)(3)(i) of this section.
                Such systems shall collect samples once during each subsequent compliance
                period. Triennial samples shall be collected in the third calendar year.
            (b) A water system using surface water (or a combination of surface and ground
                water) shall collect samples once during each calendar year with the first annual
                monitoring period to begin January 1 of the year in which the applicable State
                determination is made under subdivision (b)(3)(i) of this section.
       (ii) A system is not required to conduct source water sampling for lead and/or copper if
            the system meets the action level for the specific contaminant in tap water samples
            during the entire source water sampling period applicable to the system under
            subdivision (b)(3)(i)(a) or (b) of this section.




                                              Page 46
(c) Reduced monitoring.
       A water system using only ground water may reduce the monitoring frequency for lead
       and copper in source water to once every nine-years provided that the samples are
       collected no later than every ninth calendar year and the system meets one of the
       following criteria:
       (i) The system demonstrates that finished drinking water entering the distribution system
            has been maintained below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations
            specified by the State under section 5-1.45(a) during at least three consecutive years
            in which sampling was conducted under subdivision (b)(3)(i) of this section; or
       (ii) The State has determined that source water treatment is not needed and the system
            demonstrates that the concentration of lead in source water was less than or equal to
            0.005 mg/L and the concentration of copper in source water was less than or equal to
            0.65 mg/L during at least three consecutive applicable monitoring periods in which
            sampling was conducted under subdivision (b)(3)(i) of this section.
       A water system using surface water (or a combination of surface water and ground water)
       may reduce the monitoring frequency for lead and copper in source water to once during
       each nine-year compliance cycle provided that the samples are collected no later than
       every ninth calendar year and if the system meets one of the following criteria:
       (i) The system demonstrates that finished drinking water entering the distribution system
            has been maintained below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations
            specified by the State for at least three consecutive years; or
       (ii) The State has determined that source water treatment is not needed and the system
            demonstrates that, during at least three consecutive years, the concentration of lead in
            source water was less than or equal to 0.005 mg/L and the concentration of copper in
            source water was less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L.
       A water system that uses a new source of water is not eligible for reduced monitoring for
       lead and/or copper until concentrations in samples collected from the new source during
       three consecutive monitoring periods in accordance with subdivision (b)(2) or (3) of this
       section are below the maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations specified by
       the State.


5-1.45 Source Water Treatment Requirements. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

A water system that exceeds the lead or copper action level based on first draw tap water
samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.42 shall complete the applicable source water
monitoring and treatment requirements and operate appropriate treatment to maintain lead and
copper below levels specified by the State in accordance with the following requirements.

(a) Source water treatment requirements.
       A water system exceeding the lead or copper action level shall complete required lead
       and copper source water monitoring in accordance with section 5-1.44(b)(1) and make an
       appropriate treatment recommendation to the State no later than 180 days after the end of
       the monitoring period during which the system exceeds the lead or copper action level. A


                                              Page 47
       system may recommend that no treatment be installed based upon a demonstration that
       source water treatment is not necessary to minimize lead and copper levels at users' taps.
       Based on an evaluation of the results of all required source water sampling, the State shall
       make a determination if source water treatment is necessary and may require:
       (i) source water treatment as recommended by the system; or
       (ii) alternative source water treatment that would minimize lead and copper levels at
            user’s taps. Completion of proper installation and operation of the State specified
            source water treatment shall occur within 24 months of State determination and
            notification of the specified treatment to the water system.
       The water system shall complete standard monitoring for tap water in accordance with
       section 5-1.42(b) and source water in accordance with subdivision (b)(2) of this section
       following installation of source water treatment.
       Based on a review of the source water samples taken by the water system both before and
       after the system installs source water treatment, the State shall:
       (i) determine whether the system has properly installed and operated the source water
            treatment designated by the State; and
       (ii) specify maximum permissible source water concentrations for water entering the
            distribution system. Such levels shall reflect the contaminant removal capability of
            the treatment when properly operated and maintained.

(b) Operation and maintenance requirements.
       Each water system shall operate in a manner that minimizes lead and copper levels at
       user’s taps by maintaining lead and copper levels below State-specified maximum
       permissible concentrations at each of the required source water sampling locations in
       accordance with section 5-1.44. The system is out of compliance with this paragraph if
       the level of lead or copper at any sampling point is greater than the State-specified
       maximum permissible concentration.
       The State may modify its determination of the source water treatment under subdivision
       (a)(2) of this section, or maximum permissible lead and copper concentrations for
       finished water entering the distribution system under subdivision (a)(4) of this section
       where it concludes that such change is necessary to ensure that the system continues to
       minimize lead and copper concentrations in source water.


5-1.46 Lead Service Line Replacement. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Water systems that fail to meet the lead action level in tap samples collected after installing
    corrosion control treatment and/or source water treatment (whichever occurs later) shall
    replace lead service lines in accordance with the requirements of this section. Water systems
    that fail to install optimal corrosion control treatment in accordance with section 5-1.41(c) or
    source water treatment in accordance with section 5-1.45(a)(2) by the date(s) specified by the
    State may be required to begin replacement of lead service lines.



                                              Page 48
(b) Determining number of lead service lines for replacement.
       A water system shall replace annually at least 7 percent of the initial number of lead
       service lines in its distribution system. The initial number of lead service lines is the
       number of lead lines in place at the time the replacement program begins. The system
       shall identify the initial number of lead service lines in its distribution system, including
       an identification of the portion(s) owned by the system, based on materials evaluation,
       including the evaluation required under section 5-1.42(a) and relevant legal authorities
       (e.g. contracts, local ordinances) regarding the portion owned by the system. The first
       year of lead service line replacement shall begin on the first day following the end of the
       monitoring period in which the action level was exceeded in tap sampling referenced in
       subdivision (a) of this section. If monitoring is required annually or less frequently, the
       end of the monitoring period is September 30 of the calendar year in which the sampling
       occurs. If an alternate monitoring period applies, then the end of the monitoring period
       will be the last day of that period.;
       A water system is not required to replace an individual lead service line if the results of
       all samples representative of water in the lead service line, collected in accordance with
       section 5-1.42(a)(2)(iii) of this Subpart, are less than or equal to 0.015 mg/L.
       The total number of lines replaced, either entirely or partially per subdivision (c) of this
       section, shall equal at least 7 percent of the initial number of lead lines identified under
       subdivision (b)(1) of this section or the percentage specified by the State as per
       subdivision (d) of this section.
       Any water system resuming a lead service line replacement program after the cessation of
       its lead service line replacement program as allowed by subdivision (f) of this section
       shall update its inventory of lead service lines to include those sites that were previously
       determined not to require replacement through the sampling provision under subdivision
       (c) of this section. The system will then divide the updated number of remaining lead
       service lines by the number of remaining years in the program to determine the number
       of lines that shall be replaced per year (7-percent lead service line replacement is based
       on a 15-year replacement program). For those systems that have completed a 15-year lead
       service line replacement program, the State will determine a schedule for replacing or re-
       testing lines that were previously tested under the replacement program if the system re-
       exceeds the action level.

(c) A water system shall replace the portion of the lead service line that it owns. In cases where
    the system does not own the entire lead service line, the system shall notify the owner of the
    line, or the owner’s authorized agent, that the system will replace the portion of the service
    line that it owns and shall offer to replace the owner’s portion of the line. A system is not
    required to bear the cost of replacing the privately-owned portion of the line, where the
    owner chooses not to pay the cost of replacing the privately-owned portion of the line, or
    where replacing the privately- owned portion would be precluded by State, local or common
    law. A water system that does not replace the entire length of the service line also shall
    complete the following tasks:
       At least 45 days prior to commencing with partial replacement of a lead service line, the
       water system shall provide notice to the resident(s) of all buildings served by the line


                                              Page 49
       explaining that they may experience a temporary increase of lead levels in their drinking
       water, along with guidance on measures consumers can take to minimize their exposure
       to lead. The State may allow the water system to provide notice of less than 45 days prior
       to commencing partial lead service line replacement, if such replacement is done in
       conjunction with emergency repairs. In addition, the water system shall inform the
       resident(s) served by the line that the system will, at the system’s expense, collect a
       sample from each partially-replaced lead service line that is representative of the water in
       the service line for analysis of lead content, as prescribed in section 5-1.42(a)(2)(iii) of
       this Subpart, within 72 hours after the completion of the partial replacement of the
       service line. The system shall collect the sample and report the results of the analysis to
       the owner and the resident(s) served by the line within three business days of receiving
       the results. Mailed notices post-marked within three business days of receiving the results
       shall be considered “on time.”
       The water system shall provide the information required by subdivision (c)(1) of this
       section to the residents of individual dwellings by mail or by other methods approved by
       the State. In instances where multi-family dwellings are served by the service line, the
       water system shall have the option to post the information at a conspicuous location..

(d) The State shall require a system to replace lead service lines on a shorter schedule than that
    required by this section, taking into account the number of lead service lines in the system,
    where a shorter replacement schedule is feasible. The State shall make this determination in
    writing and notify the system of its finding within 6 months after the system is triggered into
    lead service line replacement based on monitoring results referenced in subdivision (a) of this
    section.

(e) Any water system may cease replacing lead service lines whenever first draw tap water
    samples meet the lead action level during each of two consecutive six-month monitoring
    periods. If subsequent rounds of first draw tap water sampling exceed the lead action level
    the water system shall recommence replacing lead service lines in accordance with
    subdivision (b) of this section.

(f) To demonstrate compliance with subdivisions (a) through (d) of this section, a system shall
    report to the State the information specified and no later than the schedule described in 40
    CFR 141.90(e).


5-1.47 Notification and Public Education Requirements. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Notification of results to consumers. All water systems shall provide notice of the individual
    tap results from lead tap water monitoring carried out under the requirements of section 5-
    1.42 to the persons served by the water system at the specific sampling site from which the
    sample was taken (i.e., the occupants of the residence where the tap was tested). Water
    systems that exceed the lead action level shall sample the tap water of any customer who
    requests it in accordance with subdivision (i) of this section:
       Notice shall be provided as soon as practical, but no later than 30 days after the system
       learns of the tap monitoring results.


                                              Page 50
       Notice shall be provided either by mail or by another method approved by the State.
       Notice shall include the lead levels for the tap that was tested, an explanation of the
       health effects of lead, a list of steps consumers can take to reduce exposure to lead in
       drinking water, and contact information for the water utility. The notice shall also provide
       the maximum contaminant level goal and the action level for lead and the definitions for
       these two terms from section 5-1.72(f)]

(b) Public education material content and delivery. A water system that exceeds the lead action
    level based on tap water samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.42 shall deliver
    public education materials in accordance with paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subdivision.
       Content of public education materials.
          (i) Community water systems and nontransient noncommunity water systems. Water
          systems shall include the following elements in printed materials (e.g., brochures and
          pamphlets) in the same order as listed below. In addition, language in subdivision
          (b)(1)(i)(a) through (b) and (b)(1)(i)(f) of this section shall be included in the
          materials, exactly as written, except for the text in brackets in these clauses for which
          the water system shall include system-specific information. Any additional
          information presented by a water system shall be consistent with the information
          below and be in plain language that can be understood by the general public. Water
          systems shall submit all written public education materials to the State for approval
          prior to delivery.

           (a) IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT LEAD IN YOUR DRINKING
               WATER [Insert Name of Water System] found elevated levels of lead in drinking
               water in some homes/buildings. Lead can cause serious health problems,
               especially for pregnant women and young children. Please read this information
               closely to see what you can do to reduce lead in your drinking water.
           (b) Health effects of lead. Lead can cause serious health problems if too much enters
               your body from drinking water or other sources. It can cause damage to the brain
               and kidneys, and can interfere with the production of red blood cells that carry
               oxygen to all parts of your body. The greatest risk of lead exposure is to infants,
               young children, and pregnant women. Scientists have linked the effects of lead on
               the brain with lowered IQ in children. Adults with kidney problems and high
               blood pressure can be affected by low levels of lead more than healthy adults.
               Lead is stored in the bones, and it can be released later in life. During pregnancy,
               the child receives lead from the mother’s bones, which may affect brain
               development.
           (c) Provide information on sources of lead.
               (1) Explain what lead is.
               (2) Explain possible sources of lead in drinking water and how lead enters
                   drinking water. Include information on home/building plumbing materials and
                   service lines that may contain lead.
               (3) Discuss other important sources of lead exposure in addition to drinking water
                   (e.g., lead-based paint).
           (d) Discuss the steps consumers can take to reduce their exposure to lead in drinking
               water.


                                              Page 51
       (1) Encourage running the water to flush out lead.
       (2) Explain concerns with using hot water from the tap and specifically caution
           against the use of hot water for preparing baby formula.
       (3) Explain that boiling water does not reduce lead levels.
       (4) Discuss other options consumers can take to reduce exposure to lead in
           drinking water, such as alternative sources or treatment of water.
       (5) Suggest that parents have their child’s blood tested for lead.
     (e) Explain why there are elevated levels of lead in the system’s drinking water (if
         known) and what the water system is doing to reduce the lead levels in
         homes/buildings in this area.
     (f) For more information call us at [Insert Your Number] [(If Applicable), or visit our
         website at [Insert Your Website Here]. For more information on reducing lead
         exposure around your home/building and the health effects of lead, visit EPA’s
         website at http://www.epa.gov/lead or contact your health care provider.
(ii) Community water systems. In addition to including the elements specified in
     subdivision (b)(1) of this section, community water systems shall:
     (a) Tell consumers how to get their water tested.
     (b) Discuss lead in plumbing components, the difference between low lead and lead
         free, the requirement to use lead-free materials, and the standards that materials
         shall meet in order to be considered lead free.
(iii) Each water system required to deliver public education materials through additional
     means specified in subdivision (b)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section shall include
     additional content as determined in consultation with the State.
Delivery of public education materials.
(i) For public water systems serving a large proportion of non-English speaking
    consumers, as determined by the State, the public education materials shall contain
    information in the appropriate language(s) regarding the importance of the notice or
    contain a telephone number or address where persons served may contact the water
    system to obtain a translated copy of the public education materials or to request
    assistance in the appropriate language.
(ii) A community water system that exceeds the lead action level and that is not already
     conducting public education tasks under this section, shall conduct the following
     public education tasks within 60 days after the end of the monitoring period in which
     the exceedance occurred. For systems that are required to conduct monitoring
     annually or less frequently, the end of the monitoring period is September 30 of the
     calendar year in which the sampling occurs or, if the State has established an alternate
     monitoring period, the last day of that period:
     (a) Deliver printed materials meeting the content requirements of subdivision (a) of
         this section to all bill paying customers.
     (b) Contact consumers who are most at risk by delivering education materials that
         meet the content requirements of subdivision (a) of this section as follows:
         (1) Contact the State for information regarding community based organizations
             serving target populations and deliver education materials to all appropriate
             organizations along with an informational notice that encourages distribution




                                       Page 52
          to all the organization’s potentially affected customers or community water
          system’s users as determined in consultation with the State.
      (2) Contact customers who are most at risk by delivering materials to the
          following organizations that are located within the water system’s service
          area, along with an informational notice that encourages distribution to all the
          organization’s potentially affected customers or community water system’s
          users:
          (i) Public and private schools or school boards.
          (ii) Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and Head Start programs.
          (iii)Public and private hospitals and medical clinics.
          (iv) Pediatricians.
          (v) Family planning clinics.
          (vi) Local welfare agencies.
      (3) Make a good faith effort to locate the following organizations within the
          service area and deliver materials, along with an informational notice that
          encourages distribution to all potentially affected customers or users. The
          good faith effort to contact at-risk customers may include requesting a specific
          contact list of these organizations from the State:
          (i) Licensed childcare centers.
          (ii) Public and private preschools.
          (iii) Obstetricians-Gynecologists and Midwives.
(c)   No less often than quarterly, provide information on or in each water bill as long
      as the system exceeds the action level for lead. The message on the water bill
      shall include the following statement exactly as written except for the text in
      brackets for which the water system shall include system-specific information:
      [Insert Name of Water System] found high levels of lead in drinking water in
      some homes. Lead can cause serious health problems. For more information
      please call [Insert Name of Water System] [or visit (Insert Your website Here)].
      The message or delivery mechanism can be modified in consultation with the
      State; specifically, the State may allow a separate mailing of public education
      materials to customers if the water system cannot place the information on water
      bills.
(d)   Post material meeting the content requirements of subdivision (a) of this section
      on the water system’s website if the system serves a population greater than
      100,000 or if the water system maintains a publicly accessible website.
(e)   Submit a press release to newspaper, television and radio stations.
(f)   In addition to the other requirements of this section, systems shall implement at
      least three activities from one or more categories listed below. The educational
      content and selection of these activities must be determined in consultation with
      the State.
      (1) Public service announcements.
      (2) Paid advertisements.
      (3) Public area informational displays.
      (4) E-mails to customers.
      (5) Public meetings.
      (6) Household deliveries.
      (7) Targeted individual customer contact.
      (8) Direct material distribution to all multi-family homes and institutions.


                                     Page 53
                (9) Other methods approved by the State.

(c) As long as a community water system exceeds the action level, it shall repeat the activities
    pursuant to subdivision (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
        A community water system shall repeat the tasks contained in subdivisions (a), (b) and (f)
        of this section every 12 months.
        A community water system shall repeat tasks contained in subdivision (c) of this section
        with each billing cycle.
        A community water system serving a population greater than 100,000 shall post and
        retain material on a publicly accessible website pursuant to subdivision (d) of this section.
        The community water system shall repeat the tasks in subdivision (b)(2)(ii)(a),(b) and (d)
        of this section twice every 12 months on a schedule agreed upon with the State. The State
        may allow activities in subdivision (b)(2)(ii)(b) of this section to extend beyond the 60-
        day requirement if needed for implementation purposes on a case-by-case basis; however,
        this extension must be approved in writing by the State in advance of the 60-day
        deadline.

(d) A nontransient noncommunity water system that exceeds the lead action level and that is not
    already conducting public education tasks under this section shall conduct the following
    public education tasks within 60 days after the end of the monitoring period in which the
    exceedance occurred. For systems that are required to conduct monitoring annually or less
    frequently, the end of the monitoring period is September 30 of the calendar year in which
    the sampling occurs or, if the State has established an alternate monitoring period, the last
    day of that period:
        post informational posters on lead in drinking water in a public place or common area in
        each of the buildings served by the system; and
        distribute informational pamphlets and/or brochures on lead in drinking water to each
        person served by the nontransient noncommunity water system. The State may allow the
        system to utilize electronic transmission in lieu of or combined with printed materials as
        long as it achieves at least the same coverage.

(e) A nontransient noncommunity water system shall repeat the tasks contained in subdivision
    (d) of this section at least once during each calendar year in which the system exceeds the
    lead action level. The State may allow activities in this section to extend beyond the 60-day
    requirement if needed for implementation purposes on a case-by-case basis; however, this
    extension must be approved in writing by the State in advance of the 60-day deadline.

(f) A water system may discontinue delivery of public education materials if the system has met
    the lead action level during the most recent six-month monitoring period. Such a system shall
    recommence public education in accordance with this section if it exceeds the lead action
    level during any subsequent monitoring period.

(g) A community water system may use only the text specified in subdivisions (b)(1)(i) and
    (b)(1)(ii) of this section in lieu of the text in subdivisions (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this


                                                 Page 54
   section, and to perform the tasks listed in subdivisions (d) and (e) of this section in lieu of the
   tasks in subdivisions (b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3) of this section if:
       the system is a facility, such as a prison or a hospital, where the population served is not
       capable of or is prevented from making improvements to plumbing or installing point of
       use treatment devices;
       the system provides water as part of the cost of services provided and does not separately
       charge for water consumption; and
       the State has not directed the water system to conduct broader distribution of education
       material as needed if in its judgment education materials are not reaching the system’s
       consumers.
(h) A community water system serving 3,300 or fewer people may limit certain aspects of their
    public education programs as follows:

       With respect to the requirements of subdivision (b)(2)(ii)(f) of this section, a system
       serving 3,300 or fewer shall implement at least one of the activities listed in that clause.
       With respect to the requirements of subdivision (b)(2)(ii)(b) of this section, a system
       serving 3,300 or fewer people may limit the distribution of the public education materials
       required under that clause to facilities and organizations served by the system that are
       most likely to be visited regularly by pregnant women and children.
       With respect to the requirements of subdivision (b)(2)(ii)(e) of this section, the State may
       waive this requirement for systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons as long as system
       distributes notices to every household served by the system.

(i) Consumer requests for lead sampling. A water system that fails to meet the lead action level
    on the basis of tap samples collected in accordance with section 5-1.42 shall provide
    assistance in determining lead levels at the tap of any customer who requests it. Systems may
    collect and analyze the samples, but are not obligated to incur expenses. Systems are also not
    obligated to collect and analyze samples itself, but shall provide information about
    laboratories providing this service.


5-1.48 Reporting and Record Keeping Requirements. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Reporting requirements for tap water monitoring for lead and copper and for water quality
    parameter monitoring.
       Unless the State has specified a more frequent reporting requirement, a water system
       shall report the following information for all tap water samples specified in section 5-1.42
       and for all water quality parameter samples specified in section 5-1.43 to the State within
       the first ten days following the end of each applicable monitoring period; for monitoring
       periods with a duration of less than six months, the end of the monitoring period is the
       last date samples can be collected during that period as specified in sections 5-1.42 and 5-
       1.43:




                                               Page 55
(i) results of all first draw lead and copper tap samples collected in accordance with
     section 5-1.42, including site locations and the criteria used in selecting the site in
     accordance with section 5-1.42(a)(1);
(ii) documentation for each tap water lead or copper sample for which the water system
     requests invalidation in accordance with section 5-1.42(e);
(iii) the 90th percentile lead and copper concentrations measured from among all lead
     and copper tap water samples collected during each monitoring period and calculated
     in accordance with section 5-1.41(c), unless the State calculates the system’s 90th
     percentile under subdivision (h) of this section;
(iv) with the exception of initial tap sampling conducted pursuant to section 5-1.42(b)(1)-
     (3), the system shall identify any site which was not sampled during previous
     monitoring periods, and include an explanation of changes in sampling sites if any;
     and
(v) the results of all tap samples for applicable water quality parameters collected in
     accordance with section 5-1.43(b)-(d).
(vi) The results of all samples collected at the entry point(s) to the distribution system for
     applicable water quality parameters under section 5-1.43(b)-(d).
For a nontransient noncommunity water system, or a community water system meeting
the criteria of section 5-1.47(b)(2)(g) that does not have enough taps that can provide
first-draw samples, the system shall provide written documentation to the State
identifying standing times and locations for enough first-draw samples to make up its
sampling pool by the start of the first applicable monitoring period in accordance with
section 5-1.42(a)(3) or, identify in writing, each site that did not meet the six-hour
minimum standing time and the length of time for that particular substitute sample
collected, and include this information with the lead and copper tap sample results that
are required to be submitted pursuant to subdivision (a)(1)(i) of this section.
At a time specified by the State, or if no specific time is designated by the State, then as
early as possible prior to the addition of a new source or any long-term change in water
treatment, a water system deemed to have optimized corrosion control, a water system
subject to reduced monitoring pursuant, or a water system subject to a monitoring waiver
pursuant, shall submit written documentation to the State describing the change or
addition as required under section 5-1.22(a). A water system shall obtain approval from
the State before implementing the addition of a new source or long-term change in water
treatment. Examples of long-term treatment changes include the addition of a new
treatment process or modification of an existing treatment process. Examples of
modifications include switching secondary disinfectants, switching coagulants (e.g., alum
to ferric chloride), and switching corrosion inhibitor products (e.g., orthophosphate to
blended phosphate). Long-term changes can include dose changes to existing chemicals if
the system is planning long-term changes to its finished water pH or residual inhibitor
concentration. Long-term treatment changes would not include chemical dose
fluctuations associated with daily raw water quality changes.
Any system serving 3,300 or fewer persons applying for a monitoring waiver pursuant to
section 5-1.42(f), shall provide the following information to the State in writing by the
specified deadline:




                                       Page 56
       (i) By the start of the first applicable monitoring period, any system serving 3,300 or
            fewer persons applying for a monitoring waiver shall provide the documentation
            required to demonstrate that it meets the requirements of section 5-1.42(f).
       (ii) No later than nine years after the monitoring previously conducted pursuant to section
            5-1.42(b) or (c), each system serving 3,300 or fewer persons desiring to maintain its
            monitoring waiver shall provide the information required by section 5-1.42(f)(1)-(3).
       (iii)No later than 60 days after it becomes aware that it is no longer free of lead-
            containing and/or copper containing material, as appropriate, each system serving
            3,300 or fewer persons with a monitoring waiver shall provide written notification to
            the State, stating the circumstances resulting in the lead-containing and/or copper-
            containing materials being introduced into the system and what corrective action, if
            any, the system plans to remove these materials.
       Each ground water system that limits water quality parameter monitoring to a subset of
       entry points under section 5-1.43(b)(2)(iii) shall provide by the commencement of such
       monitoring, written correspondence to the State that identifies the selected entry points
       and includes information sufficient to demonstrate that the sites are representative of
       water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system.

(b) Source water monitoring reporting requirements.
       A water system shall report the sampling results for all source water samples collected in
       accordance with section 5-1.44 within the first 10 days following the end of each source
       water monitoring period.
       With the exception of the first round of source water sampling conducted, the system
       shall specify any site which was not sampled during previous monitoring periods, and
       include an explanation of why the sampling point has changed.

(c) Corrosion control treatment reporting requirements. By the applicable dates under section 5-
    1.41(c) or a date specified by the State, systems shall report the following:
       For systems demonstrating that they have already optimized corrosion control,
       information required in section 5-1.41(b).
       For systems required to optimize corrosion control, their recommendation regarding
       optimal corrosion control treatment in accordance with section 5-1.41(c)(3).
       For systems required to evaluate the effectiveness of corrosion control treatments, the
       information required for corrosion control studies in accordance with section 5-
       1.41(c)(3).
       For systems required to install optimal corrosion control designated by the State, a letter
       certifying that the system has completed installing that treatment in accordance with
       section 5-1.41(e).

(d) Source water treatment reporting requirements. In accordance with section 5-1.45, systems
    shall report the following:




                                              Page 57
       For systems required to make a source water treatment recommendation in accordance
       with section 5-1.45(a)(1), the information required by that section.
       For systems required to install source water treatment in accordance with section
       5-1.45(a)(2), a letter certifying that the system has completed installing the treatment
       designated by the State within 24 months after the State designated the treatment.

(e) Lead service line replacement reporting requirements. Water systems subject to the
    requirements of section 5-1.46 shall report the following to demonstrate compliance with that
    section:
       No later than 12 months after the end of a monitoring period in which a system exceeds
       the lead action level in sampling referred to in section 5-1.46(a), the system shall submit
       written documentation to the State of the material evaluation conducted as required in
       section 5-1.42(a), identify the initial number of lead service lines in its distribution
       system at the time the system exceeds the lead action level, and provide the system’s
       schedule for annually replacing at least 7 percent of the initial number of lead service
       lines in its distribution system.
       No later than 12 months after the end of a monitoring period in which a system exceeds
       the lead action level in sampling referred to in section 5-1.46(a), and every 12 months
       thereafter, the system shall demonstrate to the State in writing that the system has either:
       (i) replaced in the previous 12 months at least 7 percent of the initial lead service lines in
            its distribution system; or
       (ii) conducted sampling which demonstrates that the lead concentration in all service line
            samples from an individual line(s), meeting the requirements of section 5-1.46(b)(2),
            is less than or equal to 0.015 mg/L. In such cases, the total number of lines replaced
            and/or which meet the criteria in section 5-1.46(b)(2) shall equal at least 7 percent of
            the initial number of lead lines identified under subdivision (e)(1) of this section or
            the percentage specified by the State under section 5-1.46(d).
       The annual letter submitted to the State under subdivision (e)(2) of this section shall
       contain the following information:
       (i) the number of lead service lines replaced during the previous year of the system’s
            replacement schedule;
       (ii) the number and location of each lead service line replaced during the previous year of
            the system’s replacement schedule; and
       (iii)if measured, the lead concentration in the water and the location of each lead service
            line sampled, the sampling method, and the date of sampling.
       Any system which collects lead service line samples following partial lead service line
       replacement in accordance with section 5-1.46(c)(1) shall report the results to the State
       within the first ten days of the month following the month in which the system receives
       the laboratory results, or as specified by the State. Systems shall also report any
       additional information as specified by the State, and in a time and manner prescribed by
       the State, to verify that all partial lead service line replacement activities have taken
       place.




                                              Page 58
(f) Public education reporting requirements. Water systems shall report the following to
    demonstrate compliance with requirements of section 5-1.47:
       Each system shall mail a sample copy of the consumer notification of tap results to the
       State along with a certification that the notification has been provided no later than 3
       months following the end of the monitoring period.
       Any water system that is subject to the public education requirements under section 5-
       1.47 shall, within ten days after the end of each period in which the system is required to
       perform public education, send written documentation to the State that contains:
       (i) a demonstration that the system has delivered the public education materials that meet
            the content requirements in section 5-1.47(b)(1) and the delivery requirements in
            section 5-1.47(b)(2); and
       (ii) a list of all newspapers, radio stations, television stations, and facilities and
            organizations to which the system delivered public education materials during the
            period in which the system was required to perform public education tasks.
       Unless required by the State, a system that previously has submitted the information
       required by subdivision (f)(2)(ii) of this section need not resubmit the information
       required, as long as there have been no changes in the distribution list and the system
       certifies that the public education materials were distributed to the same list submitted
       previously.

(g) Reporting of additional monitoring data. Any system which collects sampling data in addition
    to that required by this sections 5-1.40 through 5-1.48, including data collected in accordance
    with section 5-1.41(b)(6), and sections 5-1.42(d), and 5-1.43(d), shall report the results to the
    State within the first ten days following the end of the applicable monitoring period during
    which the samples were collected.

(h) Reporting the 90th percentile lead and copper concentration where the State calculates a
    system’s 90th percentile concentrations. A water system is not required to report the 90th
    percentile lead and copper concentration measured from among all lead and copper tap water
    samples collected during each monitoring period, as required by subdivision (a)(1)(iii) of this
    section if:
       The State has previously notified the water system that it will calculate the water
       system’s 90th percentile lead and copper concentrations, based on the lead and copper tap
       results submitted pursuant to subdivision (h)(2)(i) of this section, and has specified a date
       before the end of the applicable monitoring period by which the system shall provide the
       results of lead and copper tap water samples; and
       The system has provided the following information to the State by the date specified in
       subdivision (h)(1) of this section:
       (i) the results of all tap samples for lead and copper including the location of each site
           and the criteria under section 5-1.42(a)(1)(iii)-(iv) under which the site was selected
           for the system's sampling pool, pursuant to subdivision (a)(1)(i) of this section; and




                                               Page 59
       (ii) an identification of sampling sites utilized during the current monitoring period that
            were not sampled during previous monitoring periods, and an explanation why
            sampling sites have changed; and
       The State has provided the results of the 90th percentile lead and copper calculations, in
       writing, to the water system before the end of the monitoring period.

(i) Prior to the addition of a new source or any long-term change in water treatment, a water
     system deemed to have optimized corrosion control under section 5-1.41(b), a water system
     subject to reduced monitoring under section 5-1.42(c), or a water system subject to a
     monitoring waiver under section 5-1.42(f) shall submit written documentation to the State
     describing the proposed change or addition within a timeframe specified by the State, or if no
     specific time is designated by the State, then as early as possible.

(j) Recordkeeping requirements. Any system subject to the requirements of sections 5-1.40
    through 5-1.48 shall retain on its premises original records of all sampling data and analyses,
    reports, surveys, letters, evaluations, schedules, State approvals and determinations, and any
    other information required by section 5-1.41 through 5-1.48. Each water system shall retain
    the records required by this section for no fewer than 12 years.




                                              Page 60
Public Water Systems; Maximum Contaminant Levels;
Monitoring Requirements; Notifications Required
5-1.50 Applicability and responsibility. (Effective Date: November 9, 2011)

The provisions of this section and sections 5-1.51 through 5-1.52 of this Subpart shall apply to
all public water systems. The supplier of water of a public water system is responsible for
completion of the monitoring requirements set forth in such sections and for performing all
analyses in accordance with the analytical requirements set forth in Appendix 5-C of this
Subpart. At the discretion of the State, analyses performed by the State may be used for
monitoring purposes.


5-1.51 Maximum contaminant levels, maximum residual disinfectant levels and treatment
technique requirements (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) The maximum contaminant levels, maximum residual disinfectant levels and treatment
    technique requirements are listed in section 5-1.52 tables 1 through 7 of this Subpart. In the
    case where an MCL, MRDL, or treatment technique requirement is exceeded,
    notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in section 5-1.12 of this Subpart, the
    supplier of water will take the necessary steps to comply with this section, to ensure the
    protection of the public health, including the undertaking of remedial feasibility studies and
    the installation of a suitable treatment process. Compliance with the MCLs, MRDLs and
    treatment technique requirements shall be determined by the procedures contained in section
    5-1.52 tables 1 through 7 of this Subpart.

(b) The minimum monitoring requirements for each contaminant are listed in section 5-1.52
    tables 8A through 12 and 15A of this Subpart, except for public water systems with fewer
    than 15 service connections and which serve fewer than 25 persons, where monitoring will
    be at State discretion. For this section, State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when
    the State has reason to believe an MCL, MRDL, or treatment technique requirement has been
    violated, the potential exists for an MCL, MRDL, or treatment technique violation or a
    contaminant may present a risk to public health.

(c) Each system shall develop and implement a monitoring plan that includes all monitoring
    requirements specified in this Subpart. The system shall maintain the plan and make it
    available for inspection by the State and the general public. After review, the State may
    require changes in any plan elements. Failure to monitor in accordance with the monitoring
    plan is a monitoring violation. Systems may only use data collected in accordance with the
    monitoring plan to qualify for reduced monitoring. The monitoring plan shall include at least
    the following elements, as applicable:
       specific locations and schedules for collecting samples for all applicable parameters listed
       in section 5-1.42, section 5-1.43, Tables 8A-12, 15 and 15A of section 5-1.52, section 5-
       1.61, and section 5-1.81 of this Subpart;
       how the system will calculate compliance with MCLs, MRDLs, and treatment
       techniques;


                                              Page 61
       if the system is a consecutive system, or it is providing water to a consecutive system,
       and has been approved for modified monitoring under the provisions of section 5-1.76 of
       this Subpart, the sampling plan must reflect the entire distribution system for any analytes
       approved for modified monitoring;
       consecutive ground water systems must define and implement a protocol for notifying the
       system from which they receive water of any total coliform positive samples so the
       source can be tested for fecal contamination, unless the wholesale ground water system
       provides 4-log virus treatment at peak flow before or at the first customer as confirmed
       through process compliance monitoring.
       Disinfection Byproduct Monitoring.
       (i) The following requirements of this subdivision apply to community and nontransient
           noncommunity water systems that use or deliver water that has been treated with a
           primary or residual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light, provided they serve 15 or
           more service connections or serve 25 or more persons:
           (a) if a new community or nontransient noncommunity water system begins
               operation, or an existing community or nontransient noncommunity water system
               begins using a disinfectant other than ultraviolet light, the system shall consult
               with the State to identify compliance monitoring locations for disinfection
               byproducts to include in the system’s monitoring plan, consistent with the
               requirements in 40 CFR 141.601 and 141.602, and for new systems that need an
               Initial Distribution System Evaluation (IDSE), consistent with 40 CFR 141.605;
               and
           (b) if a community or nontransient noncommunity water system adds or removes
               compliance monitoring locations, the system shall identify additional locations by
               alternating selection of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5
               levels until the required number of compliance monitoring locations have been
               identified, as specified in section 5-1.52 Table 9A. Systems shall also provide the
               rationale for identifying the locations as having high levels of TTHM or HAA5.

       (ii) Systems shall revise monitoring plans to reflect changes in treatment, distribution
            system operations and layout (including new service areas), other factors that may
            affect TTHM or HAA5 formation or upon consultation with the State.
            (a) If a system changes monitoring locations, it shall replace existing compliance
                monitoring locations with the lowest LRAA with new locations that reflect the
                current distribution system locations with expected high TTHM or HAA5 levels.
            (b) The State may require modifications in the monitoring plan.
            (c) Surface water or GWUDI systems serving more than 3,300 people shall submit a
                copy of their modified monitoring plan to the State prior to the date they are
                required to comply with the revised monitoring plan.
       (iii) A system is in violation of the monitoring requirements for each quarter that a
            monitoring result would be used in calculating a LRAA if the system fails to monitor.

(d) The notification requirements for each contaminant are listed in section 5-1.52 Table 13 of
    this Subpart.




                                              Page 62
(e) The CT values for inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts by free chlorine at various pH and
    temperature levels are listed in section 5-1.52 Tables 14A through 14F of this Subpart. The
    CT values for inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts by chlorine dioxide and ozone at various
    temperature levels are listed in section 5-1.52 Table 14G of this Subpart. The CT values for
    inactivation of Giardia lamblia cysts by chloramines at various temperature levels are listed
    in section 5-1.52 Table 14H of this Subpart. The CT values for inactivation of
    Cryptosporidium by chlorine dioxide at various temperature levels are listed in section 5-1.52
    Table 14I. The CT values for inactivation of Cryptosporidium by ozone at various
    temperature levels are listed in section 5-1.52 Table 14J. The UV doses for Cryptosporidium,
    Giardia lamblia, and virus inactivation credit are listed in section 5-1.52 Table 14K.

(f) The alternative disinfection monitoring frequency requirements using grab samples instead of
    continuous chlorine concentration monitoring is listed in section 5-1.52 table 15 of this
    Subpart.

(g) Monitoring and reporting frequencies for specific contaminants may be established at State
    discretion whenever the State believes that a potential exists for an MCL or MRDL violation
    or a contaminant may present a risk to public health.

(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subdivision (a) of this section, the Commissioner
    may recommend values lower than the MCLs if sufficient valid information based on
    commonly accepted scientific standards and principles demonstrates an increased public
    health concern. Within one year from the date of such recommendation, the State shall hold a
    public hearing regarding the justification for the lower value, and whether a new MCL is
    warranted.

(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section 5-1.52 table 3 the Commissioner may in
    specific cases except specific organic chemicals from the MCLs for general organic
    chemicals if the supplier of water can demonstrate that sufficient valid scientific information
    exists to show that the organic chemical does not pose an unreasonable risk to human health,
    the organic chemical is present at a level and under circumstances not indicative of
    contamination, and the cost of compliance is unreasonable in light of the risk to human
    health.

(j) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section 5-1.52 table 3 of this Subpart, the
    Commissioner may, based on receipt and review of a justification submitted by the supplier
    of water, allow a higher MCL for a period of up to 60 days following application of a paint or
    lining to a potable water structure, if he determines that an unreasonable risk to human health
    does not exist.

(k) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section 5-1.52 table 3A of this Subpart, systems
    may increase residual disinfectant levels of chlorine or chloramines (but not chlorine dioxide)
    in the distribution system to a level and for a time necessary to protect public health, to
    address specific microbiological contamination problems caused by circumstances such as,
    but not limited to, distribution line breaks, storm run-off events, source water contamination
    events, or cross-connection events.



                                              Page 63
(l) A system that is installing granular activated carbon (GAC) or membrane technology to
    comply with the trihalomethane and haloacetic acid MCLs listed in section 5-1.52 table 3
    may apply to the State for an extension of up to 24 months past the compliance dates for
    those MCLs. Systems must comply with any interim measures and schedules of compliance
    set by the State.

(m) Each public water system must certify annually in writing to the State that when Acrylamide
   and Epichlorohydrin are used in drinking water systems, the combination (or product) of
   dose and monomer level does not exceed the levels specified as follows:

       Acrylamide = 0.05% dosed at 1 ppm (or equivalent)
       Epichlorohydrin = 0.01% dosed at 20 ppm (or equivalent)

       Certification can rely on manufacturers or third parties, as approved by the State.

(n) For microbiological analysis, a standard sample size of 100 milliliters shall be used.

(o) Disinfection Byproduct Monitoring. The requirements of this subdivision apply to
    community and nontransient noncommunity water systems that use a primary or residual
    disinfectant other than ultraviolet light, or deliver water that has been treated with a primary
    or residual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light in accordance with monitoring
    requirements in Table 9A of section 5-1.52.
       Systems required to conduct quarterly monitoring shall calculate compliance at the end of
       each quarter or earlier if the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four quarters of data
       would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent
       quarters in accordance with Table 3 of section 5-1.52.
       Systems required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly shall
       monitor in the calendar month identified in the monitoring plan developed under
       subdivision (c) of this section. Compliance calculations shall be made beginning with the
       first compliance sample taken after the compliance date.




                                               Page 64
5-1.52 Tables. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

Table 1. Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Maximum Contaminant Level Determination

Contaminants1,2             MCL (mg/l) 3                     Determination of MCL violations
Asbestos                    7.0 million fibers/liter (MFL)
                            (longer than 10 microns)         If the results of a monitoring sample analysis exceed the MCL, the supplier of water shall
Antimony                    0.006                            collect one more sample from the same sampling point within 2 weeks or as soon as practical.
Arsenic                     0.010
                                                             An MCL violation for all contaminants listed in this table, except for Arsenic, occurs when the
Barium                      2.00
                                                             average4 of the initial sample and any confirmation sample exceeds the MCL
Beryllium                   0.004
Cadmium                     0.005                            MCL violations for Arsenic will be determined as follows:
Chromium                    0.10
Cyanide(as free cyanide)    0.25,6                           Compliance with the Arsenic MCL shall be determined based on the analytical result(s)
                                                             obtained at each sampling point.
Mercury                     0.002
Selenium                    0.05                             For systems which are conducting monitoring at a frequency greater than annual, an Arsenic
Silver                      0.1                              MCL violation occurs when the running annual average11,12,13 at any sampling point is greater
Thallium                    0.002                            than the MCL. If any one sample would cause the annual average to exceed the MCL at any
Fluoride                    2.2                              sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.
Chloride                    250.0
                                                             Systems monitoring annually or less frequently whose sample result exceeds the Arsenic MCL11
Iron                        0.37                             must begin quarterly sampling14. The system will not be considered in violation of the MCL
Manganese                   0.37                             until it has completed one year of quarterly sampling and the running annual average 11,12,13 at
Sodium                      No designated limits8            that sampling point is greater than the Arsenic MCL. If any one sample would cause the annual
Sulfate                     250.0                            average to exceed the MCL at any sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the
Zinc                        5.0                              MCL immediately.
Color                       15 Units
Odor                        3 Units
                                                             Compliance is based on a running annual average of monthly samples, computed quarterly. If
Bromate9                    0.010                            the average of samples covering any consecutive four-quarter period exceeds the MCL, the
                                                             system is in violation of the MCL and must notify the public.
                                                             Compliance is based on an average of each three-sample set taken in the distribution system in
Chlorite10                  1.0                              accordance with Table 8B. If the average exceeds the MCL, the system is in violation of the
                                                             MCL and must notify the public.




                                                                          Page 65
                                                                               Table 1 (cont.)

1
 If EPA Methods 200.7 or 200.9 are used, the MDLs determined when samples are analyzed by direct analysis (i.e., no sample digestion) will be higher, because they were
determined using a 2x preconcentration step during sample digestion. Consider the need to preconcentrate, or the use of multiple in-furnace depositions to achieve required
MDLs. For direct analysis of cadmium by Method 200.7, sample preconcentration using pneumatic nebulization may be required to achieve lower detection limits.
Preconcentration may also be required for direct analysis of antimony, lead, and thallium by Method 200.9; antimony and lead by Standard Methods 3113 B; and lead by
ASTM Method D3559–90D, unless multiple in-furnace depositions are made.
2
 When metals or nitrate samples are collected, they may be acidified with a concentrated acid or a dilute (50% by volume) solution of the applicable concentrated acid. This
acidification may be done at the laboratory rather than at the time of sampling, provided the shipping time and other instructions in Section 8.3 of EPA Methods 200.7, 200.8,
or 200.9 are followed.
3
  mg/L = milligrams per liter
4
 Rounded to the same number of significant figures as the MCL for the contaminant in question.
5
 If Ligand Exchange and Amperometry is used for cyanide analysis; either ASTM Method D6888-04 or Method OIA–1677, DW, “Available Cyanide by Flow Injection,
Ligand Exchange, and Amperometry,” January 2004 are approved. EPA–821–R–04–001, is available from ALPKEM, A Division of OI Analytical, P.O. Box 9010, College
Station, TX 77842–9010; sulfide levels below those detected using lead acetate paper may produce positive method interferences. Samples should be tested using a more
sensitive sulfide method to determine if a sulfide interference is present, and samples shall be treated accordingly.
6
 Cyanide samples must be adjusted with sodium hydroxide to pH 12 at the time of collection. The sample must be shipped and stored at 4 °C or less.
7
 If iron and manganese are present, the total concentration of both should not exceed 0.5 mg/L. Higher levels may be allowed by the State when justified by the supplier of
water.
8
 Water containing more than 20 mg/L of sodium should not be used for drinking by people on severely restricted sodium diets. Water containing more than 270 mg/L of
sodium should not be used for drinking by people on moderately restricted sodium diets.
9
 Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using ozone for disinfection or oxidation must comply with the bromate standard.
10
   Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorite standard.
11
   Arsenic sampling results shall be reported to the nearest 0.001 mg/L.
12
   Any sample below the method detection limit shall be calculated at zero for the purpose of determining the annual average. If a system fails to collect the required number of
samples, compliance (average concentration) will be based on the total number of samples collected.
13
   If confirmation samples are collected, the average of the initial sample and any confirmation samples will be used for the determination of compliance and future monitoring
requirements.
14
   Systems are only required to conduct the increased monitoring frequency at the sampling point where the MCL was exceeded and for only the specific contaminant(s) that
triggered the system into the increased monitoring frequency.




                                                                                     Page 66
Table 2 - Nitrate, Nitrite, Total Nitrate/Nitrite Maximum Contaminant Level Determination
       Contaminants          MCL (mg/L)                  Determination of MCL violation
       Nitrate1              10 (as Nitrogen)2           If the results of a monitoring sample analysis exceed the MCL, the
       Nitrite               1 (as Nitrogen)             supplier of water shall collect another sample from the same
                                                         sampling point, within 24 hours of the receipt of results or as soon as
       Total Nitrate and
                         10 (as Nitrogen)                practical.3 An MCL violation occurs when the average of the two
       Nitrite                                           results exceeds the MCL.
       1
          Nitrate samples are to be shipped and stored at 4 °C or less and analyzed within 48 hours of collection. If the sample is
       chlorinated, the holding time for an unacidified sample kept at 4 °C is extended to 14 days.
       2
          An MCL of 20 mg/L may be permitted at a noncommunity water system if the supplier of water demonstrates that:
       (a) the water will not be available to children under six months of age;
       (b) a notice that nitrate levels exceed 10 mg/L and the potential health effects of exposure will be continuously posted
       according to the requirements of a Tier 1 notification;
       (c) the State will be notified annually of nitrate levels that exceed 10 mg/L; and
       (d) no adverse health effects shall result.
       3
         Systems unable to collect an additional sample within 24 hours must issue a Tier 1 notification and must collect the
       additional sample within two weeks of receiving the initial sample results .




                                                                                     Page 67
Table 3. Organic Chemicals Maximum Contaminant Level Determination

                                          MCL
 Contaminants                             (mg/L) Type of water system      Determination of MCL violation
                                                  Community, NTNC and      If the results of a monitoring sample analysis exceed the MCL, the
 General organic chemicals                        Noncommunity             supplier of water shall collect one to three more samples from the
                                                                           same sampling point, as soon as practical, but within 30 days. An
  Principal organic contaminant (POC)     0.005
                                                                           MCL violation occurs when at least one of the confirming samples is
  Unspecified organic contaminant (UOC)   0.05                             positive1 and the average of the initial sample and all confirming
                                                                           samples exceeds the MCL.
  Total POCs and UOCs                     0.1
                                                  Community and NTNC       For systems required to monitor quarterly, the results of all analyses
 Disinfection byproducts2,3
                                                                           at each monitoring location per quarter shall be arithmetically
  Total trihalomethanes                   0.080                            averaged and shall be reported to the State within 30 days of the
                                                                           public water system’s receipt of the analyses. A violation occurs if
  Haloacetic acids                        0.060                            the average of the four most recent sets of quarterly samples at a
                                                                           particular monitoring location (12-month locational running annual
                                                                           average (LRAA)) exceeds the MCL. If a system collects more than
                                                                           one sample per quarter at a monitoring location, the system shall
                                                                           average all samples taken in the quarter at that location to determine
                                                                           a quarterly average to be used in the LRAA calculation. If a system
                                                                           fails to complete four consecutive quarters of monitoring,
                                                                           compliance with the MCL will be based on an average of the
                                                                           available data from the most recent four quarters. An MCL violation
                                                                           for systems on annual or less frequent monitoring that have been
                                                                           increased to quarterly monitoring as outlined in Table 9A, is
                                                                           determined after four quarterly samples are taken.
                                                  Transient                Not applicable.
                                                  noncommunity




                                                                 Page 68
Table 3. Organic Chemicals Maximum Contaminant Level Determination (continued)
                                     MCL         Type of Water
 Contaminants                        (mg/L)      System               Determination of MCL violation
 Specific Organic Chemicals                         Community, NTNC If the results of a monitoring sample analysis exceed the MCL,
                                                    and Noncommunity the supplier of water shall collect one to three more samples
 Alachlor                              0.002                         from the same sampling point, as soon as practical, but within
 Aldicarb                              0.003                         30 days. An MCL violation occurs when at least one of the
 Aldicarb sulfone                      0.002                         confirming samples is positive1 and the average of the initial
 Aldicarb sulfoxide                    0.004                         sample and all confirming samples exceeds the MCL.
 Atrazine4                             0.003
 Benzo(a)pyrene                        0.0002
 Carbofuran                            0.04
 Chlordane                             0.002
 Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate             0.006
 Dibromochloropropane(DBCP)            0.0002
 2,4-D                                 0.05
 Dinoseb                               0.007
 Diquat                                0.02
 Endrin                                0.002
 Ethylene dibromide(EDB)               0.00005
 Heptachlor                            0.0004
 Heptachlor epoxide                    0.0002
 Hexachlorobenzene                     0.001
 Lindane                               0.0002
 Methoxychlor                          0.04
 Methyl-tertiary-butyl-ether(MTBE)     0.010
 Pentachlorophenol                     0.001
 Polychlorinated biphenyls(PCBs)5      0.0005
 Propylene glycol                      1.0
 Simazine                              0.004
 Toxaphene                             0.003
 2,4,5-TP (Silvex)                     0.01
 2,3,7,8-TCDD (dioxin)                 0.00000003
 Vinyl chloride                        0.002



                                                              Page 69
                                                                         Table 3 (continued)
1
   A sample is considered positive when the quantity reported by the State approved laboratory is greater than or equal to the method detection limit.
2
 For systems monitoring yearly or less frequently, the sample results for each monitoring location is considered the LRAA for that monitoring location. Systems required to
conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly shall monitor in the calendar month identified in the monitoring plan developed under section 5-
1.51(c).Compliance calculations shall be made beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date.
 3
    Systems that are demonstrating compliance with the avoidance criteria in section 5-1.30(c), shall comply with the TTHM and HAA5 LRAA MCLs; however the LRAA
MCLs are not considered for avoidance purposes. For avoidance purposes, TTHMs and HAA5s are based on a running annual average of analyses from all monitoring
locations.
4
   Syngenta Method AG–625, “Atrazine in Drinking Water by Immunoassay,” February 2001, available from Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc., 410 Swing Road, P.O. Box
18300, Greensboro, NC 27419. Telephone: 336–632–6000, may not be used for the analysis of atrazine in any system where chlorine dioxide is used for drinking water
treatment. In samples from all other systems, any result for atrazine generated by Method AG–625 that is greater than one-half the maximum contaminant level (MCL) (in
other words, greater than 0.0015mg/L or 1.5 µg/L) must be confirmed using another approved method for this contaminant and should use additional volume of the original
sample collected for compliance monitoring. In instances where a result from Method AG–625 triggers such confirmatory testing, the confirmatory result is to be used to
determine compliance
 5
   If PCBs (as one of seven Aroclors) are detected in any sample analyzed using EPA Method 505 or 508, the system shall reanalyze the sample using EPA Method 508A
to quantitate PCBs (as decachlorobiphenyl). Compliance with the PCB MCL shall be determined based upon the quantitative results of analyses using Method 508A.




                                                                               Page 70
                                       Table 3A. Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level (MRDL) Determination


Disinfectant                             MRDL1 (mg/L)            Type of water system    Determination of MRDL violation
Chlorine                                 4.0 (as Cl2)                                    Compliance is based on a running annual arithmetic
                                                                 Community and NTNC
                                                                                         average, computed quarterly, of monthly averages of all
Chloramines2                             4.0 (as Cl2)            using chlorine or
                                                                                         samples collected by the system. If the running annual
                                                                 chloramines as
                                                                                         average exceeds the MRDL, the system is in violation and
                                                                 disinfectant or oxidant
                                                                                         must notify the public.
Chlorine Dioxide                         0.8 (as ClO2)           Community, NTNC,        Public Health Hazard
                                                                 and Transient           (Acute Violation)
                                                                 Noncommunity using Compliance is based on daily samples collected by the
                                                                 chlorine dioxide as     system. If any daily sample taken at the entrance to the
                                                                 disinfectant or oxidant distribution system exceeds the MRDL, and on the
                                                                                         following day one (or more) of the three samples taken in
                                                                                         the distribution system exceeds the MRDL, the system is in
                                                                                         violation.
                                                                                         Nonacute Violation
                                                                                         Compliance is based on daily samples collected by the
                                                                                         system. If any two consecutive daily samples taken at the
                                                                                         entrance to the distribution system exceed the MRDL, and
                                                                                         all distribution system samples taken are below the MRDL,
                                                                                         the system is in violation.
1
 The monitoring and MRDL requirements for chlorine and chloramines in this column apply to community or nontransient noncommunity water systems that are
consecutive systems that do not add a disinfectant, but deliver water that has been treated with primary or residual disinfection other than ultraviolet light.
2
  In cases where systems switch between the use of chlorine and chloramines for residual disinfection during the year, compliance must be determined by including
together all Cl2 monitoring results of both chlorine and chloramines.




                                                                                 Page 71
Table 4. Entry Point Turbidity Maximum Contaminant Level Determination for Unfiltered Systems 1,2

 Contaminant                                                          MCL                    Determination of MCL violation
 Entry point turbidity (surface water and ground water                1 NTU 3,5              A violation occurs when the average of all daily entry
 directly influenced by surface water)                                (Monthly               point analyses for the month exceeds the MCL rounded
                                                                      Average)               off to the nearest whole number.

                                                                      5 NTU 4,5              A violation occurs when the average of two consecutive
                                                                                             daily entry point analyses exceeds the MCL rounded off
                                                                                             to the nearest whole number.
 1
   The requirements of this table apply to unfiltered systems that the State had determined, in writing pursuant to section 5-1.30 of this Subpart, must install
 filtration, until filtration is installed.
 2
   If formazin is used for turbidity testing, styrene divinyl benzene beads (e.g., AMCO-AEPA–1 or equivalent) and stabilized formazin (e.g., Hach StablCalTMor
 equivalent) may be substituted for formazin.
 3
   If the daily entry point analysis exceeds one NTU, a repeat sample must be taken as soon as practicable and preferably within one hour. If the repeat sample
 exceeds one NTU, the supplier of water must make State notification. The repeat sample must be used for the monthly average and the two consecutive day
 average.
 4
   If the two consecutive day average exceeds the MCL, the supplier of water shall analyze for microbiological contamination at a point downstream of the first
 consumer, but as close to the first consumer as is feasible. The additional microbiological sample should be taken within one hour as soon as feasible after
 determining the two consecutive day average. The supplier of water shall report the result of this microbiological analysis to the State within 48 hours of
 obtaining the result. The result of this analysis shall not be used for monitoring purposes
 5
   NTU = Nephelometric Turbidity Units




                                                                           Page 72
Table 4A. Surface Water Turbidity Performance Standards 1

                                              Performance
 Contaminant          Filtration type         standard1           Determination of treatment technique violation
 Filtered water       Conventional            0.3 NTU3,5          A treatment technique violation occurs if      The turbidity level of
 turbidity2           filtration and                              more than five percent of the composite filter representative samples of the
                      Direct Filtration                           effluent measurements taken each month         filtered water must at no time
                                                                  exceed the performance standard values.        exceed 1 NTU.4,5
                      Slow sand               1.0 NTU3            A treatment technique violation occurs if      The turbidity level of
                      filtration                                  more than five percent of the composite filter representative samples of the
                      Diatomaceous            1.0 NTU3            effluent measurements taken each month         filtered water must at no time
                      earth filtration                            exceed the performance standard values.        exceed 5 NTU.
                      Alternative             1.0 NTU3,4
                      filtration
 1
   The standards apply to systems with surface water sources or ground water sources directly influenced by surface water.
 2
   If formazin is used for turbidity testing, styrene divinyl benzene beads (e.g., AMCO-AEPA–1 or equivalent) and stabilized formazin (e.g., Hach StablCalTMor
 equivalent) may be substituted for formazin.
 3
   NTU= Nephelometric Turbidity Unit
 4
   The performance standard applies to alternative filtration technologies capable of complying with requirement of section 5-1.30(b) of this Subpart as
 demonstrated to the department by pilot studies, unless the department sets a turbidity performance standard for a specific system.
 5
   If the combined filter effluent turbidity exceeds 1 NTU, the system must consult with the State in accordance with section 5-1.78(d)(3) of this Subpart.



Table 5. Distribution System Turbidity Maximum Contaminant Level Determination

 Contaminant MCL Determination of MCL violation
 Distribution    5 NTU A violation occurs when the monthly average of the results of all distribution samples collected in any
 point turbidity       calendar month exceeds the MCL rounded off to the nearest whole number.




                                                                          Page 73
Table 6. Microbiological Contaminants Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL)/Treatment Technique Trigger (TTT)/ Treatment
Technique Violation (TTV) Determination1

                                    MCL
 Contaminant/        Sample         or TTT
 Trigger/Violation   Location       or TTV Performance Standard                Determination of MCL/TTV and TTT
                                             No positive sample4,5             A Level 1 TTT occurs at systems collecting 40 or more samples per
                                    TTT3                                       month when more than 5.0 percent of the samples are total coliform
                                                                               positive

                                    TTT3                                       A Level 1 TTT occurs at systems collecting less than 40 samples per
                                                                               month when two or more samples are total coliform positive.
                                                                               A Level 1 TTT occurs at any system that fails to collect every
 Total coliform2                    TTT3                                       required repeat sample after any single total coliform positive
                                                                               sample.
                                                                               A Level 2 TTT occurs at any system that has a second Level 1
                                                                               trigger within a rolling 12-month period, unless the State has
                                    TTT6                                       determined a likely reason that the samples that caused the first
                     Distribution                                              Level 1 TTT were total coliform positive and has established that
                     Sample                                                    the system has corrected the problem.
 Escherichia coli    Sites                   No positive sample5,7             An MCL violation and Level 2 TTT occurs when a total coliform
 (E. coli)                          MCL/                                       sample is positive for E. coli and a repeat total coliform sample is
                                    TTT4,6                                     positive.
                                             No positive sample5,7             An MCL violation and Level 2 TTT occurs when a total coliform
                                    MCL/                                       sample is positive for total coliform but negative for E. coli and a
                                    TTT4,6                                     repeat total coliform sample is positive for E. coli.
                                                                               An MCL violation and Level 2 TTT occurs when a total coliform
                                    MCL/                                       sample is positive for total coliform but negative for E. coli and a
                                    TTT4,6                                     repeat total coliform positive sample is not analyzed for E. coli.
                                                                               An MCL violation occurs when a system fails to collect every
                                    MCL/                                       required repeat sample after any E. coli positive routine sample.
                                    TTT4,6



                                                                     Page 74
                                         MCL
Contaminant/            Sample           or TTT
                                                                                           Determination of MCL/TTV and TTT
Trigger/Violation       Location         or TTV Performance Standard
Fecal indicator:                                    No fecal indicator in                  A TTV occurs when a raw water sample is positive for the fecal
E. coli, and/or   Untreated                         samples collected from raw             indicator contaminant and system does not provide and document,
enterococci,      Water from                        source water from a ground             through process compliance monitoring, 4-log virus treatment
and/or coliphage8 a Ground               TTV        water source.9                         during peak flow at first customer. If repeat sampling of the raw
                  Water                                                                    water is directed by the State and all additional samples are negative
                  Source                                                                   for fecal indicator, there is no TTV.9
Other trigger or                                                                           A TTV occurs when a system exceeds a TTT and then fails to
violation                                TTV4                                              conduct the required assessment or corrective actions.
                                                                                           A TTV occurs when a seasonal system fails to complete a State-
                                         TTV4                                              approved start-up procedure prior to serving water to the public.



1
  All samples collected in accordance with Table 11 footnotes 1 and 2 and Table 11B of this section and samples collected in accordance with subdivision 5-1.51(g) of
this Subpart shall be included in determining compliance with the MCL, TTT, and/or TTV unless any of the samples have been invalidated by the State.
2
  Total coliform method additions or modifications to approved methods:
      • For total coliform (TC) samples collected from untreated surface water or GWUDI sources, the time from sample collection to initiation of analysis may not
          exceed 8 hours and the samples must be held below 10 degrees C during transit to the laboratory. For other TC samples, the time from collection to initiation of
          analysis may not exceed 30 hours. Systems are encouraged, but not required, to hold TC samples below 10 degrees C during transit.
      • If the Total Coliform Fermentation Technique using standard methods 9221A or B is used, and if inverted tubes are used to detect gas production, the media
          should cover these tubes at least one half to two-thirds after the sample is added. Also, no requirement exists to run the completed phase on 10 percent of all TC-
          positive confirmed tubes. Additionally, lactose broth, as commercially available, may be used in lieu of lauryl tryptose broth, if the system conducts at least 25
          parallel tests between this medium and lauryl tryptose broth using the water normally tested, and this comparison demonstrates that the false-positive rate and
          false-negative rate for TC, using lactose broth, is less than 10 percent.
      • If Membrane Filter Technique Standard Methods 9222A, B, and optionally C are used, MI agar also may be used. Verification of colonies is not required.
    •    If the Standard Methods Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test, 9221D is used, six-times formulation strength may be used if the medium is filter-sterilized
         rather than autoclaved.
    •    If the Total Coliform Membrane Filter Technique, Standard Methods 9222 A, B, C is used, MI agar also may be used. Verification of colonies is not required.
    •    For any TC testing it is strongly recommended that laboratories evaluate the false-positive and negative rates for the method(s) they use for monitoring TC.
         Laboratories are also encouraged to establish false-positive and false-negative rates within their own laboratory and sample matrix (drinking water or source
         water) with the intent that if the method they choose has an unacceptable false-positive or negative rate, another method can be used. It is suggested that
         laboratories perform these studies on a minimum of 5% of all TC-positive samples, except for those methods where verification/ confirmation is already
         required. Methods for establishing false-positive and negative-rates may be based on lactose fermentation, the rapid test for β-galactosidase and cytochrome
         oxidase, multi-test identification systems, or equivalent confirmation tests. False-positive and false-negative information is often available in published studies
         and/or from the manufacturer(s).


                                                                                 Page 75
                                                                              Table 6 (cont.)

3
  The system must complete a Level 1 assessment as soon as practical after exceeding any Level 1 TTT. The system must submit the completed Level 1 assessment form
to the State within 30 days after the system learns that it has exceeded a trigger. Corrective actions shall be addressed in accordance with section 5-1.71(e) of this Subpart
4
  See Table 13 for public notification requirements
5
  If any total coliform or E. Coli sample is positive, repeat samples must be collected in accordance with Table 11B of this section.
6
  A Level 2 assessment must be completed within 30 days after the system learns that it has exceeded a trigger. Corrective actions shall be addressed in accordance with
section 5-1.71(e) of this Subpart.
7
  For notification purpose, an E. coli MCL violation in the distribution system is a public health hazard requiring Tier 1 notification. At a ground water system, Tier 1
notification is required after initial detection of E. coli or other fecal indicator in raw source water, if the system does not provide 4-log virus treatment and process
compliance monitoring, even if not confirmed with additional sampling.
8
  For any fecal indicator sample collected as described in section 5-1.52, Table 6, the time from sample collection to initiation of analysis may not exceed 30 hours. The
system is encouraged but is not required to hold samples below 10 °C during transit.
9
  If raw water source sample is fecal indicator positive, the water system, in consultation with the State, may collect an additional 5 samples within 24 hours at each
source that tested fecal indicator positive. If none of the additional samples are fecal indicator positive, then there is no TTV. Note that Tier 1 notification must be made
after the initial raw water fecal indicator positive sample, even if it is not confirmed with additional sampling.




                                                                                 Page 76
Table 7. Radiological Maximum Contaminant Level Determination1


 Contaminant                              MCL                                Type of water system                            Determination of MCL violation2
 Combined radium-226 and                  5 picocuries per liter             Community                                       A violation occurs when a sample or the
 radium-228                                                                                                                  annual average of samples at any
 Gross alpha activity (including          15 picocuries per liter            Community                                       sampling point exceeds the MCL3,4,5,6,7.
 radium-226 but excluding
 radon and uranium)
 Uranium8                                 30 micrograms per liter            Community
 Beta particle and photon                 Four millirems (mrem)              Community Water Systems                         A violation occurs when a sample or the
 radioactivity from manmade               per year as the annual             designated by the State as                      annual average of samples at any
 radionuclides                            dose equivalent to the             vulnerable                                      sampling point exceeds the
                                          total body or any internal                                                         MCL3,4,5,7,9,10,11
                                          organ9.                            Community systems designated by                 A violation occurs when a sample or the
                                                                             the State as utilizing waters                   annual average of samples at any
                                                                             contaminated by effluents from                  sampling point exceeds the
                                                                             nuclear facilities                              MCL3,4,5,7,9,10,11
 1
   The Radionuclides Rule including the MCLs and minimum monitoring requirements applies to only community water systems.
 2
   To judge compliance with the maximum contaminant levels, averages of data shall be used and shall be rounded to the same number of significant figures as the
 maximum contaminant level for the substance in question.
 3
   For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point. If the average of any
 sampling point is greater than the MCL, then the system is out of compliance with the MCL.
 4
   For systems monitoring more than once a year, if any sample result will cause the running average to exceed the MCL at any sample point, e.g., a single sample result
 is greater than four times of the MCL, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately .
 5
   If a system does not collect all required samples when compliance is based on a running annual average of quarterly samples, compliance will be based on the running
 average of the samples collected.
 6
   If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average, unless a gross alpha particle activity is being used in lieu of radium-
 226 and/or uranium. If the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection and is substituted for radium-226 and/or uranium, ½ the detection limit will be used to
 calculate the annual average.
 7
   If the MCL for radionuclides in this Table is exceeded, the community water system must give notice to the State.
 8
   If uranium (U) is determined by mass-type methods (i.e., fluorometric or laser phosphorimetry), a 0.67 pCi/µg of uranium conversion factor must be used.
 9
   A system must determine compliance with the MCL for beta particle and photon radioactivity by using the calculation described below:
 [pCi/L found in sample (from laboratory results) / pCi/L equivalent of 4 mrem of exposure] = fraction of the maximum 4 mrem/year exposure limit
 10
    To determine compliance with the MCL, a system must monitor at a frequency as described in Table 12.
 11
    If the results show an MCL violation for any of the constituents, the system must conduct monthly monitoring for all species at any sampling point that exceeds the
 MCL. Monitoring must be conducted in accordance with Table 12 in this section. A system can resume quarterly monitoring if the rolling average of three months of
 samples is at or below the MCL.


                                                                                       Page 77
Table 8A. Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements for Asbestos

                                                      Initial frequency by source type5
                      Type of water            Groundwater             Surface only or surface
 Contaminant          system                         only                 and groundwater                        Repeat sampling and compliance
 Asbestos1            Community             One sample at entry One sample at entry point by                     If GT MCL, one sample quarterly.6, 7
                      and NTNC              point by 12/31/95 2,3,4 12/31/95 2,3,4                               If LT MCL, one sample every nine years.
 GT = Greater Than LT = Less Than

 If a system is not vulnerable to asbestos contamination, either at its source or due to corrosion of asbestos cement pipe, it is not required to monitor if granted a
 1

 waiver by the State. The waiver must be renewed by the State every nine years. The basis for a waiver must include the following:
     1. Lack of potential asbestos contamination of the water source
     2. No use of asbestos cement pipe for finished water distribution and noncorrosive nature of the water.
 2
  If asbestos monitoring data collected after January 1, 1990 are consistent with the requirements of this table, the State may allow systems to use that data to
 satisfy the initial monitoring requirement beginning January 1, 1993.
 3
  If a system is vulnerable to asbestos contamination due to source water and corrosion of asbestos cement pipe or solely to corrosion of asbestos cement pipe, it
 shall take one sample at a tap served by asbestos cement pipe and under conditions where asbestos contamination is most likely to occur.
 4
  If a system is vulnerable to asbestos contamination due to source water only, monitoring shall be conducted as follows:
      •    Groundwater - Collect a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system representative of each well after treatment.
      •    Surface water - Collect a minimum of one sample at each entry point to the distribution system after any application of treatment or in the distribution
           system at a point which is representative of each source after treatment.
 5
  For both types of water sources the system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more
 representative of each source or treatment plant. If a system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the
 system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions when water is representative of all sources.
 6
  A system which exceeds the MCL for asbestos shall monitor quarterly beginning in the next quarter after the violation occurred.
 7
  State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to the initial sampling requirement provided that the State has determined that the system is reliably
 and consistently below the MCL on the basis of a minimum of two quarterly groundwater samples and a minimum of four quarterly samples for surface water.




                                                                                   Page 78
Table 8B. Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements

                                                                        Initial frequency of source type1
                                                              Groundwater                     Surface only or surface
 Contaminant         Type of water system                          only                         and ground water                         Accelerated sampling2
 Antimony                                            One sample per entry point        One sample per entry point per year9              If GT MCL, one sample
 Arsenic                                             every 3 years                                                                       quarterly. 6,7
 Barium
 Beryllium                                                                                                                               If LT MCL, maintain
 Cadmium             Community and NTNC3,4,5                                                                                             initial frequency.
 Chromium                                            State discretion8                     State discretion8                             State discretion8
 Cyanide
 Mercury
 Nickel
 Selenium
 Thallium
 Fluoride            Transient noncommunity
 Bromate9            Community and NTNC              One sample per month at each          One sample per month at each entry            State discretion8
                     using ozone for                 entry point10, 11                     point10, 11
                     disinfection or oxidation
 Chlorite12          Community and NTNC              Daily samples at each entry           Daily samples at each entry point.            State discretion8
                     using chlorine dioxide for      point. Additional three-sample        Additional three-sample set monthly
                     disinfection or oxidation       set monthly in the distribution       in the distribution System11,13,14, 15
                                                     System11,13,14, 15
 GT = Greater Than; LT = Less Than
 1
   For all types of water sources the system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative
 of each source or treatment plant. If a system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at
 an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions when water is representative of all sources, or separately at the individual
 sources. The State may allow systems to composite samples in accordance with the conditions in Appendix 5-C. All samples taken and analyzed in accordance
 with the monitoring plan must be included in determining compliance, even if the number is greater than the minimum required.
 2
   The average of the initial and confirmation sample contaminant concentration at each sampling point shall be used to determine compliance with the MCL.
 3
   A waiver from the required initial monitoring frequencies may be granted by the State, based upon the following conditions:
 a. A minimum of one sample shall be collected while the waiver is effective;
 b. Surface water systems must have monitored annually for at least three years and ground water systems must have conducted a minimum of three rounds of
 monitoring with at least one sample taken since January 1, 1990;
 c. All results must be less than the MCL;
 d. New sources are not eligible for a waiver until completion of three rounds of sampling; and




                                                                                 Page 79
                                                                       Table 8B (cont.)
e. Waivers issued by the State shall be made in writing, shall cite the basis for determination and shall not exceed a maximum of nine years
 4
    To determine the appropriate reduced monitoring frequency, the State shall consider:
a. Reported concentrations from all previous monitoring;
b. Variations in reported concentrations; and
c. Other factors which may affect contaminant concentrations such as changes in ground water pumping rates, changes in the system's configuration, operating
procedures, stream flows or other characteristics.
5
   The State may require or the water system may request more frequent monitoring frequencies than is minimally required. The State, at its discretion, may require
confirmation samples.
6
   The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to the initial sampling requirement provided that it is determined that the system is reliably and
consistently below the MCL on the basis of a minimum of two quarterly ground water samples and a minimum of four quarterly samples for surface water.
7
   If concentrations of a listed contaminant exceed the MCL, the department requires the collection of an additional sample as soon as possible but not to exceed
two weeks.
8
   State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation or
the contaminant may present a risk to public health.
9
   Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using ozone for disinfection or oxidation must comply with the bromate monitoring requirement.
10
    Systems required to analyze for bromate may reduce monitoring from monthly to once per quarter, if the system’s running annual average bromate
concentration is ≤0.0025 mg/l based on monthly bromate measurements for the most recent four quarters. A system may remain on reduced bromate monitoring
until the running annual average source water bromide concentration, computed quarterly, is equal to or greater than 0.025 mg/L. If the average bromide
concentration is equal to or greater than 0.025 mg/L, the system must resume routine monthly bromate monitoring.
11
    Failure to monitor will be treated as a monitoring violation for the entire period covered by an annual average where compliance is based on an annual average
of monthly or quarterly samples or averages and a system's failure to monitor makes it impossible to determine MCL compliance.
12
    Community and nontransient noncommunity water systems using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorite monitoring
requirement.
13
    On each day following a sample result that exceeds the chlorite MCL at the entrance to the distribution system, the system must take three chlorite distribution
system samples at the following locations: as close to the first customer as possible, in a location representative of average residence time, and in a location
representative of maximum residence time. The samples comprising the three-sample set required for routine monitoring must be collected at the same three
locations in the distribution system that are used when following up on a daily MCL exceedance at the entry point. The system may use results of additional
monitoring, conducted as the result of an entry point MCL exceedance, to meet the requirement for routine monthly monitoring.
14
    Daily chlorite monitoring at the entrance to the distribution system may not be reduced. Monthly chlorite monitoring in the distribution system may be reduced
to one three-sample set per quarter after one year of monitoring where no individual chlorite sample taken in the distribution system has exceeded the chlorite
MCL. If the system has had to conduct distribution system monitoring as a result of an MCL exceedance at the entry point, the system cannot reduce monitoring.
The system may remain on a reduced monitoring schedule until either any of the three individual chlorite samples taken quarterly in the distribution system
exceeds the chlorite MCL or the system is required to conduct distribution system monitoring because of an entry point chlorite MCL exceedance.
15
    A system must monitor according to its monitoring plan as described in section 5-1.51(c) of this Subpart. Failure to monitor in accordance with the monitoring
plan is a monitoring violation.




                                                                                Page 80
Table 8C. Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements - Nitrates, Nitrites

                                               Initial frequency of source type1,6
             Type of water                  Groundwater Surface only or surface
 Contaminant system                              only          and ground water                  Accelerated sampling7
 Nitrate     Community and                  One sample       One sample per entry                For Groundwater: if equal to or GT 50 percent
             Noncommunity2                  per entry point point quarterly                      MCL, quarterly for one year3
                                            per year                                             For Surface Water: If LT 50 percent MCL, one
                                                                                                 sample per year3,4
 Nitrite           Community and            One sample      One sample per entry                 If equal to or GT 50 percent MCL, repeat
                   Noncommunity             per entry point point by 12/31/95                    quarterly for at least one year3,4
                                            by 12/31/95                                          If LT 50 percent MCL, sample frequency at State
                                                                                                 discretion5
 GT = Greater Than LT = Less Than
 1
  The State may require, or the water system may request, more frequent monitoring frequencies than is minimally required. The State at its discretion may
 require confirmation samples for positive and negative results.
 2
  Noncommunity water systems must sample annually beginning 1/1/93 regardless of the water source.
 3
  The frequency may be reduced to annual if the State determines the systems contaminant concentration is consistently and reliably less than the MCL and
 annual samples are collected during the quarter(s) having the highest analytical results.
 4
  A surface water shall return to quarterly monitoring if any one sample is GT 50 percent of MCL.
 5
  State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation
 or the contaminant may present a risk to public health.
 6
   For both types of water sources the system shall take each sample at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more
 representative of each source or treatment plant. If a system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution the
 system must sample at an entry point to the distribution systems during periods of normal operating conditions when water is representative of all sources.
 The average of the initial and confirmation sample contaminant concentration at each sampling point shall be used to determine compliance with the MCL.




                                                                                Page 81
Table 8D. Inorganic Chemicals and Physical Characteristics Minimum Monitoring Requirements - Other Chemicals

                                                              Initial frequency of source type
                        Type of water                                          Surface only or surface
                                                      Groundwater only
 Contaminant            system                                                    and ground water     Sampling and compliance
                                                                    2                          2
 Chloride               Community and              State discretion           State discretion         State discretion2
 Iron                   NTNC
 Manganese
 Silver
 Sodium1
 Sulfate
 Zinc
 Color
 Odor
 1
  All community systems with sodium levels exceeding 20 mg/l will be required to sample for sodium analysis.
 2
  State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation or
 the contaminant may present a risk to public health.




                                                                                Page 82
     Table 9A. Organic Chemicals – Disinfection Byproducts Minimum Monitoring Requirements1

                                                    Routine Monitoring                 Reduced Monitoring2
                                                    Distribution
                                                    System                             Distribution
                Source Water                        monitoring                         System monitoring
                                Population Size                          Frequency4                          Frequency
                Type                                location per                       locations per
                                                    monitoring                         monitoring period
                                                    period3
Total           Surface water   <500                        25           per year 6       not allowed        not allowed
Trihalomethanes and GWUDI       500 – 3,300                 25           per quarter           25            per year 6
(TTHM)                          3,301 – 9,999                2           per quarter           27            per year 6
                                10,000 – 49,999              4           per quarter           28            per quarter
Haloacetic
Acids (HAA5)                    50,000 – 249,999             8           per quarter           49            per quarter
                                250,000 – 999,999           12           per quarter          6 10           per quarter
                                1,000,000 –                 16           per quarter          8 11           per quarter
                                4,999,999
                                ≥5,000,000                 20            per quarter         10 12           per quarter
                Ground water    <500                       25            per year 6           25             every third year 6
                                500 – 9,999                 2            per year 6           25             per year 6
                                10,000 – 99,999             4            per quarter          27             per year 6
                                100,000 – 499,999           6            per quarter          28             per quarter
                                ≥500,000                    8            per quarter          49             per quarter




                                                        Page 83
                                                                 Table 9A (continued)
1
 To comply with monitoring requirements, certain conditions must be applied to test methods. The following apply to any samples collected for compliance
with section 5-1.50(o) of this Subpart:
• Total Organic Carbon (TOC) samples. Inorganic carbon must be removed from TOC samples prior to analysis. TOC samples may not be filtered prior to
analysis. TOC samples must be acidified at the time of sample collection to achieve pH less than or equal to 2 with minimal addition of the acid specified in
the method or by the instrument manufacturer. Acidified TOC samples must be analyzed within 28 days.
• SUVA Samples:
              For Specific Ultraviolet Absorbance (SUVA) samples, SUVA must be determined on water prior to the addition of disinfectants/oxidants by
              the system. Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC) and Ultraviolet Absorption at 254 nm (UV254) samples used to determine a SUVA value must
              be taken at the same time and at the same location.

              DOC samples must be filtered through the 0.45 µm pore-diameter filter as soon as practical after sampling, not to exceed 48 hours. After
              filtration, DOC samples must be acidified to achieve pH less than or equal to 2 with minimal addition of the acid specified in the method or
              by the instrument manufacturer. Acidified DOC samples must be analyzed within 28 days of sample collection. Inorganic carbon must be
              removed from the samples prior to analysis. Water passed through the filter prior to filtration of the sample must serve as the filtered blank.
              This filtered blank must be analyzed using procedures identical to those used for analysis of the samples and must meet the following criteria:
              DOC < 0.5 mg/L.

              For UV254 samples, UV absorption must be measured at 253.7 nm (may be rounded off to 254 nm). Prior to analysis, UV254samples must
              be filtered through a 0.45 µm pore-diameter filter. The pH of UV254samples may not be adjusted. Samples must be analyzed as soon as
              practical after sampling, not to exceed 48 hours.
2
 Systems may reduce monitoring if, at all monitoring locations, the TTHM LRAA is ≤0.040 mg/L and the HAA5 LRAA is ≤0.030 mg/L. In addition, the
source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, shall be ≤4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or GWUDI. A system with
quarterly reduced monitoring may remain on reduced monitoring as long as the TTHM LRAA is ≤0.040 mg/L and the HAA5 LRAA is ≤0.030 mg/L at each
monitoring location. For systems with annual or less frequent monitoring, each TTHM sample shall be ≤0.060 mg/L and each HAA5 sample shall be ≤0.045
mg/L. In addition, the source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, shall be ≤4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or
GWUDI. If these conditions are not met, or at the State’s discretion, the system shall resume routine monitoring in the quarter immediately following the
exceedance (for quarterly systems) or in the year immediately following the exceedance (for systems that monitor annually or less frequently).
3
 A system shall monitor according to its monitoring plan as described in section 5-1.51(c) of this Subpart. Failure to monitor in accordance with the
monitoring plan is a monitoring violation. All systems shall monitor during the month of highest Disinfection Byproducts concentrations. Monitoring shall
be increased to quarterly at all locations if a TTHM sample is > 0.080 mg/L or a HAA5 sample is >0.060 mg/L.
4
 Systems on quarterly monitoring shall take dual sample sets every 90 days at each monitoring location, except for surface water and GWUDI systems
serving a population of 500 -3,300. Ground water systems serving a population of 500 – 9,999 on annual monitoring shall take dual sample sets at each
monitoring location. All other systems on annual monitoring and surface water and GWUDI systems serving a population of 500 – 3,300 are required to
take individual TTHM and HAA5 samples (instead of dual sample set) at the locations with the highest TTHM and HAA5 concentrations, respectively. For
systems serving fewer than 500 people, only one location with a dual sample set per monitoring period is needed if the highest TTHM and HAA5
concentrations occur at the same location and month.
5
 Collect one TTHM sample at the location and during the quarter with the highest TTHM single measurement, and one HAA5 sample at the location and
during the quarter with the highest HAA5 single measurement; alternatively, collect one dual sample set per year if the highest TTHM and HAA5
measurements occurred at the same location and quarter.
6
 If a system is required to monitor a particular location annually or less frequently, and a TTHM sample is >0.080 mg/L or a HAA5 sample is >0.060 mg/L
at any location, the system shall increase monitoring to dual sample sets once per quarter (taken every 90 days) at all locations. The system may return to
routine monitoring if at least four consecutive quarters of increased monitoring have been conducted and for every monitoring location the TTHM LRAA
≤0.060 mg/L and the HAA5 LRAA is ≤0.045 mg/L.

                                                                      Page 84
Table 9A (continued)

7
 Collect one dual sample set at the location and during the quarter of the highest TTHM single measurement, and one dual sample set at the location and
during the quarter of the highest HAA5 single measurement.
8
 Collect dual sample sets at the locations with the highest TTHM and HAA5 LRAAs.
9
 Collect dual sample sets at the locations with the two highest TTHM and two highest HAA5 LRAAs.
10
  Collect dual sample sets at the locations with the three highest TTHM and three highest HAA5 LRAAs.
11
  Collect dual sample sets at the locations with the three highest TTHM and three highest HAA5 LRAAs.
12
  Collect dual sample sets at the locations with the five highest TTHM and five highest HAA5 LRAAs.




                                                                     Page 85
Table 9B. Organic Chemicals - POCs, Vinyl Chloride, Methyl-tertiary-butyl-ether (MTBE), UOCs, Propylene Glycol Minimum
                                                    Monitoring Requirements

                                                                                                Continuing
                                                                                                requirement                Continuing requirement
                                                                   Continuing                   where not detected         where not detected and
                           Type of water          Initial          requirement                  and vulnerable to          invulnerable to
 Contaminant               system                 requirement  1   where detected1              contamination1             contamination1
 Principal Organic         Community and          Quarterly sample Quarterly4                   Annually5                  Once every six years6for
 Contaminants              Nontransient           per source for                                                           groundwater sources. State
 listed on Table 9D        Noncommunity           one year.3                                                               discretion7 for surface water
 and Vinyl chloride        serving 3,300 or                                                                                sources.
 and Methyl-               more persons
 tertiary-butyl-ether
 (MTBE)2              Community and               Quarterly sample Quarterly4                   Annually5                  Once every six years6for
                      Nontransient                per source for                                                           groundwater sources. State
                      Noncommunity                one year.3                                                               discretion7 for surface water
                      serving fewer                                                                                        sources.
                      than 3,300
                      persons
                      Noncommunity                State discretion7      State discretion7 State discretion7               State discretion7
                      excluding
                      NTNC
 Unspecified        Community and                 State discretion7      State discretion7 State discretion7               State discretion7
 Organic            Noncommunity
 Contaminants and
 other
 POCs not listed on
 Table 9C or 9D
 and
 Propylene glycol
 1
  The location for sampling of each ground water source of supply shall be between the individual well and at or before the first service connection and before
 mixing with other sources, unless otherwise specified by the State to be at the entry point representative of the individual well. Public water systems which
 rely on a surface water shall sample at points in the distribution system representative of each source or at an entry point or points to the distribution system
 after any water treatment plant.



                                                                              Page 86
                                                                  Table 9B (continued)
2
  The initial requirement does not apply to MTBE monitoring
3
  The State may reduce the initial monitoring requirement to one sample if the State determines that the system is invulnerable in accordance with footnote 4.
4
  The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to annually provided that the system is reliably and consistently below the MCL based on a
minimum of two quarterly samples from a ground water source and four quarterly samples from a surface water source. Systems which monitor annually must
monitor during the quarter which previously yielded the highest analytical result.
5
  The State may reduce the frequency of monitoring of a ground water source to once every three years for a public water system which has three consecutive
annual samples with no detection of a contaminant.
6
  The State may determine that a public water system is invulnerable to a contaminant or contaminants after evaluating every three years the following factors:
   a. Knowledge of previous use (including transport, storage, or disposal) of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence of the system. If a
determination by the State reveals no previous use of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence, a waiver can be granted.
   b. If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be used to determine whether a waiver can
be granted.
         1.Previous analytical results.
         2.The proximity of the system to a potential point or nonpoint source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a
         water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste
         handling or treatment facilities.
         3.The environmental persistence and transport of the contaminants.
         4.The number of persons served by the public water system and the proximity of a smaller system to a larger system.
         5.How well the water source is protected against contamination, such as whether it is a surface or ground water system. Ground water systems must
         consider factors such as depth of the well, the type of soil, and wellhead protection. Surface water systems must consider watershed protection.
7
 State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation
or the contaminant may present a risk to public health.




                                                                            Page 87
Table 9C. Organic Chemicals - Pesticides, Dioxin, PCBs Minimum Monitoring Requirements

                                                                                          Continuing
                                                 Type of water         Initial                            Continuing requirement
                 Contaminant                                                          requirement where
                                                    system          requirement1,                           where not detected1
                                                                                         detected1,2,3,4
 Group 1 Chemicals   Group 2 Chemicals          Community and      Quarterly          Quarterly          One sample every eighteen
                                                Nontransient       sample per                            months per source6,7,8
 Alachlor             Aldrin                    Noncommunity       source, for one
 Aldicarb             Benzo(a)pyrene            serving 3,300 or   year 5
 Aldicarb sulfoxide   Butachlor                 more persons3
 Aldicarb sulfone     Carbaryl                  Community and      Quarterly          Quarterly           Once per entry point every
 Atrazine             Dalapon                   Nontransient       samples per                            three years6,7,8
 Carbofuran           Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate   Noncommunity       entry point, for
 Chlordane            Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate serving fewer      one year6,7,8
 Dibromochloropropane Dicamba                   than 3,300
 2,4-D                Dieldrin                  persons and more
 Endrin               Dinoseb                   than 149 service
 Ethylene Dibromide Diquat                      connections
 Heptachlor           Endothall                 Community and      Quarterly          Quarterly           Once per entry point every
 Heptachlor epoxide Glyphosate                  Nontransient       samples per                            three years6,7,8
 Lindane              Hexachlorobenzene         Noncommunity       entry point for
 Methoxychlor         Hexachlorocyclopentadie serving fewer        one year6,7,8
 Polychlorinated      ne                        than 3,300
 biphenyls            3-Hydroxycarbofuran       persons and
 Pentachlorophenol    Methomyl                  fewer than 150
 Toxaphene            Metolachlor               service
 2,4,5-TP (Silvex)    Metribuzin                connections
                      Oxamyl (vydate)           Noncommunity       State discretion9 State discretion9    State discretion9
                      Picloram                  excluding
                      Propachlor                NTNC
                      Simazine
                      2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)




                                                             Page 88
                                                                     Table 9C (continued)
  1
     The location for sampling of each ground water source of supply shall be between the individual well and at or before the first service connection and
   before mixing with other sources, unless otherwise specified by the State to be at the entry point representative of the individual well. Public water systems
   which take water from a surface water body or watercourse shall sample at points in the distribution system representative of each source or at entry point or
   points to the distribution system after any water treatment plant.
   2
     The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement to annually provided that system is reliably and consistently below the MCL based on a
   minimum of two quarterly samples from a ground water source and four quarterly samples from a surface water source. Systems which monitor annually
   must monitor during the quarter that previously yielded the highest analytical result. Systems serving fewer than 3,300 persons and which have three
   consecutive annual samples without detection may apply to the State for a waiver in accordance with footnote 6.
   3
     If a contaminant is detected, repeat analysis must include all analytes contained in the approved analytical method for the detected contaminant.
   4
     Detected as used in the table shall be defined as reported by the State approved laboratory to be greater than or equal to the method detection levels.
   5
     The State may allow a system to postpone monitoring for a maximum of two years, if an approved laboratory is not reasonably available to do a required
   analysis within the scheduled monitoring period.
   6
     The State may waive the monitoring requirement for a public water system that submits information every three years to demonstrate that a contaminant or
   contaminants was not used, transported, stored or disposed within the watershed or zone of influence of the system.
   7
     The State may reduce the monitoring requirement for a public water system that submits information every three years to demonstrate that the public water
   system is invulnerable to contamination. If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be
   used to determine whether a waiver is granted.
          a. Previous analytical results.
          b. The proximity of the system to a potential point or nonpoint source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a
          water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste handling
          or treatment facilities. Nonpoint sources include the use of pesticides to control insect and weed pests on agricultural areas, forest lands, home and
          gardens, and other land application uses.
          c. The environmental persistence and transport of the pesticide or PCBs.
          d. How well the water source is protected against contamination due to such factors as depth of the well and the type of soil and the integrity of the well
            casing.
          e. Elevated nitrate levels at the water supply source.
          f. Use of PCBs in equipment used in production, storage or distribution of water
 8
   The State may allow systems to composite samples in accordance with the conditions in Appendix 5-C of this Title.
 9
   State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation or
the contaminant may present a risk to public health.




                                                                                  Page 89
Table 9D. Organic Chemicals - POCs Minimum Monitoring Requirements

            Contaminant                              Specific Contaminants for analysis
                                                1
     POCs                             Benzene                    cis-1,3-Dichloropropene
                                      Bromobenzene               Trans-1,3-Dichloropropene
                                      Bromochloromethane         ethylbenzene1
                                      Bromomethane               hexachlorobutadiene
                                      N-Butylbenzene             Isopropylbenzene
                                      Sec-Butylbenzene           p-Isopropyltoluene
                                      Tert-Butylbenzene          Methylene Chloride1
                                                            1
                                      Carbon Tetrachloride       n-Propylbenzene
                                      Chlorobenzene              Styrene1
                                      Chloroethane               1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
                                      Chloromethane              1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
                                      2-Chlorotoluene            Tetrachloroethene1
                                      4-Chlorotoluene            Toluene1
                                      Dibromomethane             1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene
                                      1,2-Dichlorobenzene1       1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene1
                                      1,3-Dichlorobenzene        1,1,1-Trichloroethane1
                                                           1
                                      1,4-Dichlorobenzene        1,1,2-Trichloroethane1
                                      Dichlorodifluoromethane Trichloroethene1
                                      1,1-Dichloroethane         Trichlorofluoromethane
                                                         1
                                      1,2-Dichloroethane         1,2,3-Trichloropropane
                                      1,1-Dichloroethene1        1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene
                                                              1
                                      cis-1,2-Dichloroethene     1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene
                                      trans-1,2-Dichloroethene1 m-Xylene1
                                      1,2-Dichloropropane1       o-Xylene1
                                      1,3-Dichloropropane        p-Xylene1
                                      2,2-Dichloropropane
                                      1,1-Dichloropropene
     1
      Notification must contain mandatory health effect language.




                                                             Page 90
Table 10. Turbidity Minimum Monitoring Requirements for Unfiltered Systems Pending Filtration 1

                                 Source Type                               Surface only, surface and ground water, or ground water directly
                        Type of water   Groundwater                                           influenced by surface water
Contaminant                system             only
Entry point            Community      State discretion2                Collect and analyze one sample per day from each entry point. All results
turbidity                                                              must be recorded to two significant figures.

                       Noncommunity           State discretion2        Collect and analyze one sample annually. Monitoring requirement may be
                                                                       increased at State discretion.2
Distribution           Community              State discretion2        Five distribution samples each week unless otherwise determined by the
point turbidity                                                        State. No two samples may be obtained on the same day and no two
                                                                       samples are to be collected from the same distribution point during the
                                                                       week.
                       Noncommunity           State discretion2        State discretion2
1
 The requirements of this table apply to unfiltered systems that the State has determined, in writing pursuant to section 5-1.30 of this Subpart, must install
filtration. These requirements only apply until filtration is installed.

 State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation or
 2

the contaminant may present a risk to public health.




                                                                                       Page 91
Table 10A. Turbidity Minimum Monitoring Requirements1

                                                                                                       Source type
 Contaminant           Type of water system
                                                                Groundwater                                         Surface water1
 Filtered water     Community and                        Not applicable                        Continuous monitoring for composite filter effluent
 turbidity          Noncommunity                                                               and individual filters.2,3,4,5
 Raw water          Unfiltered surface:                  Not applicable                        Every four hours or continuous monitoring. 5
 turbidity          Community and
                    Noncommunity
 Distribution       Community                            State discretion 6                    Five distribution samples each week unless otherwise
 point turbidity                                                                               determined by the State. No two samples may be
                                                                                               obtained on the same day and no two samples are to be
                                                                                               collected from the same distribution point during the
                                                                                               same week.

                    Noncommunity                         State discretion 6                    State discretion 6
 1
  Surface water sources or groundwater sources directly influenced by surface water.
 2
  Effective January 1, 2002 systems serving 10,000 or more people must record the results of individual filter monitoring every fifteen minutes, and combined
 filter effluent every four hours. Effective January 14, 2005 systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons must record the results of individual filter monitoring
 every fifteen minutes, and combined filter effluent every four hours. Until January 14, 2005, systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons must continuously
 monitor the composite filter effluent turbidity, or record the turbidity every four hours. The state may allow systems with two filters to monitor the combined
 filter effluent continuously (recording every 15 minutes) in lieu of monitoring individual filter turbidity. Results of individual filter monitoring must be
 maintained for at least three years.

 If there is a failure in the continuous turbidity monitoring equipment, the system must conduct grab sampling every four hours instead of continuous
 3

 monitoring, but for no more than five working days following the failure of the equipment.
 4
  For systems using slow sand filtration or filtration treatment, other than conventional treatment, direct filtration or D.E. filtration, the State may reduce
 sampling frequency to once per day if it determines that less frequent monitoring is sufficient to indicate effective filtration performance.
 5
  If a system uses continuous monitoring, it must use the turbidity values recorded every four hours to determine if a treatment technique violation occurs,
 unless the State has approved in writing a different time interval.
 6
  State discretion shall mean requiring monitoring when the State has reason to believe the MCL has been violated, the potential exists for an MCL violation
 or the contaminant may present a risk to public health.




                                                                                   Page 92
Table 11 Microbiological Minimum Monitoring Requirements (Refer to Table 11B following any positive samples) 1,2,3,4

                                                                                    Number of Routine Samples Based on Population

                                                                               Minimum Number of                                   Minimum Number of Samples
    Contaminant            Type of Water System        Population Served       Samples per Month4         Population Served               per Month4

Total coliform in      Community                             Up to 1,0006,7              1                   59,001 to 70,000                  70
distribution system5                                        1,001 to 2,500               2                   70,001 to 83,000                  80
                                                            2,501 to 3,300               3                   83,001 to 96,000                  90
                                                            3,301 to 4,100               4                  96,001 to 130,000                 100
                                                            4,101 to 4,900               5                  130,001 to 220,000                120
                                                            4,901 to 5,800               6                  220,001 to 320,000                150
                                                            5,801 to 6,700               7                  320,001 to 450,000                180
                                                            6,701 to 7,600               8                  450,001 to 600,000                210
                                                            7,601 to 8,500               9                  600,001 to 780,000                240
                                                            8,501 to 12,900             10                  780,001 to 970,000                270
                                                           12,901 to 17,200             15                 970,001 to 1,230,000               300
                                                           17,201 to 21,500             20                1,230,001 to 1,520,000              330
                                                           21,501 to 25,000             25                1,520,001 to 1,850,000              360
                                                           25,001 to 33,000             30                1,850,001 to 2,270,000              390
                                                           33,001 to 41,000             40                2,270,001 to 3,020,000              420
                                                           41,001 to 50,000             50                3,020,001 to 3,960,000              450
Total coliform in                                          50,001 to 59,000             60                  3,960,001 or more                 480
distribution system5
                       Noncommunity using surface All                         Same as community
                       water or groundwater directly
                       influenced by surface water
                       Noncommunity using only       ≤1,000                   Quarterly8,9
                       groundwater not directly      >1,000                   Same as community
                       influenced by surface water9
                       Seasonal                      All                      Monthly9
Escherichia coli (E.   Community and                 All                      Any routine or repeat
coli)                  Noncommunity                                           samples that are Coliform
                                                                              positive must be analyzed
                                                                              for E. coli.4,10
Fecal Indicator in All ground water systems unless   All                      State discretion11
Raw Source Water10 providing 4-log virus treatment
                       and process compliance
                       monitoring



                                                                               Page 93
                                                                         Table 11 (cont.)
1
 Public water supply systems must collect total coliform samples at sites that are representative of water throughout the distribution system and
throughout the reporting period, in accordance with a written monitoring plan which is subject to State review and revision as described in section 5-
1.51(c) of this Subpart. A public water system that uses only groundwater and serves 4,900 or fewer people may collect all required samples on a single
day if they are taken from different sites.
2
 Public water systems using surface water or groundwater directly influenced by surface water, and which do not provide filtration, must collect and
analyze at least one sample for total coliforms near the first service connection each day the turbidity level of the raw water exceeds 1.49 NTU. This
sample shall be collected within 24 hours. Results of this sample must be included in determining compliance with the MCLs and TTTs in Table 6 of this
section.
3
 Samples taken to determine disinfection practices after pipe repair, replacement, or similar activity are not to be used for determining compliance with
the MCLs or TTTs in Table 6 of this section.
4
 See Table 11B for repeat sampling requirements following any total coliform or E. Coli positive samples.
5
 If chlorine or chloramines are used as the disinfectant, a chlorine residual determination shall be made at the same time and location that the sample is
collected for total coliform analysis. Monitoring for heterotrophic bacteria may be substituted for free chlorine residuals. The State may allow a public
water system that uses both: (1) a surface water source, or a ground water source under direct influence of surface water, and (2) a ground water source,
to take disinfectant residual samples at points other than the total coliform sampling points if the State determines that such points are more
representative of treated (disinfected) water quality within the distribution system. A heterotrophic plate count result equal to or less than 500 colonies
per milliliter is considered to be equivalent to a measurable free chlorine residual.
6
 The State may, in writing, reduce the monitoring frequency to quarterly for a community water system serving 1,000 or fewer persons and using ground
water only if the system is in compliance with 10 NYCRR Subpart 5-4; has a clean compliance history for a minimum of 12-months; is free of sanitary
defects; and has a protected water source. The system must meet at least one of the following criteria: an annual site visit by the State or State-approved
party that is equivalent to a Level 2 assessment and correction of all identified sanitary defects; cross connection control, as approved by the State;
continuous disinfection entering the distribution system and a residual in the distribution system in accordance with criteria specified by the State; or
demonstration of maintenance of at least a 4-log removal or inactivation of viruses. Systems that have been granted a disinfection waiver are not eligible
for reduced monitoring frequency.
7
 A community water system on quarterly monitoring must begin monthly monitoring if it meets any of the following conditions: a Level 2 assessment is
triggered; two Level 1 assessments in a rolling 12-month period are triggered; an E. coli MCL violation; a coliform TTV; or two total coliform
monitoring violations in a rolling 12-month period. Monthly monitoring must begin in the month following the event.
8
 A noncommunity water system on quarterly monitoring must begin monthly monitoring if it meets any of the following conditions: a Level 2 assessment
is triggered; two Level 1 assessments in a rolling 12-month period are triggered; an E. coli MCL violation; a coliform TTV; two total coliform
monitoring violations; or one total coliform monitoring violation and one Level 1 assessment in a rolling 12-month period. Monthly monitoring must
begin in the month following the event.
9
 A noncommunity water system may return to quarterly monitoring if they meet the following criteria: within the last 12 months, the system must have a
completed sanitary survey or Level 2 assessment, be free of sanitary defects, have a protected water source; and the system must have a clean compliance
history for a minimum of 12 months.
10
     Fecal indicators include E. coli, enterococci, and coliphage. Only E. coli testing will be required, unless otherwise directed by the State.
 State discretion shall mean that monitoring is required when the State has reason to believe the MCL or TT has been violated, the potential exists for an
11

MCL violation or TTV; or the contaminant may present a risk to public health.


                                                                                      Page 94
Table 11A. Microbiological/Filtration Avoidance Criteria
Minimum Monitoring Requirements1

                                                                                               Minimum number of
Contaminant2                 Type of water system Population served                            samples per week3,4
Raw water fecal or           Community and        Up to 500                                    1
total coliform               Noncommunity         501 to 3,300                                 2
                                                  3,301 to 10,000                              3
                                                  10,001 to 25,000                             4
                                                  25,001 or more                               5
1
  The monitoring requirement applies to surface water sources and groundwater sources directly influenced by surface
water.
2
  Either fecal or total coliform density measurements are acceptable. If both analyses are performed, the fecal coliform
results will take precedence.
3
  Monitoring sampling must be performed on separate days.
4
  Samples must be taken and analyzed every day the system serves water to the public and the turbidity of the raw water
exceeds 1.49 NTU. The samples count toward the weekly sampling requirement.




                                                                                Page 95
      Table 11B Repeat Microbiological Sampling Requirements Following Total Coliform Positive and/or Fecal Indicator Positive Sample(s)1

                                                                    Number of Repeat                                                   Required Action for
Type of Positive          Type of Water                             Samples Required                                                     Positive Repeat
   Sample                 System/Source           System Size      Within 24 Hours of             Sampling Location                         Samples
                                                                       Notification
Routine total      Surface water, GWUDI, or     More than one      Three distribution The same sampling site where the original       Distribution sampling
coliform sample(s) ground water performing 4-   service            system samples     coliform-positive sample was collected,         must be repeated until
from distribution log virus treatment and       connection                            one sample within five service connections      total coliform is not
system             process compliance                                                 upstream, one sample within five service        detected in repeat
                   monitoring                                                         connections downstream in accordance            samples, or it is
                                                                                      with a state approved sampling plan.            determined that a
                                                                                                                                      treatment technique has
                                                One service        One distribution      Original sampling location                   been triggered or an
                                                connection         system sample4                                                     MCL has been
                                                                                                                                      violated.2, 3

                   Ground water system or       Population         Three distribution    The same distribution system sampling site Distribution sampling
                   ground water source not      >1,000             system samples and    where the original coliform-positive       must be repeated until
                   providing (or not                               one source water      sample was collected, one sample within total coliform is not
                   documenting) 4-log virus                        sample from each      five service connections upstream, one     detected in repeat
                   treatment5                                      source collected in   sample within five service connections     samples, or it is
                                                                   accordance with a     downstream. An additional sample must be determined that a
                                                                   State-approved        collected from each raw water source or    treatment technique has
                                                                   sampling plan6        according to State approved sampling       been triggered or an
                                                                                         plan.6, 7                                  MCL has been
                                                                                                                                    violated.2, 3

                                                Population         Three distribution    The same distribution system sampling site
                                                ≤1,000 and more    system samples and    where the original coliform-positive
                                                than one service   one source water      sample was collected, one sample within
                                                connection         sample from each      five service connections upstream, and one
                                                                   source collected in   sample within five service connections
                                                                   accordance with a     downstream. An additional sample must be
                                                                   State-approved        collected from each raw water source or
                                                                   sampling plan. 5, 8   according to State approved sampling
                                                                                         plan.6, 7, 8


                                                                         Page 96
          Table 11B Repeat Microbiological Sampling Requirements Following Total Coliform Positive and/or Fecal Indicator Positive Sample(s)1

                                                                               Number of Repeat                                                         Required Action for
    Type of Positive           Type of Water                                   Samples Required                                                           Positive Repeat
       Sample                  System/Source                 System Size      Within 24 Hours of                   Sampling Location                         Samples
                                                                                  Notification
    Routine total      Ground water system or            One service          One distribution        Original sampling location. An additional        Distribution sampling
    coliform sample(s) ground water source not           connection           system sample and       sample must be collected from each raw           must be repeated until
    from distribution providing (or not                                       source water            water source or according to State               total coliform is not
    system             documenting) 4-log virus                               sample(s) in            approved sampling plan.6, 7, 8                   detected in repeat
                       treatment5                                             accordance with a                                                        samples, or it is
                                                                              State-approved                                                           determined that a
                                                                              sampling plan4, 6, 8                                                     treatment technique has
                                                                                                                                                       been triggered or an
                                                                                                                                                       MCL has been
                                                                                                                                                       violated.2, 3

                                                         Wholesale            After notification by Collect one raw water sample at each               As directed by State10
                                                         System of any        consecutive system source or in accordance with a State-
                                                         size                 of total coliform-        approved sampling plan.6, 7, 9
                                                                              positive sample  6, 7, 9,
                                                                              11


    Source water         Ground water system or       All                     Five raw water        Fecal indicator sampling from source or       As directed by State10, 11
    sample(s) fecal      ground water source not                              samples for fecal     sources with initial fecal indicator positive
    indicator positive7, providing or not documenting                         indicator or          samples6, 7
    10
                         4-log virus treatment                                immediate corrective
                                                                              action as directed by
                                                                              State6, 9, 11



After any total coliform positive sample from the distribution system, the system must collect repeat samples on the same day and within 24 hours of being notified.
1

2
 The month following a total coliform positive sample, systems collecting samples quarterly must collect a minimum of three routine distribution system samples. The State
may waive, in writing, the requirement to collect three routine samples the following month the system provides water to the public, if the State carries out an onsite visit
before the end of the following month and the State determines why the sample was total coliform positive and establishes that the system has corrected the problem. The State
cannot waive the requirement to collect three routine samples solely on the basis that all the repeat samples were total coliform negative. Before the end of the following month
the system serves water to the public, at least one routine sample to determine compliance with the MCLs and TTTs must be collected by the system as required in Table 11.
3
 Results of all routine and repeat microbiological samples not invalidated by the State must be used to determine whether a coliform TTT specified in Table 6 has been
exceeded.

                                                                                     Page 97
                                                                                   Table 11B (cont.)
4
 The State may allow a system with a single service connection to collect the required set of repeat samples over a three-day period or to collect a larger volume repeat
sample(s) in one or two more sample containers of any size, as long as the total volume collect is at least 300 mL. If E. coli is used as the fecal indicator at a ground water
system with a single well, a single sample of two (2) times the minimum sample volume or two (2) bottles of minimum required sample volume may be collected
consecutively from the tap and the third sample collected from the raw water source. This source water sample result must be used to determine compliance with all Table 6
requirements.
5
 If a consecutive system purchasing (or otherwise obtaining) ground water from a wholesale system has a total coliform-positive sample from the distribution system, the
system must notify the wholesale system and collect distribution system repeat samples as specified in Table 11B within 24 hours. The wholesale system must collect raw
source water sample(s) unless the system provides 4-log virus treatment at peak flow before or at the first customer as confirmed through process compliance monitoring.
6
 Sampling plan requirements are given in section 5-1.51 (c) of this Subpart.
7
 Fecal indicators include E. coli, enterococci and coliphage. Sampling for fecal indicators other than E. coli is at State discretion.
81
  A system with a single well or a ground water source serving 1,000 or fewer persons may collect a single raw water sample to serve as both a distribution repeat sample to
replace the upstream location sample and a raw water sample taken following a routine total coliform positive sample, if E. coli is used as the fecal indicator. If this dual-
purpose source water sample is collected, the sample result must be used to determine compliance with all Table 6 requirements.
9
 Wholesale system source water sampling requirements are in addition to distribution system sampling requirements for consecutive systems.
 In the event of a fecal indicator positive sample from the raw source water, the state must be notified immediately and may require immediate corrective action. In no case
10

will notification be later than 24 hours as described in section 5-1.78(d)(4) of this Subpart.
 If a ground water wholesale system does not perform 4-log virus treatment and process compliance monitoring, and has a fecal indicator positive sample from a raw source
11

water, the system must notify any consecutive systems as well as any of its own customers.




                                                                                     Page 98
Table 12. Radiological Minimum Monitoring Requirements

                                                                                 Monitoring Requirement1
                        Type of water
 Contaminant            system                 Initial                        Reduced monitoring2,3
                                                                              One sample every nine years at every entry point when
 Combined Ra-226        Community              Four consecutive
                                                                              monitoring results are below the detection limit.7,8
 and Ra-228, uranium                           quarterly samples at
 and gross alpha                               every entry point before       One sample every six years at every entry point when
 particle activity                             December 31, 2007.4,5,6        monitoring results are at or above the detection limit but
                                                                              below half of the MCL.7,8
                                                                              One sample every three years at every entry point when
                                                                              monitoring results are above half of the MCL but at or below
                                                                              the MCL.7,8

                        Noncommunity           Not applicable
                        Community systems
 Beta particle and                             Quarterly samples for          If the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally
                        designated by the
 photon radioactivity                          beta particle and annual       occurring K-40 beta particle activity at a sampling point has a
                        State as vulnerable9
 from manmade                                  samples for tritium and        running annual average (computed quarterly) less than or
 radionuclides                                 Sr-90, beginning within        equal to 50 pCi/L (screening level), the State may reduce the
                                               one quarter after being        frequency of monitoring at that sampling point to once every
                                               notified by the State.10,11    3 years.14,15

                        Community systems      Quarterly samples for          If the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally
                        designated by the      beta emitters and I-131        occurring K-40 beta particle activity at a sampling point has a
                        State as utilizing     and annual samples for         running annual average (computed quarterly) less than or
                        waters contaminated    tritium and Sr-90,             equal to 15 pCi/L (screening level), the State may reduce the
                        by effluents from      beginning within one           frequency of monitoring at that sampling point to once every
                        nuclear facilities9    quarter after being            3 years.14,15
                                               notified by the
                                               State.10,11,12,13




                                                                    Page 99
                                                                            Table 12 (cont.)
1
  All radiological samples must be collected at every entry point to distribution system (EPTDS).
2
  The State may allow systems to reduce the frequency of monitoring based on initial monitoring or historical results as noted in footnote 4 below.
3
  Systems on a reduced monitoring schedule must perform quarterly sampling if a sample result exceeds the MCL.
4
  The State may allow historical monitoring data collected between June 2000 and December 8, 2003 for systems with;
      (1) only one entry point to the distribution system;
      (2) multiple entry points and having appropriate historical monitoring data for each entry point to the distribution system;
      (3) appropriate historical data for a representative point in the distribution system, provided that the State finds that the historical data satisfactorily demonstrate
      that each entry point to the distribution system is expected to be in compliance based upon the historical data and reasonable assumptions about the variability of
      contaminant levels between entry points.
5
  The State may waive the final two quarters of initial monitoring for a sampling point if the results of the samples from the previous two quarters are below the
detection limit.
6
  If the average of the initial monitoring results for a sampling point is above the MCL, the system must collect and analyze quarterly samples at the sampling point
until the system has results from four consecutive quarters that are at or below the MCL.
7
  A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be substituted for the required radium-226 measurement provided that the measured gross alpha particle activity
does not exceed 5 pCi/l. A gross alpha particle activity measurement may be substituted for the required uranium measurement provided that the measured gross
alpha particle activity does not exceed 15 pCi/l. The gross alpha measurement shall have a confidence interval of 95 % (1.65σ, where σ is the standard deviation of
the net counting rate of the sample) for radium-226 and uranium. When a system uses a gross alpha particle activity measurement in lieu of a radium-226 and/or
uranium measurement, the gross alpha particle activity analytical result will be used to determine the future monitoring frequency for radium-226 and/or uranium. If
the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection, ½ the detection limit can be used to substitute to radium-226 and determine compliance for future
monitoring frequency.
8
  Radium-228 measurement can not be substituted by the gross alpha particle activity result.
9
  For systems in the vicinity of a nuclear facility, the State may allow the CWS to utilize environmental surveillance data collected by the nuclear facility in lieu of
monitoring the systems entry point(s), where the State determines that such data is applicable.
10
   Systems already designated by the State must continue to sample until the State reviews and either reaffirms or removes the designation.
11
   Quarterly monitoring for gross beta particle activity shall be based on the analysis of monthly samples or the analysis of a composite of three monthly samples
12
   Annual monitoring for Sr-90 and tritium shall be conducted by means of the analysis of a composite of four consecutive quarterly samples or analysis of four
quarterly samples.
13
   For iodine-131, a composite of five consecutive daily samples shall be analyzed once each quarter. As ordered by the State, more frequent monitoring shall be
conducted when iodine-131 is identified in the finished water.
14
   Systems must collect all samples for beta emitters, tritium and strontium-90 during the reduced monitoring period.
15
   A system that exceeds the gross beta particle activity minus the naturally occurring potassium-40 beta particle screening level (50 pCi/L for vulnerable systems or
15 pCi/L for systems utilizing waters contaminated by effluents from nuclear facilities), must further analyze the sample for the major radioactive constituents. The
potassium-40 beta particle activity must be calculated by multiplying elemental potassium concentrations in mg/L by a factor of 0.82




                                                                                    Page 100
Table 13 - REQUIRED NOTIFICATIONS
                                                            Single sample                              Failure to meet monitoring
Contaminant/Situation                                       exceeds              MCL/MRDL/TT1          requirements and/or failure to use
(Subpart 5-1 citations)                                     MCL/MRDL1            violation             applicable testing procedure
Public Health Hazard (Section 5-1.1(bz))2                   Not applicable       State                 State
                                                                                 Tier 1                Tier 1
Escherichia coli (E. coli) in distribution system           State3               State                 State
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 6, 11 and 11B)                      Not applicable, or   Tier 1                Tier 3, or Tier 15
                                                            Tier 14
E. coli or other fecal indicator detected in ground water   Tier 12,3,5,6        Tier 16               State
source at system not providing both 4-log virus                                                        Tier 3, or Tier 12,5,7
treatment and process compliance monitoring (Section
5-1.52, Tables 6, 11 and 11B)
Total coliform in distribution system                       Not applicable       State8                State
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 6, 11 and 11B)                                           Tier 2, or Tier 19    Tier 3, or Tier 2 as directed by State
Entry Point Turbidity                                       State10              State                 State
monthly average (Section 5-1.52, Tables 4 and 10)                                Tier 2                Tier 3
Entry Point Turbidity                                       State                State                 State
two-day average                                                                  Tier 2, or Tier 111   Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 4 and 10)
Raw Water Turbidity                                         State                State                 State
(Subdivision 5-1.30(d) and Section 5-1.52, Table 10A)                            Tier 2, or Tier 111   Tier 3
Filtered Water Turbidity                                    State                State                 State
Single exceedance of the maximum                                                 Tier 2, or Tier 111   Tier 3
allowable Turbidity level
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 4A and 10A)
Filtered Water Turbidity                                    Not applicable       State                 State
Treatment Technique violation                                                    Tier 2                Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 4A and 10A)




                                                                      Page 101
                                                             Table 13 (cont.)
                                                         Single sample                                Failure to meet monitoring
Contaminant/Situation                                    exceeds              MCL/MRDL/TT1            requirements and/or failure to use
(Subpart 5-1 citations)                                  MCL/MRDL      1      violation               applicable testing procedure
Distribution Point Turbidity                             Not applicable       State                   State
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 5, 10 and 10A)                                        Tier 2                  Tier 3
Treatment Technique violations                           Not applicable       State                   State
other than turbidity12,13 (Sections 5-1.12, 5-1.30, 5-                        Tier 2, or Tier 12,13   Tier 313, or Tier 212
1.32, 5-1.81, and 5-1.83 and Subdivision 5-1.71(d))
Free chlorine residual less than                         Not applicable        State                  Not applicable
0.2 mg/L at the entry point14
(Subdivision 5-1.30(d))
Free chlorine residual less than required minimum for    Not applicable        State                  Tier 2
a ground water system or ground water source required                          Tier 2, or Tier 19
to provide 4-log virus treatment15 (Subdivision 5-
1.30(a))
Inorganic chemicals and physical                         State                 State                  State
characteristics listed in Tables 8A and 8B                                     Tier 2                 Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 1, 8A, and 8B)
Chloride, iron, manganese, silver,                       Not applicable        State                  State
sulfate, and zinc                                                              Tier 3                 Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 1 and 8D)
Sodium                                                   State                 Tier 2                 Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 1 and 8D)                        if the level          if the level
                                                         exceeds 20 mg/L       exceeds 270 mg/L
Nitrate, Nitrite, Total Nitrate and Nitrite              State                 State                  State
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 2 and 8C)                                              Tier 1                 Tier 1, or Tier 316
Lead and Copper                                          Not applicable        State                  State
(Sections 5-1.40 to 1.48)                                                      Tier 2                 Tier
Organic Chemicals                                        State                 State                  State
Group 1 and 2 (Section 5-1.52, Table 9C)                                       Tier 2                 Tier 3




                                                                  Page 102
                                              Table 13 (cont.)
                                          Single sample                       Failure to meet monitoring
Contaminant/Situation                     exceeds              MCL/MRDL/TT1   requirements and/or failure to use
(Subpart 5-1 citations)                   MCL/MRDL1            violation      applicable testing procedure
Principal Organic Contaminants            State                State          State
Unspecified Organic Contaminants                               Tier 2         Tier 3
Total POCs and UOCs
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 3, 9B and 9D)
Radiological Contaminants                 State              State            State
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 7 and 12)                            Tier 2           Tier 3
Monitoring and Control of                 Not applicable     State            State
Disinfection Byproduct Precursors                            Tier 2           Tier 3
(Sections 5-1.60 to 5-1.64)
Disinfectant residuals Chlorine and       State              State            State
Chloramine                                                   Tier 2           Tier 3
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 3A and 15A)
Disinfectant residual                     State              State            State
Chlorine dioxide                                             Tier 2           Tier 3, or Tier 217
at entry point
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 3A, 15 and 15A)
Disinfectant residual                     State              State            State
Chlorine dioxide                                             Tier 118         Tier 118
in distribution system
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 3A, 15 and 15A)
Disinfection byproducts                   Not applicable     State            State
Trihalomethanes                                              Tier 2           Tier 3
Haloacetic acids
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 3 and 9A)
and Bromate and Chlorite
(Section 5-1.52, Tables 1 and 8B)




                                                  Page 103
                                                                        Table 13 (cont.)
                                                                        Single sample              MCL/MRDL/TT1                 Failure to meet monitoring
Contaminant/Situation
                                                                        exceeds                    violation                    requirements and/or failure to use
(Subpart 5-1 citations)
                                                                        MCL/MRDL1                                               applicable testing procedure
Acrylamide and Epichlorohydrin                                          Not applicable             State                        Not applicable
(Subdivision 5-1.51(m))                                                                            Tier 2
Operation under a variance                                              Not applicable             Tier 3                       Not applicable
or exemption (Sections 5-1.90 to 5-1.96)
Violation of conditions of a variance                                   Not applicable             State                        Not applicable
or exemption (Sections 5-1.90 to 5-1.96)                                                           Tier 2
Disruption of water service of four                                     Not applicable             State19                      Not applicable
hours or more
(Subdivision 5-1.23(b))
1
    MCL-maximum contaminant level, MRDL-maximum residual disinfectant level, TT-treatment technique
2
 Community systems must describe in their annual water supply statement (see section 5-1.72(e) and (f)) any Public Health Hazard that is determined to be a violation,
and any uncorrected significant deficiency, and must indicate whether corrective action has been completed. This notice must be repeated every year until the annual
report documents that corrective action has been completed in accordance with section 5-1.22 of this Subpart.
3
    State notification must be made by the supplier of water within 24 hours of learning of an E. coli positive sample.
4
 Public notification normally does not have to be issued for an E. coli positive sample prior to the results of the repeat samples. However, there may be situations where
the State determines that a Tier 1 notification is necessary to protect the public health. The supplier of water must provide the Tier 1 notification no later than 24 hours
after learning of the State's determination.
5
 Failure to test for E. coli requires a Tier 1 notification if testing is not performed after any repeat sample tests positive for coliform. All other E. coli monitoring and
testing procedure violations require Tier 3 notification.
6
 At a ground water system, Tier 1 notification is required after initial detection of E. coli or other fecal indicator in raw source water, if the system does not provide 4-
log virus treatment and process compliance monitoring. Confirmation of E. coli or other fecal indicator in the source water requires Tier 1 notification. Failure to take
confirmatory samples may be a public health hazard requiring Tier 1 notification.
7
 Notice of the fecal indicator positive raw water sample must be made in the annual water supply statement (see section 5-1.72(e)), until the annual report documents
that corrective action has been completed.
8
    State notification must be made by the supplier of water within 24 hours of learning of the violation.


                                                                                   Page 104
                                                                                Table 13 (cont)
9
 Tier 2 notification is normally required; however, there may be situations where the State determines that a Tier 1 notification is necessary to protect the public health.
The supplier of water must provide the Tier 1 notification no later than 24 hours after learning of the State's determination.

 If the daily entry point analysis exceeds one NTU, a repeat sample must be taken as soon as practicable, and preferably within one hour. If the repeat sample exceeds
10

one NTU, the supplier of water must make state notification.
11
  Systems must consult with the State within 24 hours after learning of the violation. Based on this consultation, the State may subsequently decide to elevate the
violation from a Tier 2 to a Tier 1 notification. If consultation does not take place within the 24-hour period, the water system must distribute a Tier 1 notification no
later than 48 hours after the system learns of the violation.
12
  These violations include the following: failure to comply with the treatment technique or monitoring requirements in section 5-1.30(a), (b), (c), and (g) of this
Subpart; failure to comply with the avoidance criteria in section 5-1.30(c) of this Subpart; failure to cover a finished water storage facility or treat its discharge required
in section 5-1.32 of this Subpart; failure to report to the state information required in section 5-1.72(c)(3) of this Subpart; failure to maintain records required in section
5-1.72(d)(7) of this Subpart; and failure to meet the treatment and bin classification requirements associated with Cryptosporidium in section 5-1.83 of this Subpart.
Failure to collect three or more samples for Cryptosporidium analysis as required in section 5-1.81 of this Subpart is a Tier 2 violation requiring public notification.
Failure to perform any other monitoring and testing procedure as required in section 5-1.81 of this Subpart is a Tier 3 violation.
13
  Any significant deficiency that is not corrected, or where correction has not begun according to a State-approved corrective action plan within 120 days, or as
directed by the State, is a TTV and must be addressed in accordance with section 5-1.12. If the deficiency is a public health hazard, the deficiency must be addressed
as directed by the State and Tier 1 notification is required.

 Applies to systems that have surface water or groundwater directly influenced by surface water as a source and use chlorine. The system must make State notification
14

whether the residual was restored to at least 0.2 mg/L within four hours.
15
    Required minimum chlorine residual at point that demonstrates adequate CT for disinfected water from ground water sources at first customer.
16
  Failure to take a confirmation sample within 24 hours for nitrate or nitrite after an initial sample exceeds the MCL requires a Tier 1 notification. Other monitoring
violations for nitrate or nitrite require a Tier 3 notification.
17
  Failure to monitor for chlorine dioxide at the entrance to the distribution system the day after exceeding the MRDL at the entrance to the distribution system requires
a Tier 2 notification. Other monitoring violations for chlorine dioxide at the entrance to the distribution system require a Tier 3 notification.
18
  If any daily sample taken at the entrance to the distribution system exceeds the MRDL for chlorine dioxide and one or more samples taken in the distribution system
the next day exceed the MRDL, Tier 1 notification is required. Failure to take the required samples in the distribution system the day after the MRDL is exceeded at the
entry point also triggers Tier 1 notification.
19
    Tier 1 notification is required if the situation meets the definition of a public health hazard.




                                                                                      Page 105
Table 14A
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 0.5 Degrees Celsius or Lower1

       Free
                                                                                       pH
     chlorine
     residual
                        <6.0                   6.5                  7.0                 7.5                   8.0                  8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4              137                  163                   195                 237                  277                   329                 390
        0.6              141                  168                   200                 239                  286                   342                 407
        0.8              145                  172                   205                 246                  295                   354                 422
        1.0              148                  176                   210                 253                  304                   365                 437
        1.2              152                  180                   215                 259                  313                   376                 451
        1.4              155                  184                   221                 266                  321                   387                 464
        1.6              157                  189                   226                 273                  329                   397                 477
        1.8              162                  193                   231                 279                  338                   407                 489
        2.0              165                  197                   236                 286                  346                   417                 500
        2.2              169                  201                   242                 297                  353                   426                 511
        2.4              172                  205                   247                 298                  361                   435                 522
        2.6              175                  209                   252                 304                  368                   444                 533
        2.8              178                  213                   257                 310                  375                   452                 543
        3.0              181                  217                   261                 316                  382                   460                 552
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                    Page 106
Table 14B
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 5.0 Degrees Celsius1

       Free
                                                                                        pH
     chlorine
     residual
                         <6.0                  6.5                  7.0                 7.5                  8.0                  8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4                97                  117                 139                  166                 198                   236                 279
        0.6               100                  120                 143                  171                 204                   244                 291
        0.8               103                  122                 146                  175                 210                   252                 301
        1.0               105                  125                 149                  179                 216                   260                 312
        1.2               107                  127                 152                  183                 221                   267                 320
        1.4               109                  130                 155                  187                 227                   274                 329
        1.6               111                  132                 158                  192                 232                   281                 337
        1.8               114                  135                 162                  196                 238                   287                 345
        2.0               116                  138                 165                  200                 243                   294                 353
        2.2               118                  140                 169                  204                 248                   300                 361
        2.4               120                  143                 172                  209                 253                   306                 368
        2.6               122                  146                 175                  213                 258                   312                 375
        2.8               124                  148                 178                  217                 263                   318                 382
        3.0               126                  151                 182                  221                 268                   324                 389
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                   Page 107
Table 14C
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 10.0 Degrees Celsius1

       Free
                                                                                       pH
     chlorine
     residual
                       <6.0                  6.5                  7.0                  7.5                  8.0                   8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4              73                   88                  104                  125                  149                  177                  209
        0.6              75                   90                  107                  128                  153                  183                  218
        0.8              78                   92                  110                  131                  158                  189                  226
        1.0              79                   94                  112                  134                  162                  195                  234
        1.2              80                   95                  114                  137                  166                  200                  240
        1.4              82                   98                  116                  140                  170                  206                  247
        1.6              83                   99                  119                  144                  174                  211                  253
        1.8              86                  101                  122                  147                  179                  215                  259
        2.0              87                  104                  124                  150                  182                  221                  265
        2.2              89                  105                  127                  153                  186                  225                  271
        2.4              90                  107                  129                  157                  190                  230                  276
        2.6              92                  110                  131                  160                  194                  234                  281
        2.8              93                  111                  134                  163                  197                  239                  287
        3.0              95                  113                  137                  166                  201                  243                  292
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                   Page 108
Table 14D
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 15.0 Degrees Celsius1

       Free
                                                                                       pH
     chlorine
     residual
                       <6.0                  6.5                  7.0                  7.5                   8.0                  8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4              49                   59                   70                   83                   99                  118                  140
        0.6              50                   60                   72                   86                  102                  122                  146
        0.8              52                   61                   73                   88                  105                  126                  151
        1.0              53                   63                   75                   90                  108                  130                  156
        1.2              54                   64                   76                   92                  111                  134                  160
        1.4              55                   65                   78                   94                  114                  137                  165
        1.6              56                   66                   79                   96                  116                  141                  169
        1.8              57                   68                   81                   98                  119                  144                  173
        2.0              58                   69                   83                  100                  122                  147                  177
        2.2              59                   70                   85                  102                  124                  150                  181
        2.4              60                   72                   86                  105                  127                  153                  184
        2.6              61                   73                   88                  107                  129                  156                  188
        2.8              62                   74                   89                  109                  132                  159                  191
        3.0              63                   76                   91                  111                  134                  162                  195
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                    Page 109
Table 14E
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 20.0 Degrees Celsius1

       Free
                                                                                       pH
     chlorine
     residual
                       <6.0                  6.5                  7.0                  7.5                   8.0                  8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4              36                   44                   52                   62                   74                   89                  105
        0.6              38                   45                   54                   64                   77                   92                  109
        0.8              39                   46                   55                   66                   79                   95                  113
        1.0              39                   47                   56                   67                   81                   98                  117
        1.2              40                   48                   57                   69                   83                  100                  120
        1.4              41                   49                   58                   70                   85                  103                  123
        1.6              42                   50                   59                   72                   87                  105                  126
        1.8              43                   51                   61                   74                   89                  108                  129
        2.0              44                   52                   62                   75                   91                  110                  132
        2.2              44                   53                   63                   77                   93                  113                  135
        2.4              45                   54                   65                   78                   95                  115                  138
        2.6              46                   55                   66                   80                   97                  117                  141
        2.8              47                   56                   67                   81                   99                  119                  143
        3.0              47                   57                   68                   83                  101                  122                  146
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                   Page 110
Table 14F
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts
by Free Chlorine at 25.0 Degrees Celsius and Higher1

       Free
                                                                                        pH
     chlorine
     residual
                         <6.0                  6.5                  7.0                  7.5                 8.0                  8.5                 <9.0
      (mg/L)
       <0.4                24                  29                   35                   42                   50                  59                   70
        0.6                25                  30                   36                   43                   51                  61                   73
        0.8                26                  31                   37                   44                   53                  63                   75
        1.0                26                  31                   37                   45                   54                  65                   78
        1.2                27                  32                   38                   46                   55                  67                   80
        1.4                27                  33                   39                   47                   57                  69                   82
        1.6                28                  33                   40                   48                   58                  70                   84
        1.8                29                  34                   41                   49                   60                  72                   86
        2.0                29                  35                   41                   50                   61                  74                   88
        2.2                30                  35                   42                   51                   62                  75                   90
        2.4                30                  36                   43                   52                   63                  77                   92
        2.6                31                  37                   44                   53                   65                  78                   94
        2.8                31                  37                   45                   54                   66                  80                   96
        3.0                32                  38                   46                   55                   67                  81                   97
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. CT values between the indicated temperatures of different tables may be determined by linear interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the
 CT99.9 value at the lower temperature, and at the higher pH.




                                                                                   Page 111
Table 14G
CT Values (CT99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Chlorine Dioxide and Ozone1,2

                                                                                   Degrees Celsuis
                                  <1                      5                     10                 15                          20                   >25
 Chlorine dioxide                 63                     26                     23                 19                          15                    11
 Ozone                            2.9                    1.9                    1.4              0.95                         0.72                  0.48
 1
  These CT values achieve greater than a 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated pH values may be determined by linear
 interpolation. If no interpolation is used, use the CT 99.9 value at the lower temperature for determining CT 99.9 values between indicated temperatures.
 2
  The use of these alternative disinfectants shall be approved in accordance with the provisions of section 5-1.22 of this Section.




Table 14H. CT Values (CT 99.9) for 99.9 Percent Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts by Chloramines1

             Water Temperature, in Degrees Celsius

      <1        5           10           15         20           25
     3,800    2,200       1,850         1,500     1,100         750

  1
   These values are for pH values of 6 to 9. These CT values may be assumed to achieve greater than 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses only if chlorine is added and mixed
  in the water prior to the addition of ammonia. If this condition is not met, the system must demonstrate, based on on-site studies or other information, as approved by the
  State, that the system is achieving at least 99.99 percent inactivation of viruses. CT values between the indicated temperatures may be determined by linear interpolation. If
  no interpolation is used, use the CT 99.9 value at the lower temperature for determining CT 99.9 values between indicated temperatures.




                                                                                    Page 112
Table 14I. CT Values (mg·min/L) for Cryptosporidium Inactivation by Chlorine Dioxide1

     Log                                Water Temperature, in Degrees Celsius
     Credit
              <=0.5      1        2         3        5         7       10        15         20   25    30
     0.25     159       153      140      128       107       90       69        45         29   19    12
     0.5      319       305      279      256       214      180       138       89         58   38    24
     1.0      637       610      558      511       429      360       277      179     116      75    49
     1.5      956       915      838      767       643      539       415      268     174      113   73
     2.0      1275     1220     1117      1023      858      719       553      357     232      150   98
     2.5      1594     1525     1396      1278     1072      899       691      447     289      188   122
     3.0      1912     1830     1675      1534     1286     1079       830      536     347      226   147


 1
  Systems may use this equation to determine log credit between the indicated values:
  Log credit = (0.001506 x (1.09116)Temp) x CT.




                                                                                 Page 113
Table 14J. CT Values (mg·min/L) for Cryptosporidium Inactivation by Ozone1

      Log                                 Water Temperature, in Degrees Celsius
     Credit
                <=0.5        1       2        3       5        7       10      15      20    25    30
     0.25         6.0       5.8     5.2     4.8      4.0      3.3     2.5      1.6     1.0   0.6   0.39
      0.5         12        12       10     9.5      7.9      6.5     4.9      3.1     2.0   1.2   0.78
      1.0         24        23       21      19      16       13      9.9      6.2     3.9   2.5   1.6
      1.5         36        35       31      29      24       20       15      9.3     5.9   3.7   2.4
      2.0         48        46       42      38      32       26       20      12      7.8   4.9   3.1
      2.5         60        58       52      48      40       33       25      16      9.8   6.2   3.9
      3.0         72        69       63      57      47       39       30      19      12    7.4   4.7



 Systems may use this equation to determine log credit between the indicated values:
 1

 Log credit = (0.0397 x (1.09757)Temp) x CT.




                                                                                 Page 114
Table 14K. UV Dose Table for Cryptosporidium, Giardia lamblia, and Virus Inactivation Credit1,2,3,4
      Log Credit           Cryptosporidium UV dose                   Giardia lamblia UV dose                    Virus UV dose
                                   (mJ/cm2)                                 (mJ/cm2)                              (mJ/cm2)
         0.5                             1.6                                      1.5                                   39
         1.0                             2.5                                      2.1                                   58
         1.5                             3.9                                      3.0                                   79
         2.0                             5.8                                      5.2                                  100
         2.5                             8.5                                      7.7                                  121
         3.0                              12                                       11                                  143
         3.5                              15                                       15                                  163
         4.0                              22                                       22                                  186
  1
    Ultraviolet light. Systems receive Cryptosporidium, Giardia lamblia, and virus treatment credits for ultraviolet (UV) light reactors by achieving the corresponding
  UV dose values shown in this table. Systems must use validated UV reactors and monitor UV reactors as described in footnotes 3 and 4 of this table to demonstrate
  that they are achieving a particular UV dose value for treatment credit.
  2
   UV dose table. The treatment credits listed in this table are for UV light at a wavelength of 254 nm as produced by a low pressure mercury vapor lamp. To receive
  treatment credit for other lamp types, systems must demonstrate an equivalent germicidal dose through reactor validation testing, as described in footnote 3 of this table.
  The UV dose values in this table are applicable only to unfiltered systems (either by filtration waiver or those that do not require filtration) and to post-filter applications
  of UV in filtered systems.
  3
   Reactor validation testing. Systems must use UV reactors that have undergone validation testing to determine the operating conditions under which the reactor delivers
  the UV dose required in footnote 2 of this table (i.e., validated operating conditions). These operating conditions must include flow rate, UV intensity as measured by a
  UV sensor, and UV lamp status.
           When determining validated operating conditions, systems must account for the following factors: UV absorbance of the water; lamp fouling and aging;
           measurement uncertainty of on-line sensors; UV dose distributions arising from the velocity profiles through the reactor; failure of UV lamps or other critical
           system components; and inlet and outlet piping or channel configurations of the UV reactor.
           Validation testing must include full scale testing of a reactor that conforms uniformly to the UV reactors used by the system and inactivation of a test
           microorganism whose dose response characteristics have been quantified with a low pressure mercury vapor lamp. The State may approve an alternative
           approach to validation testing.
  4
   Reactor monitoring.
            To receive treatment credit for UV light, systems must treat at least 95 percent of the water delivered to the public during each month by UV reactors operating
            within validated conditions for the required UV dose, as described in footnotes 2 and 3 of this table. Systems must demonstrate compliance with this condition
            by monitoring UV intensity as measured by a UV sensor, flow rate, lamp status, and other parameters designated by the State.



                                                                                     Page 115
Table 15 Entry Point Disinfectant Monitoring Frequency for Systems Using Chemical Disinfection1

 Water System Source Type                                Population served              Samples per day4
                                                         Up to 500                      1
                                                         501 - 1,000                    2
 Surface Water or Ground Water under the Direct
                                                         1,001 - 2,500                  3
 Influence of Surface Water (GWUDI)2, 3
                                                         2,501 - 3,300                  4
                                                         > 3,300                        Continuous monitoring required5
 Ground Water System or ground water source              ≤ 3,300                        19
 required to provide 4-log virus treatment and           > 3,300                        Continuous monitoring required5
 process compliance monitoring 6, 7, 8
 Ground Water System or ground water source with         Any                            19
 other than 4-log virus treatment
 1
     See also Table 15A for distribution system disinfectant residual sampling locations and frequency depending on disinfectant used.
 2
  If at any time chlorine residual concentration falls below 0.2 mg/L at the entry point for a surface water or GWUDI system, the system must
 collect and analyze a grab sample every four hours until the chlorine residual concentration is again equal to or greater than 0.2 mg/L.
 3
     Entry point samples collected at Surface Water or GWUDI systems
 4
     The day's grab samples may not be conducted at the same time.
 5
  If there is a failure in the continuous monitoring equipment, grab samples, every four hours, may be conducted in lieu of continuous monitoring,
 but for no more than five working days (fourteen working days for ground water systems) following the failure of the equipment.
 6
  If at any time the disinfectant concentration at a ground water system falls below the minimum required in the process compliance monitoring
 plan approved by the State, the system must collect and analyze a grab sample every four hours until the disinfectant residual concentration is
 again at or above minimum required levels, without exceeding other applicable concentration requirements in Table 3A.
 7
  Any ground water system required to provide 4-log virus treatment because of fecal contamination of the source or because of significant
 deficiencies in system operation, and using chemical disinfection, must demonstrate minimum disinfectant residual at a location that demonstrates
 adequate concentration to provide the required treatment at the first customer during peak flow according to the sampling plan developed for the
 system. These samples to confirm the minimum disinfection residual are to be collected at the frequency in this table.
 8
     Lowest daily concentration must be recorded on operation report.
 9
     A minimum of one disinfectant residual concentration must be recorded on operation report every day.




                                                                         Page 116
            Table 15A Disinfectant Residual Minimum Distribution System Monitoring Requirements for Systems Using
            Chemical Disinfection

     Disinfectant                   Type of Water System                                  Routine Monitoring
Chlorine                       Community and                          Sample at the same time and same points in the distribution
Chloramines                    Nontransient Noncommunity              system as total coliform sampling1
Chlorine Dioxide2              Community, Nontransient                Daily sample at the entrance to the distribution system3
                               Noncommunity and
                               Transient Noncommunity
1
 Community Water Systems using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water may use
heterotrophic plate count results of equal to or less than 500 colonies per milliliter as equivalent to a free chlorine residual
as outlined in table 11, footnote 5, in lieu of taking separate samples for disinfection residuals
2
    Monitoring is required if chlorine dioxide is used for either oxidation or disinfection.
3
 If the Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level (MRDL) of 0.8 mg/L is exceeded, the system must take three samples in the
distribution system on the following day. If chlorine dioxide or chloramines are used to maintain a disinfectant residual in
the distribution system, or if chlorine is used and there are no rechlorination stations, the system must take 3 samples as
close to the first customer as possible, at intervals of at least 6 hours. If chlorine is used and there is a rechlorination station,
the system must take one sample as close to the first customer as possible, one sample representing average residence time,
and one sample representing maximum residence time.




                                                               Page 117
Table 16. Additional Contaminants for which Reporting is Required
Pursuant to 5-1.72 (e)-(h) of this Subpart

                           Contaminant Name
   2,4-dinitrotoluene                 2-methyl-1-phenol
   2,6-dinitrotoluene                 Alachlor ESA
   DCPA monoacid                      1,2-diphenylhydrazine
   DCPA di acid                       Diazinon
   4,4'-DDE                           Disulfoton
   EPTC                               Fonofos
   Molinate                           Terbufos
   MTBE                               Aeromonas Hydrophilia
   Nitrobenzene                       Polonium-210
   Terbacil                           RDX
   Acetochlor                         Algae and toxins
   Perchlorate                        Echoviruses
   Diuron                             Coxsackie viruses
   Linuron                            Helicobacter pylori
   Prometon                           Microsporidia
   2,4,6-trichlorophenol              Caliciviruses
   2,4-dichlorophenol                 Adenoviruses
   2,4-dinitrophenol                  Lead – 210
                                      Napthalene




                                  Page 118
Table 17. Information Collection Rule Contaminant Reporting Requirements

 Contaminant                                                         Reporting Requirements for Finished Water
 Total Trihalomethanes (chloroform, bromodichloromethane,
                                                                     Report as a group if detected
 dibromochloromethane, and bromoform)
 Haleocetic Acids (mono-, di-, and trichloroacetic acid, and mono-
                                                                     Report as a group if detected
 and di-bromoacetic acid)
 Haloacetilenitriles (dichloro-, trichloro-, bromochloro-, and
                                                                     Report as a group if detected
 dibromoacetonitrile)
 Haloketones (1,1-dichloropropanone and 1,1,1-
                                                                     Report as a group if detected
 trichloropropanine)
 Chloropicrin                                                        Reporting required if detected
 Chloral Hydrate                                                     Reporting required if detected
 Total Organic Halides                                               Reporting required if detected
 Disinfectant Residual                                               Reporting required if detected
 Cyanogen Chloride                                                   Report if detected and treatment plant uses Chloramines
                                                                     Report if detected and treatment plant uses Hypochlorite
 Chlorate
                                                                     Solutions
 Bromate, Aldehydes                                                  Report if detected and treatment plant uses Ozone
 Chlorine Dioxide residual, Chlorite, Chlorate, Bromate,
                                                                     Report if detected and treatment plant uses Chlorine Dioxide
 Aldehydes
 Total Coliforms                                                     Report if detected
 Fecal Coliforms or Escherichia coli                                 Report if detected
 Giardia                                                             Report if detected
 Total Culturable Viruses                                            Report if detected




                                                            Page 119
This page is blank




     Page 120
Monitoring and Control of Disinfection Byproducts and Disinfection
Byproduct Precursors
5-1.60 Applicability. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

Surface water systems or systems using ground water under the direct influence of surface
water that are community or nontransient noncommunity water systems, serve 15 or more
service connections or serve 25 or more persons, and use conventional filtration treatment
shall operate with enhanced coagulation to achieve the total organic carbon (TOC) percent
removal levels specified in section 5-1.63 of this Subpart, unless the system meets the
alternative compliance criteria described in section 5-1.62 of this Subpart.

5-1.61 Monitoring requirements for disinfection byproduct precursors. (Effective Date:
January 17, 2018)

Monitoring for Disinfection byproduct precursors shall be in accordance with the following
table.

Monitoring Requirements for Disinfection Byproduct Precursors

                                                                       Routine                        Reduced1
                               Sampling                           Running                                   Frequency
Source         System       Filtration                            annual
                               location at Monitoring
Type            Type        Type                       Frequency2 average
                               each plant requirements
                                                                  TOC
                                                                  results
                               Combined                           <2.0 mg/L                                 1 TOC
                               Filter      TOC4        Monthly    for two                                   (paired) per
                               effluent 3                         consecutive                               plant/quarter
Surface           Conventional                                    years or
                                           TOC4        Monthly
water   Community                                                 <1.0 mg/L
and     and NTNC               Raw                                for one year
GWUDI                                      Alkalinity  Monthly

                            All other                                                       ≤4.0 mg/L       1 TOC
                                              Raw           TOC              Monthly
                            types                                                                           quarterly


 1
   Routine monitoring shall begin in the month following the quarter when the running annual average TOC is ≥2.0
 mg/L for systems using conventional filtration and >4.0 mg/L for systems using all other types of filtration
 2
   TOC monitoring for disinfection precursors for both treated and source water shall be collected at the same
 time. These samples (source water and treated water) are referred to as paired samples
 3
   Samples collected for TOC shall be collected no further downstream than point of combined filter effluent
 turbidity monitoring and representative of treated water.
 4
   Systems shall take one paired TOC sample and one source water alkalinity sample per month per plant at a time
 representative of normal operating conditions and influent water quality. The alkalinity sample shall be collected
 at the same time as the source water TOC sample.




                                                     Page 121
5-1.62 Alternative compliance criteria for enhanced coagulation. (Effective Date: January
17, 2018)
Systems may use one of the following alternative compliance criteria instead of enhanced
coagulation. Systems using the alternative compliance criteria shall still comply with the
monitoring requirements stated in section 5-1.61 of this Subpart.



 Water Type            Parameter                  Concentration        Calculation Frequency
 Source water          TOC                        ≤2.0 mg/L            Quarterly RAA
 Treated water         TOC                        ≤2.0 mg/L            Quarterly RAA
 Source water1,2       SUVA                       ≤2.0 L/mg-m          Quarterly RAA
                2
 Treated water         SUVA                       ≤2.0 L/mg-m          Quarterly RAA
 Source water          TOC                        <4.0 mg/L            Quarterly RAA
                       Alkalinity (as CaCO3)      >60 mg/L             Quarterly RAA
                       TTHM                       ≤0.040 mg/L          LRAA of all sites
                      HAA5                        ≤0.030 mg/L          LRAA of all sites
 Treated water in the TTHM                        ≤0.040 mg/L          LRAA of all sites
 distribution system3 HAA5                        ≤0.030 mg/L          LRAA of all sites

 1
   Prior to any treatment
 2
   Measured monthly
 3
   System uses only chlorine for primary disinfection and maintains a residual in the distribution
 system.



5-1.63 Enhanced coagulation performance requirements. (Effective Date: May 26, 2004)

Systems must achieve the percent reduction of TOC specified in subdivision (a) of this section
(Step 1) between the source water and the combined filter effluent, unless the State approves a
system's request for alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, which are provided
in subdivision (d) of this section.

(a) Required (Step 1) TOC reductions, which are provided in the following table, are based upon
    specified source water TOC and alkalinity levels:




                                             Page 122
  (Step 1) Required Removal of TOC by Enhanced Coagulation for Surface Water Systems or
      Systems Using Ground Water Under the Direct Influence of Surface Water that Use
                             Conventional Filtration Treatment
                                          Source Water Alkalinity
  Source Water         0-60 mg/L as           >60-120 mg/L as           >120 mg/L as
   TOC (mg/L)     CaCO3(percent removal CaCO3(percent removal CaCO3(percent removal
                         required)                 required)              required)
    >2.0 - 4.0             35.0                      25.0                   15.0
    >4.0 - 8.0             45.0                      35.0                   25.0
       >8.0                50.0                      40.0                   30.0

(b) Systems that must comply with the requirements contained in subdivision (a) of this section
    must calculate compliance using the method provided in either paragraph (1) of this
    subdivision or the applicable provisions of paragraph (2) of this subdivision.
       Systems must calculate compliance quarterly, beginning after the system has collected 12
       months of data, by determining an annual average using the following method:
       (i) determine actual monthly TOC percent removal, equal to: (1 - (treated water
           TOC/source water TOC)) X 100;
       (ii) determine the required monthly TOC percent removal from either subdivision (a) or
            (d) of this section;
       (iii)divide the value in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph by the value in subparagraph
            (ii) of this paragraph;
       (iv) add together the results of subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph for the last 12 months
            and divide by 12;
       (v) if the value calculated in subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph is less than 1.00, the
            system is not in compliance with the TOC percent removal requirements.
       Systems may use the provisions in subparagraphs (i) through (iii) of this paragraph
       instead of the calculations in paragraph (1) of this subdivision to determine compliance
       with TOC percent removal requirements.
       (i) In any month that the system's treated or source water TOC level is less than or equal
           to 2.0 mg/L, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.00 (instead of the value
           calculated in paragraph (1) of this subdivision) when calculating compliance under
           the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section.
       (i) In any month that the system's source water SUVA, prior to any treatment, is less than
            or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.00 (instead of
            the value calculated in paragraph (1) of this subdivision) when calculating
            compliance under the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section.
       (ii) In any month that the system's finished water SUVA is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-
            m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.00 (instead of the value calculated in
            paragraph (1) of this subdivision) when calculating compliance under the provisions
            of subdivision (a) of this section.



                                              Page 123
(c) Systems that cannot achieve the (Step 1) TOC removals required by subdivision (a) of this
    section due to water quality parameters or operational constraints must apply to the State,
    within three months of failure to achieve the TOC removals required by (Step 1), for
    approval of alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, described in subdivision
    (d) of this section. Until the State approves the alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2)
    requirements, the system must meet the (Step 1) TOC removals contained in subdivision (a)
    of this section.

(d) Alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements. Applications made to the State by
    enhanced coagulation systems for approval of alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2)
    requirements must include, as a minimum, results of bench- or pilot-scale testing conducted
    using the methodology prescribed in paragraph (1) of this subdivision to determine the
    alternate enhanced coagulation level. Applications for alternate minimum TOC (Step 2)
    requirements must be approved by the State before they can replace the previous (Step 1)
    TOC removal requirements. The alternate TOC removal is determined by the method
    described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this subdivision.
       The alternate minimum TOC removal is the percentage of TOC removed at the point
       where an incremental addition of 10 mg/L of alum, or equivalent amount of iron
       coagulant (ferric salt), results in a TOC removal of <0.3 mg/L. This TOC removal
       percentage is then defined as the minimum TOC removal required for the system. Once
       approved by the State, this minimum TOC removal requirement supersedes the minimum
       TOC (Step 1) removal required by the table in subdivision (a) of this section. This
       requirement will be effective until such time as the State approves a new value based on
       the results of a new bench- and pilot-scale test. Failure to achieve State-set alternative
       minimum TOC removal levels is a violation.
       Bench- or pilot-scale testing of enhanced coagulation must be conducted by using
       representative water samples and adding 10 mg/L increments of alum, or equivalent
       amounts of iron coagulant, until the pH is reduced to a level less than or equal to the
       enhanced coagulation (Step 2) target pH shown in the following table:

                            Enhanced Coagulation Step 2 Target pH
            Alkalinity (mg/L as CaCO3)                         Target pH
                       0 – 60                                     5.5
                      60 – 120                                    6.3
                     120 – 240                                    7.0
                        >240                                      7.5

       For waters with alkalinities of less than 60 mg/L for which addition of small amounts of
       alum or equivalent addition of iron coagulant drives the pH below 5.5 before significant
       TOC removal occurs, the system must add necessary chemicals to maintain the pH
       between 5.3 and 5.7 in samples until the TOC removal of 0.3 mg/L per 10 mg/L alum
       added, or equivalent addition of iron coagulant, is reached.




                                             Page 124
       The system may operate at any coagulant dose or pH necessary (consistent with the State
       Sanitary Code) to achieve the minimum TOC percent removal approved under paragraph
       (1) of this section.
       If the TOC removal is consistently less than 0.3 mg/L of TOC per 10 mg/L of
       incremental alum dose at all dosages of alum (or equivalent addition of iron coagulant),
       the water is deemed to contain TOC not amenable to enhanced coagulation. The system
       may then apply for a waiver of enhanced coagulation requirements.


5-1.64 Operational Evaluation Levels. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) If a system exceeds the operational evaluation level at any monitoring location when the sum
    of the two previous quarters’ TTHM results plus twice the current quarter’s TTHM result,
    divided by 4 to determine the average, exceeds 0.080 mg/L, or when the sum of the two
    previous quarters’ HAA5 results plus twice the current quarter’s HAA5 result, divided by 4
    to determine the average, exceeds 0.060 mg/L.

(b) If a system exceeds the operational evaluation level, it shall conduct an operational
    evaluation and submit a written report of the evaluation to the State no later than 90 days
    after being notified of the analytical result that caused the exceedance of the operational
    evaluation level. The written report shall be made available to the public upon request.

(c) The operational evaluation shall include an examination of the operational practices for
    system treatment(s) and the distribution system, including storage tank operations, excess
    storage capacity, distribution system flushing, changes in sources or source water quality,
    and treatment changes or problems that may contribute to TTHM and HAA5 formation and
    what steps could be considered to minimize future exceedances.
       A system may request, and the State may allow, limiting the scope of the evaluation if the
       system is able to identify the cause of the operational evaluation level exceedance.
       The request to limit the scope of the evaluation does not extend the schedule in
       subdivision (b) of this section for submitting the written report. The State shall approve
       this limited scope of evaluation in writing, and the system shall keep that approval with
       the completed report.


   5-1.65 Best Available Technologies (BATs) for Disinfection Byproduct Control .
   (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

   The following is a table of the best available technology, treatment techniques, or other
   means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for
   Bromate, Chlorite, TTHM and HAA5, for public water systems that disinfect their source
   water.




                                              Page 125
    Water system      Source    Disinfection          Best available technology1
    type              type      byproduct
    All systems       GW; SW;   Bromate               Control of ozone treatment process
    that disinfect    GWUDI                           to reduce production of bromate
    their source                Chlorite              Control of treatment processes to
    water                                             reduce disinfectant demand and
                                                      control of disinfection treatment
                                                      processes to reduce disinfectant
                                                      levels
    All systems       GW; SW;   Total                 Enhanced coagulation or enhanced
    that disinfect    GWUDI     trihalomethanes       softening, plus GAC10; or
    their source                (TTHM);               nanofiltration with a molecular
    water                       Haloacetic acids      weight cutoff ≤1000 Daltons; or
                                (five) (HAA5)         GAC20
    Consecutive       GW; SW;   Total                 Systems serving ≥10,000:
    systems:          GWUDI     trihalomethanes       Improved distribution system and
    applies only to             (TTHM);               storage tank management to
    the disinfected             Haloacetic acids      reduce residence time, plus the use
    water that                  (five) (HAA5)         of chloramines for disinfectant
    consecutive                                       residual maintenance
    systems buy or                                    Systems serving <10,000:
    otherwise                                         Improved distribution system and
    receive                                           storage tank management to
                                                      reduce residence time

1
 Softening that results in removing at least 10 mg/L of magnesium hardness (as CaCO3),
measured monthly and calculated quarterly as a running annual average can be the best
available technology for controlling disinfection byproduct precursors.




                                           Page 126
Operation and Quality Control

5-1.70 Applicability. (Effective Date: November 9, 2011)

Sections 5-1.70 through 5-1.79 of this Subpart shall be applicable to all public water systems,
provided the systems serve 15 or more service connections or serve 25 or more persons.
Subdivisions 5-1.71 (c) and (d), subdivision 5-1.72 (c), and paragraph 5-1.78(a)(4) apply to all
public water systems.


5-1.71 Protection and supervision of public water systems. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water and the person or persons operating a public water system shall
    exercise due care and diligence in the maintenance and supervision of all sources of the
    public water systems to prevent, so far as possible, their pollution and depletion.

(b) The supplier of water and the person or persons operating a water treatment plant or
    distribution system shall exercise due care and diligence in the operation and maintenance of
    these facilities and their appurtenances to ensure continued compliance with the provisions of
    this Subpart. Facilities approved by the State shall be operated in accordance with their
    design unless otherwise authorized under the provisions of sections 5-1.22, 5-1.23 or 5-1.24
    of this Subpart.

(c) If the State notifies the supplier of water that a significant deficiency exists, the supplier of
    water shall consult with the State within 30 days regarding corrective action. Within 120
    days of being notified that a significant deficiency exists (or earlier if the State determines
    that action is necessary to protect public health), the supplier of water shall correct the
    significant deficiency or be in compliance with a corrective action plan to correct the
    deficiency. The corrective action plan must specify appropriate modifications and/or
    improvements to the existing system or facility as may be necessary to fully conform to the
    requirements of this Subpart.

(d) Any significant deficiency that is not corrected or where correction has not begun according
    to a corrective action plan prepared to meet the requirements of this code, within 120 days, or
    as directed by the State, is a treatment technique violation and must be addressed in
    accordance with the requirements in section 5-1.12. If the deficiency is a public health
    hazard, the deficiency must be addressed as directed or approved by the State and Tier 1
    notification is required.

(e) Public water systems shall correct sanitary defects found through a Level 1 or 2 assessment.
    For corrections that have not been completed at the time that the assessment form is
    submitted the system shall complete the corrective action(s) within 120 days of identifying
    the sanitary defect or be in compliance with a timeframe approved by the State in
    consultation with the system. The system shall notify the State when each scheduled
    corrective action is complete.


                                               Page 127
5-1.72 Operation of a public water system. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water and the person or persons in charge of the operation of a public water
    system shall operate and maintain the public water system in such a manner to meet the
    requirements of this Subpart.

(b) The person or persons in charge of operation of a public water system shall be certified
    pursuant to Subpart 5-4 of this Part.

(c) Complete records shall be kept of the operation of a public water system.
       A copy of daily operation records in a format provided or approved by the State shall be
       sent to the State by the 10th calendar day of the next reporting period. These records shall
       include the results of all tests, measurements or analysis required to be made by this
       Subpart or as requested by the State. All operational records shall be available to the State
       either upon request or in conjunction with periodic sanitary surveys conducted by the
       State.
       Systems using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration must conduct
       continuous turbidity monitoring for each individual filter, as described in section 5-1.52
       table 10A. Systems must record the results of individual filter monitoring every 15
       minutes. Systems must maintain individual filter monitoring results for at least three
       years. Systems must report to the State that they have conducted individual filter turbidity
       monitoring within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the
       public. Systems must report to the State individual filter turbidity measurement results
       within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public only if
       measurements demonstrate one or more of the following conditions, except that systems
       serving fewer than 10,000 persons are not required to comply with subparagraph (ii) of
       this paragraph:
       (i) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 1.0
           Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) in two consecutive measurements taken 15
           minutes apart, the system must report the filter identification number, the turbidity
           measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the
           system must either produce a filter profile for the filter within seven days of the
           exceedance (if the system is not able to identify an obvious reason for the abnormal
           filter performance) and submit the profile to the State, or report the obvious reason
           for the exceedance.
       (ii) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 0.5 NTU in
            two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at the end of the first four
            hours of continuous filter operation after the filter has been backwashed or otherwise
            taken offline, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity, and the date(s)
            on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must either produce a filter
            profile for the filter within seven days of the exceedance (if the system is not able to
            identify an obvious reason for the abnormal filter performance) and submit the profile
            to the State, or report the obvious reason for the exceedance.




                                             Page 128
(iii)For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 1.0 NTU in
     two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at any time in each of three
     consecutive months, the system must report to the State the filter number, the
     turbidity measurement, and the dates on which the exceedance occurred. In addition,
     the system must conduct a self-assessment of the filter within 14 days of the
     exceedance and submit the self-assessment to the State. The self-assessment must
     consist of at least the following components: assessment of filter performance;
     development of a filter profile; identification and prioritization of factors limiting
     filter performance; assessment of the applicability of corrections; and preparation of a
     filter self-assessment report.
(iv) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 2.0 NTU in
     two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at any time in each of two
     consecutive months, the system must report to the State the filter number, the
     turbidity measurement, and the dates on which the exceedance occurred. In addition,
     the system must arrange for the conduct of a comprehensive performance evaluation
     (CPE) by the State or a third party approved by the State no later than 30 days
     following the exceedance, and have the evaluation completed and submitted to the
     State no later than 90 days following the exceedance.
Systems using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration treatment must notify
the State in writing by December 8, 2003, if the system recycles spent filter backwash
water, thickener supernatant, or liquids from dewatering processes. This notification must
include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) A plant schematic showing the origin of all flows which are recycled (including, but
    not limited to, spent filter backwash water, thickener supernatant, and liquids from
    dewatering processes), the hydraulic conveyance used to transport them, and the
    location where they are reintroduced back into the treatment plant.
(ii) Typical recycle flow in gallons per minute (gpm), the highest observed plant flow
     experienced in the previous year (gpm), design flow for the treatment plant (gpm),
     and the State-approved operating capacity for the plant where the State has made such
     determinations.
Ground water systems and ground water sources that are required to conduct process
compliance monitoring to assure the achievement of 4-log virus treatment, must record
the lowest treatment performance each day and record the date and duration of any failure
to achieve 4-log virus treatment for a period of more than four hours. In the event of
failure to achieve required virus treatment, the system shall continue to monitor treatment
performance every four hours until the system returns to compliance with minimum
performance requirements. The State must be notified of any failure to meet process
compliance monitoring requirements as well as any failure to achieve 4-log virus
treatment, as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the next business day.
 Information on detected contaminants from sampling used to determine compliance. For
the purpose of this subdivision (except Cryptosporidium, Giardia, and radon monitoring),
detected means: at or above the contaminant's method detection limit (MDL), as defined
in section 5-1.1(bl), or as prescribed by the State.



                                      Page 129
(i) For systems using the watershed control program option, notice of intention to
    develop a new or continue an existing watershed control program shall be submitted
    no later than two years before the treatment compliance date. The watershed control
    plan shall be submitted no later than one year before the treatment compliance date.
    The annual watershed control program status report shall be submitted every 12
    months. For community water systems, the watershed sanitary survey report shall be
    submitted every three years. For noncommunity water systems, the watershed
    sanitary survey report shall be submitted every five years.
(ii) For systems using the alternative source/intake management option, verification that
     the system has relocated the intake or adopted the intake withdrawal procedure,
     reflected in monitoring results, shall be submitted.
(iii)For systems using the presedimentation option, monthly verification of the following
     shall be submitted within 10 days after the month in which the monitoring was
     conducted: continuous basin operation; treatment of 100 percent of the flow;
     continuous addition of coagulant; and at least 0.5-log mean reduction of influent
     turbidity or compliance with alternative State-approved compliance criteria.
(iv) For systems using the two-stage lime softening option, monthly verification of the
     following shall be submitted within 10 days after the month in which the monitoring
     was conducted: chemical addition and hardness precipitation occurred in two separate
     and sequential softening stages prior to filtration; and both stages treated 100 percent
     of the plant flow.
(v) For systems using the bank filtration option, initial demonstration of the following
     shall be submitted no later than treatment compliance date: aquifer shall be
     unconsolidated sand containing at least 10 percent fines; and setback distance of at
     least 25 feet (0.5-log credit) or 50 feet (1.0-log credit). If the monthly average of daily
     maximum turbidity is greater than 1 NTU, then the system shall report the result and
     submit an assessment of the cause within 30 days after the month in which the
     monitoring was conducted, beginning on the applicable treatment compliance date.
(vi) For systems using the combined filter performance option, monthly verification of the
     following shall be submitted within 10 days following the month in which the
     monitoring was conducted: combined filter effluent (CFE) turbidity levels less than or
     equal to 0.15 NTU in at least 95 percent of the four-hour CFE measurements taken
     each month.
(vii) For systems using the individual filter performance option, monthly verification of
     the following shall be submitted within 10 days following the month in which the
     monitoring was conducted: individual filter effluent (IFE) turbidity levels less than or
     equal to 0.15 NTU in at least 95 percent of sample each month in each filter; and no
     individual filter greater than 0.3 NTU in two consecutive readings 15 minutes apart.
(viii) For systems using the demonstration of performance option, the results from testing
     following a State-approved protocol shall be submitted no later than the treatment
     compliance date. Monthly verification of operation within the conditions of State
     approval for demonstration of performance credit, may be required to be submitted
     within 10 days after the month in which the monitoring was conducted, beginning on
     the applicable treatment compliance date.



                                       Page 130
(ix) For systems using the bag filter and cartridge filter option, demonstration that the
     following criteria are met shall be submitted no later than the treatment compliance
     date: the process meets the definition of bag or cartridge filtration; and the removal
     efficiency established through challenge testing that meets criteria approved by the
     State. Monthly verification that 100 percent of the plant flow was filtered shall be
     submitted within 10 days after the month in which monitoring was conducted,
     beginning on the applicable treatment compliance date.
(x) For systems using the membrane filtration option, results of verification testing
     demonstrating the following shall be submitted no later than the treatment compliance
     date: removal efficiency established through challenge testing that meets criteria
     approved by the State; and integrity test method and parameters, including resolution,
     sensitivity, test frequency, control limits, and associated baseline. A monthly report
     summarizing the following shall be submitted within 10 days after the month in
     which monitoring was conducted: all direct integrity tests above the control limit;
     and, if applicable, any turbidity or alternative State-approved indirect integrity
     monitoring results triggering direct integrity testing and the corrective action that was
     taken.
(xi) For systems using the second stage filtration option, monthly verification that 100
     percent of flow was filtered through both stages, and that the first stage was preceded
     by a coagulation step, shall be submitted within 10 days after the month in which
     monitoring was conducted.
(xii) For systems using the slow sand filtration (as secondary filter) option, monthly
     verification that both a slow sand filter and a preceding separate stage of filtration
     treated 100 percent of surface water flow shall be submitted within 10 days after the
     month in which monitoring was conducted.
(xiii) For systems using the chlorine dioxide option, a summary of CT values for each
     day shall be submitted within 10 days after the month in which monitoring was
     conducted.
(xiv) For systems using the ozone option, a summary of CT values for each day shall be
     submitted within 10 days after the month in which monitoring was conducted.
(xv) For systems using the UV option, validation test results demonstrating operating
     conditions that achieve the required UV dose shall be submitted no later than the
     treatment compliance date. A monthly report, summarizing the percentage of water
     entering the distribution system that was not treated by UV reactors operating within
     validated conditions for the required dose shall be submitted within 10 days after the
     month in which monitoring was conducted.
Within 10 days of the end of any quarter in which monitoring of disinfection byproducts
(DBP) and/or disinfection byproduct precursors (DBPP) is required under section 5-1.52
Table 9A and/or sections 5-1.60 and 5-1.61, the following must be reported to the State:
(i) Number of DBP and DBPP samples taken during the quarter.
(ii) Date and results of each DBP and DBPP sample taken during the last quarter.
(iii)The arithmetic average of DBP quarterly results for the last four quarters for each
     monitoring location (LRAA). If the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four
     quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring


                                       Page 131
            results of subsequent quarters, the system must report this information to the State as
            part of the first report due following the end of the quarter or anytime thereafter that
            this determination is made. If the system is required to conduct monitoring at a
            frequency that is less than quarterly, the system must make compliance calculations
            beginning with the first compliance sample unless the system is required to conduct
            increased monitoring under section 5-1.52 Table 9A or 5-1.51.
       (iv) Whether the MCL for Total Trihalomethanes (TTHM) and/or Halo Acetic Acids (5)
            (HAA5) was violated at any monitoring location.
       (v) Any operational evaluation levels that were exceeded during the quarter and, if so, the
            location and date, and the calculated TTHM and HAA5 levels.
       (vi) If the system is a surface water system or a system using a source of ground water
            under the direct influence of surface water, and seeking to qualify for or remain on
            reduced TTHM/HAA5 monitoring, source water Total Organic Carbon (TOC)
            information must be reported for each treatment plant that treats surface water or
            ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as follows:
            (a) The number of source water TOC samples taken each month during last quarter.
            (b) The date and result of each TOC sample taken during last quarter.
            (c) The quarterly average of monthly TOC samples taken during the last quarter.
            (d) The running annual average (RAA) of quarterly TOC averages from the past four
                 quarters.
            (e) Whether the TOC RAA exceeded 4.0 mg/L.

(d) Any supplier of water of a public water system, subject to the provisions of this Subpart, shall
    retain at a convenient location the following records:
       Records of microbiological analyses made pursuant to this Subpart shall be retained for at
       least five years and records of chemical and turbidity analyses made pursuant to this
       Subpart shall be retained for at least ten years. Actual laboratory reports may be kept, or
       data may be transferred to tabular summaries, if the following information is included:
       (i) the date, place and time of sampling, and the name of the person who collected the
            sample;
       (ii) identification of the sample whether it was a routine distribution point sample, check
            sample, raw or process water sample or other special purpose sample;
       (iii)date of analyses;
       (iv) laboratory and person responsible for performing the analysis;
       (v) the analytical technique or method used; and
       (vi) the results of the analyses.

       All Level 1 and Level 2 assessment forms, documentation of corrective actions
       completed as a result of such assessments, and any other summary documentation of
       sanitary defects and corrective actions, shall be retained for at least five years.

       All records of repeat samples that are taken for the purpose of obtaining an extension of
       the 24-hour period for collecting such repeat samples shall be retained for at least five
       years.




                                              Page 132
Records of corrective actions taken by the supplier of water to correct significant
deficiencies and/or violations of the requirements of this Subpart shall be retained for at
least ten years.
Copies of any written reports, including summaries or communications relating to
sanitary surveys of the public water system shall be retained for at least 10 years.

Records concerning a variance or exemption granted to the public water system shall be
retained for at least five years following the expiration of such variance or exemption.

Copies of the records or data summaries shall be provided to any consumer of the public
water system within 15 days on written request by a consumer. The supplier of water may
require prepayment of a fee to cover the cost of handling and reproduction of the records
and data summaries requested.

The supplier of water must provide the State with copies of all repeat or special total
coliform sample results and all Escherichia coli (E. coli) sample results, within five days
of receipt.

 Beginning June 8, 2004, systems using conventional filtration treatment or direct
filtration that recycle spent backwash water, thickener supernatant or liquids from the de-
watering processes must collect the following recycle flow information:
(i) copy of the recycle notification and information submitted to the State in accordance
    with paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of this section;
(ii) list of all recycle flows and the frequency with which they are returned;
(iii)average and maximum backwash flow rate through the filters and the average and
     maximum duration of the filter backwash process in minutes;
(iv) typical filter run length and a written summary of how filter run length is determined;
(v) the type of treatment provided for the recycle flow; and
(vi) data on the physical dimensions of the equalization and/or treatment units, typical and
     maximum hydraulic loading rates, type of treatment chemicals used and average dose
     and frequency of use, and frequency at which solids are removed, if applicable.
 For surface water systems and ground water systems under the direct influence of
surface water, the following records shall be maintained:
(i) Systems shall keep results from the initial round of source water monitoring under
     section 5-1.81(a)(1) of this Subpart and the second round of source water monitoring
     under section 5-1.81(a)(2) of this Subpart until three years after bin classification
     under section 5-1.83(a) of this Subpart for filtered systems, or determination of the
     mean Cryptosporidium level under section 5-1.83(c) of this Subpart for unfiltered
     systems for the particular round of monitoring.
(ii) Systems shall keep any notification to the State that they will not conduct source
     water monitoring due to meeting the criteria of section 5-1.81(a)(4) of this Subpart for
     three years.



                                      Page 133
       (iii) Systems shall keep the results of treatment monitoring associated with
            Cryptosporidium and with uncovered finished water storage facilities under section 5-
            1.32 of this Subpart for three years.
(e) Each community water system which serves 15 or more service connections used by year-
    round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents shall prepare and provide
    an annual water supply statement (report) to the customers it serves. The report must contain
    information on the quality of the water delivered by the system and characterize the risks (if
    any) from exposure to contaminants detected in the drinking water in an accurate and
    understandable manner. For the purpose of this subpart, customers are defined as billing units
    or service connections to which water is delivered by a community water system.

(f) The report shall contain such information as is required in this subdivision and any additional
    information required by the State, except that paragraph (7) and paragraph (13)
    subparagraphs (vii) through (xi) of this subdivision shall not apply to systems serving fewer
    than 1,000 service connections. The information required to be included in the report is
    described below.
       Information on the source of the water delivered. The report must identify the source(s)
       of the water delivered by the community water system by providing information on:
       (i) the type of the water source (e.g., surface water, ground water); and
       (ii) the commonly used name (if any) and location of the body (or bodies) of water or
            aquifer(s).
       If the State has completed a source water assessment, the report must notify consumers of
       the availability of this information and the means to obtain it. The report must include a
       brief summary of the system's susceptibility to potential sources of contamination, using
       language provided by the State.
       Definitions for Maximum Contaminant Level, Maximum Contaminant Level Goal,
       Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level, and Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level Goal.
       Each report must include the definitions set forth using the following language:
       (i) Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant in drinking
            water below which there is no known or expected risk to health. MCLGs allow for a
            margin of safety.
       (ii) Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL). The highest level of a contaminant that is
            allowed in drinking water. MCLs are set as close to the MCLGs as feasible.
       (iii)Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level (MRDL). The highest level of a disinfectant
            that is allowed in drinking water.
       (iv) Maximum Residual Disinfectant Level Goal (MRDLG). The level of a drinking water
            disinfectant below which there is no known or expected risk to health. MRDLGs do
            not reflect the benefits of the use of disinfectants to control microbial contaminants.
       Definitions for variances and exemptions. A report for a community water system
       operating under a variance or an exemption issued under sections 5-1.90-5-1.96 of this
       Subpart must include the following language: Variances and Exemptions: State
       permission not to meet an MCL or a treatment technique under certain conditions.


                                              Page 134
        Definitions for action level and treatment technique. A report that includes information
        on a contaminant that is regulated as a Treatment Technique (i.e., turbidity) or Action
        Level (i.e., lead, copper) must include one or both of the following statements:
        (i) Treatment Technique (TT): A required process intended to reduce the level of a
             contaminant in drinking water.
        (ii) Action Level (AL): The concentration of a contaminant which, if exceeded, triggers
             treatment or other requirements which a water system must follow.
      Information on detected contaminants from sampling used to determine compliance. For
      the purpose of this subdivision (except Cryptosporidium, Giardia, and radon monitoring),
      detected means: at or above the contaminant's method detection limit (MDL), as defined
      in section 5-1.1(bl), or as prescribed by the State. Any contaminants specified in sections
      5-1.41 (lead and copper) and 5-1.51 of this Subpart and section 5-1.52 Tables 8A, 8B,
      8C, 8D, 9A, 9B, 9C, 9D, 10, 10A, 11, 11A, 11B, 12, 16 and 17 of this Subpart that are
      detected during compliance monitoring shall be displayed in one table or in several
      adjacent tables. Additionally, the report shall include detected monitoring results for
      samples collected and analyzed by the State and/or detected monitoring results of
      additional samples required by the State. If a system is allowed to monitor for specific
      contaminants less often than once a year, the table shall include the date and results of the
      most recent sampling and the report shall include a brief statement indicating that the data
      presented in the report are from the most recent testing done in accordance with the
      regulations. No data older than five years need be included. For the contaminants listed in
      section 5-1.52 Tables 8A, 8B, 8C, 8D, 9A, 9B, 9C, 9D, 10, 10A, 11, 11B, 12, 16 and 17
      of this Subpart the table(s) shall contain:
      (i) the State MCL for that contaminant expressed as a number equal to or greater than
           1.0;
      (ii) the MCLG (as prescribed by the State) for that contaminant expressed in the same
           units as the MCL;
      (iii)if there is no MCL for a detected contaminant, the table must indicate that there is a
           treatment technique, or specify the action level, applicable to that contaminant, and
           the report must include the definitions for treatment technique and/or action level, as
           appropriate, specified in paragraph 4 of this subdivision;
      (iv) for contaminants subject to a MCL, except turbidity and total coliforms, the highest
           contaminant level used to determine compliance with this Subpart1 and the range of
           detected levels, as follows:
           (a) when compliance with the MCL is determined annually or less frequently: the
                highest detected level at any sampling point and the range of detected levels
                expressed in the same units as the MCL;
           (b) when compliance with the MCL is determined more frequently than annually: the
                highest average of any of the sampling points used to determine compliance and
                the range of all sampling points expressed in the same units as the MCL;
__________________
1
 When rounding of results to determine compliance with the MCL is allowed by the regulations, rounding should be
done prior to converting the results to the same units presented for the MCL, TT or AL.




                                                   Page 135
   (c) when compliance with the MCL is determined by calculating a running annual
       average of all samples taken at a monitoring location: the highest average of any
       of the monitoring locations used to determine compliance and the range of all
       sampling points expressed in the same units as the MCL. For the MCLs for
       TTHM and HAA5, systems shall include the highest locational running annual
       average for TTHM and HAA5 and the range of individual sample results for all
       monitoring locations expressed in the same units as the MCL. If more than one
       location exceeds the TTHM or HAA5 MCL, the system shall include the
       locational running annual averages for all locations that exceed the MCL; and
   (d) when compliance with the MCL is determined on a system-wide basis by
       calculating a running annual average of all samples at all sampling points the
       report must include: the average used to determine compliance and the range of
       detection expressed in the same units as the MCL;
(v) surface water and groundwater under the direct influence systems are required to
    include information from turbidity monitoring in the report:
    (a) turbidity reported pursuant to the requirements of sections 5-1.30 and 5-1.52 table
        10 of this Subpart (for systems that must install filtration but have not) include the
        highest monthly average. The report should include health effects language
        prescribed by the State;
    (b) turbidity reported pursuant to the requirements of subdivision (c) of section 5-1.30
        and section 5-1.52 table 10A of this Subpart (for systems that have met the
        criteria of avoiding filtration) include the highest single measurement found in
        any one month. The report should include an explanation of the reasons for
        measuring turbidity; and
    (c) turbidity reported pursuant to sections 5-1.30 and 5-1.52 table 10A of this Subpart
        (for systems that filter and use turbidity as an indicator of filtration performance)
        include the highest single measurement and the lowest monthly percentage of
        samples meeting the turbidity limits specified in section 5-1.52 table 4A of this
        Subpart for the filtration technology being used. The report should include an
        explanation of the reasons for measuring turbidity;

(vi) for lead and copper: the 90th percentile value of the most recent round of sampling,
     the range of detections, and the number of sampling sites exceeding the AL;
(vii) for total coliform:
     (a) the highest monthly number of positive samples for systems collecting fewer than
         40 samples per month; or
     (b) the highest monthly percentage of positive samples for systems collecting at least
         40 samples per month;

(viii) for E. coli detected in the distribution system: the total number of positive samples;
     and
(ix) the likely source(s) of detected contaminants (as prescribed by the State) shall be
     reported.



                                       Page 136
If a community water system distributes water to its customers from multiple
hydraulically independent distribution systems that are fed by different raw water
sources, the report shall include data from each separate distribution system.
Alternatively, systems could produce separate reports tailored to include data for each
service area. The table(s) must clearly identify any violations of MCLs or TTs and the
report must contain a clear and readily understandable explanation of the violation
including the duration of the violation, the potential adverse health effects, and actions
taken by the system to address the violation. To describe the potential health effects, the
system must use language prescribed by the State.
Information on non-detected contaminants from sampling used to determine compliance.
Analytical test results for the contaminants listed in section 5-1.52 tables 8A, 8B, 8C, 8D,
9A, 9B, 9C, 9D, 10, 10A, 11, 12, 16 and 17 of this Subpart or additional monitoring
required by the State which are not detected shall be:
(i) described in the report in a brief narrative; or
(ii) presented in the report as a separate table or list.
Analytical results for source water samples not used to determine compliance. If the
analytical results for samples of source(s) of water supply, other than those for
Cryptosporidium or Giardia, used to determine compliance; or listed in section 5-1.52
tables 16 and 17 of this Subpart; are not included in the report, they shall be placed in a
supplement to the report.
Information on Cryptosporidium, Giardia and radon. If the system has performed any
monitoring for Cryptosporidium, Giardia or radon, which indicates that Cryptosporidium
or Giardia may be present in the source water or the finished water or that radon may be
present in finished water, the report must include:
(i) a summary of the following: sampling sites; number of tests per year; testing results;
     and actions taken in response to those results; and
(ii) an explanation of the significance of the results.
Compliance with the State Sanitary Code. The report must note any violation that
occurred during the year covered by the report of a requirement listed below, and include
a clear and readily understandable explanation of the violation, any potential adverse
health effects related to the violation, and the steps the system has taken to correct the
violation:
(i) monitoring and reporting and recordkeeping of compliance data;
(ii) filtration and disinfection prescribed by sections 5-1.30 and 5-1.32 of this Subpart.
     For systems which have failed to install adequate filtration or disinfection equipment
     or processes, or have had a failure of such equipment or processes which constitutes a
     violation, the report must include language prescribed by the State;
(iii)lead and copper control requirements. The report shall include health effects language
     specified in 40 CFR 141.54(d) for lead, copper, or both, for systems which fail to take
     one or more actions prescribed by sections 5-1.40 through 5-1.48 of this Subpart;




                                         Page 137
(iv) the report must include health effects language prescribed by the State for systems
     which violate the TTs specified in section 5-1.51 of this Subpart for Acrylamide and
     Epichlorohydrin; and
(v) violation of the terms of a variance, an exemption, or an administrative or judicial
    order.
  Variances and exemptions. If a system is operating under the terms of a variance or an
exemption issued under sections 5-1.90-5-1.96 of this subpart the report must contain:
(i) an explanation of the reasons for the variance or exemption;
(ii) the date on which the variance or exemption was issued;
(iii)a brief status report on the steps the system is taking to install treatment, find
     alternative sources of water, or otherwise comply with the terms and schedules of the
     variance or exemption; and
(iv) a notice of any opportunity for public input in the review, or renewal, of the variance
     or exemption.
  Educational information. The report must contain the language of subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph or alternative language approved by the State. The report also must
     include the language of subparagraphs (ii) through (iv) of this paragraph.
(ii) The sources of drinking water (both tap water and bottled water) include rivers, lakes,
     streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs, and wells. As water travels over the surface of the
     land or through the ground, it dissolves naturally occurring minerals and can pick up
     substances resulting from the presence of animals or from human activities.
     Contaminants that may be present in source water include: microbial contaminants;
     inorganic contaminants; pesticides and herbicides; organic chemical contaminants;
     and radioactive contaminants.
(iii)In order to ensure that tap water is safe to drink, the State and the EPA prescribe
     regulations which limit the amount of certain contaminants in water provided by
     public water systems. The State Health Department's and the FDA’s regulations
     establish limits for contaminants in bottled water which must provide the same
     protection for public health.
(iv) Drinking water, including bottled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at
     least small amounts of some contaminants. The presence of contaminants does not
     necessarily indicate that water poses a health risk. More information about
     contaminants and potential health effects can be obtained by calling the
     Environmental Protection Agency's Safe Drinking Water Hotline (800-426-4791).
(v) Some people may be more vulnerable to disease causing microorganisms or
     pathogens in drinking water than the general population. Immuno-compromised
     persons such as persons with cancer undergoing chemotherapy, persons who have
     undergone organ transplants, people with HIV/AIDS or other immune system
     disorders, some elderly, and infants can be particularly at risk from infections. These
     people should seek advice from their health care provider about their drinking water.
     EPA/CDC guidelines on appropriate means to lessen the risk of infection by




                                      Page 138
   Cryptosporidium, Giardia and other microbial pathogens are available from the Safe
   Drinking Water Hotline (800-426-4791).
  Additional health effects statements for arsenic, nitrate, lead, total trihalomethanes, and
fluoride:
(i) A system which detects arsenic at levels above 5 ug/l, but less than or equal to the
     MCL must include in its report a short informational statement about arsenic, using
     language prescribed by the State.
(ii) A system which detects nitrate at levels above 5 mg/l, but below the MCL must
     include a short informational statement about the impacts of nitrate on children using
     language prescribed by the State.
(iii)A system which detects lead above the action level in more than 5%, and up to and
     including 10% of the sites sampled (or for systems sampling less than 20 sites and
     even one sample is above the action level) must include a short informational
     statement about the special impact of lead on children using language prescribed by
     the State.
(iv) A system using only ground water or using surface water as its source and serving
     less than 10,000 persons, which detects TTHMs above 80 ug/l, but below 100 ug/l, as
     an annual average, monitored and calculated as described in Section 5-1.52 Table 3 of
     this Subpart, must until January 1, 2004, include health effects language prescribed
     by the State.
(v) A system which detects fluoride at levels above 2 mg/l, but below the MCL must
     include in its report an informational statement about fluoride, using language
     prescribed by the State.
  Additional information. Each report must also include the items listed below.
(i) the name and address of the community water system and the public water system
     identification number;
(ii) the name and telephone number of the owner, operator, or designee of the community
     water system as a source of additional information concerning the report;
(iii)the telephone number of the county or district health department office which has
     jurisdiction over the water system;
(iv) information (e.g., time and place of regularly scheduled board meetings) about
     opportunities for public participation in decisions that may affect the quality of the
     water;
(v) a brief statement explaining the number of people served by the community water
     system;
(vi) a brief description of the types of treatment that the water received before entering the
     distribution system
(vii) for systems that calculate water use of all customers with meters, an accounting of
     the total annual amount of water withdrawn, delivered, and lost from the system;
(viii) a brief description of any water source restricted, removed from service, or
     otherwise limited in its use and any actions taken to secure new supplies or replace
     lost capacity;


                                       Page 139
(ix) water conservation measures customers can take such as, but not limited to,
     retrofitting plumbing fixtures, altering irrigation timing, using irrigation sensors, leak
     detection, proper use of water conserving appliances, daily conscientious use of
     water, and the estimated savings in water and energy or money from the use of such
     measures;
(x) a description of any major modification completed by the water system during the
     reporting period to include a brief description of each and its effect on the water
     system, and a discussion of capital improvements needed or planned;
(xi) for systems that bill their customers, the report shall include the annual average
     charge for water, either in annual charge per average resident user or annual charge
     per one thousand gallons of water delivered; and
(xii) systems may also include such additional information as they deem necessary for
     public education consistent with, and not detracting from, the purpose of the report.
  Information for non-English speaking residents. In communities with a large proportion
of non-English speaking residents, as determined by the State, the report must contain
information prescribed by the State in the appropriate language(s) expressing the
importance of the report.
 Information on unregulated contaminants. If the system was required to monitor for
contaminants listed in section 5-1.52 Table 16, the report must identify a person and
provide the telephone number to contact for information on the monitoring results.
  Water systems are required to include information regarding significant deficiencies as
follows:
(i) any significant deficiency that remains uncorrected at the end of the year (December
     31) or any other significant deficiency as directed by the State. A description of the
     significant deficiency must include: the date the significant deficiency was identified
     by the State; status of corrective action; the completion date if corrective action has
     been completed; and if corrective action has not been completed, the reason why it
     has not been completed. Uncorrected significant deficiencies must be reported each
     year until the annual report documents that corrective action is completed; and
(ii) any failure to take corrective action to correct a significant deficiency in system
     facilities or operation, including a description of the significant deficiency, the date
     the significant deficiency was identified by the State, and the reason why corrective
     action has not been taken.
  Ground water systems and systems with ground water sources are also required to
include information regarding source sampling and process compliance monitoring as
follows:
(i) Report of fecal indicator positive ground water source sample, including: the date the
    fecal contamination of the source was identified; the likely source of the
    contamination, if known; the date(s) and status of any corrective action; and potential
    health effects language prescribed by the State.;




                                       Page 140
       (ii) If required to perform 4-log virus treatment, failure to provide the treatment must be
            described including date(s) of failure and whether 4-log virus treatment has resumed;
            and
       (iii)If required to perform 4-log virus treatment, failure to meet process compliance
            monitoring requirements must be described including date(s) of failure and whether
            the required process compliance monitoring has resumed.

(g) Report delivery and record keeping.
       Report distribution to consumers.
       (i) Each community water system must mail or otherwise directly deliver one copy of
            the report to each bill-paying customer by the date specified in subdivision (h).
       (ii) The system must make a good faith effort to reach consumers who do not get water
            bills, using methods prescribed by the State.
       (iii)Each community water system serving 100,000 or more people must post the current
            year's report to a publicly-accessible site on the Internet.
       (iv) Each community water system must make its reports available to the public upon
            request.
       (v) If a supplement is prepared in accordance with subdivision (f) paragraph (7) of this
           section, the report must contain a statement that describes that the analytical results
           for source water samples not used to determine compliance are contained in a
           supplement and that the supplement is available to the customer on request. The
           supplement shall also be:
           (a) published in a notice at least one-half page in size, in one newspaper of general
                circulation within the water district;
           (b) made available on the Internet, along with supplements from the two prior years,
                if such prior supplements exist, and notice of the availability of such information
                on the Internet shall be clearly provided on the report and on each billing
                statement; or
           (c) made available at all New York State documents information access centers,
                documents reference centers, documents depository libraries and documents
                research depository libraries within the water district and if no such libraries exist
                within the water district at a public library within the water district, and notice of
                the availability of the supplement at such library or libraries shall be clearly
                provided on the report and on each billing statement.

              Such supplement need not be included in the copy of the report mailed or directly
              delivered to each bill-paying customer.
       Report distribution to state agencies.
       (i) No later than the date the system is required to distribute the report to its customers,
           each community water system must mail one copy of the report and one copy of the
           supplement, if prepared, to the Commissioner of the State Health Department and the
           county or district health department office which has jurisdiction over the water


                                                Page 141
            system. The system must also deliver (by the first of September) to these two
            agencies a certification that the report has been distributed to customers, and that the
            information is correct and consistent with the compliance monitoring data previously
            submitted to the state.
       (ii) No later than the date the system is required to distribute the report to its customers,
            each community water system serving 1,000 or more service connections must
            deliver a copy of the report and a copy of the supplement, if prepared to the
            Commissioner of Environmental Conservation.
       (iii)Investor-owned community water systems regulated by the Public Service
            Commission (PSC) shall also deliver a copy of the report and a copy of any
            supplement prepared, to that agency.
       Recordkeeping requirements. Any system subject to this Subpart must retain copies of
       the report for no less than three years.

(h) Applicable dates.

       All community water systems must deliver a copy the report, to its bill-paying customers
       and take good faith efforts to reach consumers who do not get water bills on or before
       May 31st of each year.
       Each community water system serving 100,000 or more people must post their current
       year's report on a publicly accessible site on the Internet by May 31st of each year.
       All community water systems must deliver a copy of the report and a copy of the
       supplement, if prepared, to the required regulatory agencies on or before May 31st of each
       year.
       A new community water system, must deliver its first report to its customers and a copy
       of the report and the supplement, if prepared to the required regulatory agencies by May
       31st of the year after its first full calendar year in operation and annually thereafter.
       A community water system that sells water to another community water system, must
       deliver the applicable information required in paragraphs (f)(1), (5)-(10) and (13) of this
       section to the buyer system:
       (i) by April 1st of each year; or
       (ii) on a date mutually agreed upon by the seller and the purchaser, and specifically
            included in a contract between the parties.
       By September 1st, each community water system must mail a copy of the certification
       form to the State Health Department and the county or district health department office
       which has jurisdiction over the water system.




                                              Page 142
5-1.73 Water treatment plant laboratory. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

Every supplier of water shall provide, or have available environmental laboratory facilities
approved by the New York State Environmental Laboratory Approval Program (ELAP). Tests
for the control of the operation of such public water system shall be made daily or more
frequently as required by the State. The results of such tests shall be recorded on forms pursuant
to section 5-1.72(d) of this Subpart.


5-1.74 Approved laboratories. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) For determining compliance with this Subpart, results of analyses, except for parameters
    listed in section 5-1.74(b), may be considered only if they have been performed by an
    environmental laboratory approved in accordance with Subpart 55-2 of this Title (10
    NYCRR Part 55, Subpart 55-2).

(b) Measurements for pH, temperature, conductivity, turbidity, disinfectant residual, alkalinity,
    calcium, orthophosphate, bromide, chlorite, total organic carbon (TOC) concentration,
    dissolved organic carbon concentration, ultraviolet (UV) absorption, and silica may be
    performed by any person with a demonstrated ability to perform these analyses. These
    analyses shall be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR Part 141. All necessary
    documentation required by the approved methods shall be retained by the water system
    conducting the analyses for a period of ten years.

(c) The owner of a water system shall ensure the approved environmental laboratory performing
    the analyses sends laboratory results to the department in a manner prescribed by the
    department.


5-1.75 Additional sampling requirements. (Effective Date: July 3, 1991)

(a) Additional water samples for any contaminant shall be collected and analyzed from any
    public water system by the supplier of water as may be required by the State, to assure
    control of the quality of the public water system.

(b) The State may collect and analyze water samples from any public water system at any time,
    either by its own personnel or by contract with others.


5-1.76 Consecutive public water systems. (Effective Date: November 9, 2011)

(a) When a public water system supplies water to one or more consecutive public water systems,
    the State may modify the monitoring requirements of this Subpart when the circumstances
    justify treating them as a single system for monitoring purposes. Any modified monitoring
    shall be conducted pursuant to a schedule approved by the State, in accordance with the
    provisions of sections 5-1.51 and 5-1.52 of this Subpart.



                                             Page 143
(b) Consecutive systems must follow section 5-1.52 Table 11B of this Subpart in the event of a
    total coliform positive sample from their distribution system. When a consecutive system
    that receives ground water from a wholesale system is notified of a positive total coliform
    sample result, the consecutive system must, within 24 hours, notify the State, the wholesale
    system and any other wholesale system that owns and/or operates ground water sources that
    provides water used by the consecutive system. If all the water provided by the consecutive
    system has been subject to 4-log virus treatment and process compliance monitoring,
    notification by the consecutive system about the total coliform sample is not required. After
    notification, the wholesaler must, within 24 hours, test its raw water source(s) for fecal
    indicator organism(s) in accordance with section 5-1.52 Table 11B of this Subpart at the
    location(s) specified in the monitoring plan described in section 5-1.51 of this Subpart.


5-1.77 State notification. (Effective Date: November 9, 2011)

(a) The supplier of water shall make State notification within 24 hours of learning of the
    existence or potential existence of a public health hazard, or within 48 hours for any other
    violation or situation that may pose a risk to public health. Section 5-1.52 table 13 of this
    Subpart lists violations and situations that require State notification.

(b) The information provided in a State notification shall include, but not be limited to, the
    following:
       a description of the violation or situation, including the contaminant of concern, and (as
       applicable) the contaminant level;
       when the violation or situation occurred;
       what the system is doing to correct the violation or situation; and
       when the water system expects to return to compliance.

(c) Ground water systems and ground water sources that complete corrective action to correct
    significant deficiencies or address fecal contamination of a ground water source must notify
    the state within 30 days of the completion of the action.


5-1.78 Public notification (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) General public notification requirements. Each owner or operator of a public water system
    must provide public notification for public health hazards, and for all MCL, MRDL,
    treatment technique, monitoring and testing procedure violations, and for other situations
    posing a risk to public health. Public notification requirements are divided into three tiers to
    take into account the seriousness of the violation or situation and any potential adverse health
    effects that may be involved. The form, manner, frequency, and other requirements for each
    tier are described in subdivisions (c)-(e) of this section. Section 5-1.52 table 13 of this
    Subpart lists the required public notification (Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3) for specific violations
    and other situations posing a risk to public health.


                                               Page 144
       Public water systems that sell or otherwise provide drinking water to other public systems
       (i.e. to consecutive systems) are required to give public notice to the owner or operator of
       the consecutive system; the consecutive system is responsible for providing public
       notification to the persons it serves.
       If a public water system can show that a violation in a portion of the distribution system
       is physically or hydraulically isolated from other parts of the distribution system, then
       with written permission from the State the system may limit the notice to only persons
       served by that portion of the system that is out of compliance.
       The public water system, within 10 days of completing the public notification
       requirements under this Subpart for the initial public notification and any repeat notices,
       must submit to the State a certification that it has fully complied with the public
       notification regulations. The public water system must include with this certification a
       representative copy of each type of notice distributed, published, posted, and made
       available to the persons served by the system and to the media. Copies of public notices
       and certificates issued pursuant to this paragraph must be kept by the supplier of water
       for three years after issuance.
       Public notification is required when a significant deficiency is identified at a public water
       system that is not required to prepare an annual water supply statement (report), as
       directed in sections 5-1.72 (e) and (f) of this subpart. If the water system has been
       notified by the State of a significant deficiency and it has not been corrected as directed
       or approved by the State, the system must notify its customers in a format prescribed or
       approved by the State. Notice must be provided if any significant deficiency has not been
       corrected within 12 months of State notification or as otherwise directed by the State.
       The system must continue to inform the public until the significant deficiency is
       corrected.

(b) Content, presentation, and standard language requirements for all public notifications.
       When a public water system has a violation or a situation posing a risk to public health,
       other than operating under a variance or exemption, the public notification must include
       the following elements:
       (i) a description of the violation or situation, including the contaminant of concern, and
           (as applicable) the contaminant level;
       (ii) when the violation or situation occurred;
       (iii)any potential adverse health effects from the violation or situation, including the
            standard language under subparagraph (4)(i) or (ii) of this subdivision, whichever is
            applicable;
       (iv) the population at risk, including subpopulations particularly vulnerable if exposed to
            the contaminant in their drinking water;
       (v) whether alternative water supplies should be used;




                                             Page 145
(vi) what actions consumers should take, including when they should seek medical help, if
     known;
(vii) what the system is doing to correct the violation or situation;
(viii) when the water system expects to return to compliance;
(ix) the phone number of the water system owner, operator, or designee of the public
     water system as a source of additional information concerning the notice;
(x) the phone number of the county or district health department which has jurisdiction
    over the water system; and
(xi) a statement included in notices distributed by mail or direct delivery to encourage the
     notice recipient to distribute the public notice to other persons served, using the
     standard language under subparagraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.
When a public water system operates under a variance or exemption, each public notice
must include the following elements:
(i) an explanation of the reasons for the variance or exemption;
(ii) the date on which the variance or exemption was issued;
(iii)a brief status report on the steps the system is taking to install treatment, find
     alternative sources of water, or otherwise comply with the terms and schedules of the
     variance or exemption; and
(iv) a notice of any opportunity for public input in the review of the variance or
     exemption.
Notice presentation. Each public notice required by this section:
(i) must be displayed in a conspicuous way (where applicable);
(ii) must not contain overly technical language or very small print;
(iii)must not be formatted in a way that defeats the purpose of the notice;
(iv) must not contain language which nullifies the purpose of the notice; and
(v) must contain information for non-English speaking consumers, where appropriate.
     For systems serving a large proportion of non-English speaking consumers, as
     determined by the State, the notice must contain information prescribed by the State
     in the appropriate language(s) expressing the importance of the notice.
Standard Language.
(i) Mandatory health effects language must be included in the notification for MCL and
     MRDL violations, treatment technique violations, and violations of the condition of a
     variance or exemption. The mandatory health effects language will be developed by
     the Department and provided to the supplier of water by the State.
(ii) Standard language for monitoring and testing procedure violations. Public water
     systems must include the following language in their notice, including the language
     necessary to fill in the blanks, for all monitoring and testing procedure violations
     listed in section 5-1.52 table 13 of this Subpart: We are required to monitor your
     drinking water for specific contaminants on a regular basis. Results of regular


                                       Page 146
            monitoring are an indicator of whether or not your drinking water meets health
            standards. During (compliance period), we "did not monitor or test" or "did not
            complete all monitoring or testing" for (contaminant(s)), and therefore cannot be sure
            of the quality of your drinking water during that time.
       (iii)Standard language to encourage distribution of the public notice to all persons served,
            when the notice is distributed by mail or direct delivery: Please share this information
            with all the other people who drink this water, especially those who may not have
            received this notice directly (for example, people in apartments, nursing homes,
            schools, and businesses). You can do this by posting this notice in a public place or
            distributing copies by hand or mail.
       (iv) Standard language for repeated failure to conduct Cryptosporidium monitoring: We
            are required to monitor the source of your drinking water for Cryptosporidium.
            Results of the monitoring are to be used to determine whether water treatment at the
            (treatment plant name) is sufficient to adequately remove Cryptosporidium from your
            drinking water. We are required to complete this monitoring and make this
            determination by (required bin determination date). We “did not monitor or test” or
            “did not complete all monitoring or testing” on schedule, and therefore, we may not
            be able to determine by the required date what treatment modifications, if any, shall
            be made to ensure adequate Cryptosporidium removal. Missing this deadline may, in
            turn, jeopardize our ability to have the required treatment modifications, if any,
            completed by the deadline required, (date). For more information, please call (name
            of water system contact) of (name of water system) at (phone number).
       (v) Standard language for failure to determine bin classification or mean
            Cryptosporidium level: We are required to monitor the source of your drinking water
            for Cryptosporidium in order to determine by (date) whether water treatment at the
            (treatment plant name) is sufficient to adequately remove Cryptosporidium from your
            drinking water. We have not made this determination by the required date. Our failure
            to do this may jeopardize our ability to have the required treatment modifications, if
            any, completed by the required deadline of (date). For more information, please call
            (name of water system contact) of (name of water system) at (phone number).

(c) Tier 1 notification requirements (public health hazards, as defined in subdivision 5-1.1 (bz) of
    this Subpart, require Tier 1 notification). The supplier of water shall:
       provide public notification no later than 24 hours after the system learns of a public
       health hazard;
       initiate consultation with the State no later than 24 hours after the public water system
       learns of the public health hazard, and comply with any additional notification
       requirements established as a result of the consultation (including using additional forms
       of delivery for the initial notification, the duration of the posted notices, or any repeat
       notices);
       notify by telephone the chief administrative or elected official of the city, village or town,
       wherein the public water system is located, and the local law enforcement department
       having jurisdiction in the area served by the public water system, that a public health
       hazard exists. If there is a potential for the public health hazard to cross political


                                              Page 147
       boundaries, all potentially impacted chief administrative or elected officials and local law
       enforcement departments in the political subdivisions, served by the public water system,
       must also be notified; and
       provide the notice in a form and manner reasonably calculated to reach all persons served
       (including residential, transient, and non-transient users) in the required time period.
       Water systems are to use one or more of the following forms of delivery:
       (i) appropriate broadcast media (such as radio and television);
       (ii) posting of the notice in conspicuous locations throughout the area served by the water
            system;
       (iii)hand delivery of the notice to persons served by the water system; or
       (iv) another delivery method approved in writing by the State

(d) Tier 2 notification requirements (section 5-1.52 table 13 of this Subpart lists violations and
    situations that require Tier 2 notification).
       The supplier of water must provide public notification no later than 30 days after the
       system learns of a violation or situation that requires Tier 2 notification. If the public
       water system corrects the violation within 30 days, the State may allow additional time
       for the initial notice of up to three months from the date the system learns of the
       violation.
       The supplier of water must repeat the notice every three months as long as the violation
       or situation persists. If the public notice is posted, the notice must remain in place as long
       as the violation or situation persists, but in no case less than seven days.

       The supplier of water must provide the notice in a form and manner reasonably calculated
       to reach all persons served in the required time period

       (i) Unless directed otherwise by the State in writing, community water systems must
           provide notice by: mail or other direct delivery to each customer receiving a bill, and
           to other service connections to which water is delivered by the public water system;
           and by any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons regularly
           served by the system if they would not normally be reached by mail or direct
           delivery.
       (ii) Unless directed otherwise by the State in writing, non-community water systems must
            provide notice by posting the notice in conspicuous locations, and by any other
            method(s) reasonably calculated to reach other persons served by the system if they
            would not normally be reached by posting.
       For the turbidity violations or exceedances specified in subparagraphs (i)-(iii) of this
       paragraph, the supplier of water must consult with the State no later than 24 hours after
       the public water system learns of the violation or exceedance to determine whether a Tier
       1 notification is required to protect public health. When consultation does not take place
       within the 24 hour period, the water system must distribute a Tier 1 notification no later




                                              Page 148
       than 48 hours after the system learns of the violation or exceedance. Consultation with
       the State is required for:
       (i) a violation of the two day average maximum allowable turbidity at the entry point
            pursuant to section 5-1.52 table 4 of this Subpart;
       (ii) a violation resulting from a single exceedance of the maximum allowable turbidity for
            filter effluent pursuant to section 5-1.52 table 4A of this Subpart; and
       (iii)a single raw water turbidity exceedance of 5 NTU for systems operating under the
            avoidance criteria in subdivision 5-1.30(c) of this Subpart.
       Consultation with the State is required within 24 hours after a ground water system or
       ground water source learns of any of the following:
       (i) A fecal indicator positive sample from the source(s) as specified in section 5-1.52
           table 6 of this subpart;
       (ii) A significant deficiency that is considered to constitute a public health hazard; or
       (iii)Failure of 4-log virus treatment by the water system that is not resolved within four
            hours.
         The State will determine whether Tier 1 notification is required to protect public health.
         When consultation does not take place within the 24-hour period, the water system must
         distribute Tier 1 notification no later than 48 hours after the system learns of the
         violation or exceedance.
       For repeated failure to conduct Cryptosporidium monitoring, failure to determine bin
       classification, or failure to calculate mean Cryptosporidium, each notification shall also
       include a description of what the system is doing to correct the violation and when the
       system expects to return to compliance or resolve the situation.

(e) Tier 3 notification requirements (section 5-1.52 table 13 of this Subpart lists violations and
    situations that require Tier 3 notification).
       The supplier of water for community and non-transient noncommunity water systems
       must provide public notification no later than one year after the system learns of a
       violation or situation that requires Tier 3 notification. The supplier of water for transient
       noncommunity water systems must provide public notification no later than 30 days after
       the system learns of a violation or situation that requires Tier 3 notification. If the public
       water system operates seasonally, the public notification must also be provided before the
       system closes for the season.
       The supplier of water must repeat the notice annually for as long as the violation or
       situation persists. If the public notice is posted, the notice must remain in place as long as
       the violation or situation persists, but in no case less than seven days.
       The supplier of water may use a single public notice for multiple violations or situations
       that require Tier 3 notification, as long as the timing requirements of paragraph (1) of this
       subdivision are met. Community water systems may use the annual water supply




                                              Page 149
        statement (report) (see subdivisions 5-1.72(e) - (h) of this Subpart) to provide Tier 3
        notification.
        The supplier of water must provide the initial notice and any repeat notices in a form and
        manner reasonably calculated to reach all persons served in the required time period.
        (i) Unless directed otherwise by the State in writing, community water systems must
            provide notice by: mail or other direct delivery to each customer receiving a bill, and
            to other service connections to which water is delivered by the public water system;
            and by any other method reasonably calculated to reach other persons served by the
            system if they would not normally be reached by mail or direct delivery.
        (ii) Unless directed otherwise by the State in writing, non-community water systems must
             provide notice by posting the notice in conspicuous locations, and by any other
             method(s) reasonably calculated to reach other persons served by the system if they
             would not normally be reached by posting.
(f) Notice to new billing units or new customers. Community water systems must give a copy of
    the most recent public notice for any continuing violation, the existence of a variance or
    exemption, or other ongoing situations requiring a public notice to all new billing units or
    new customers prior to or at the time service begins.

(g) Information on unregulated contaminants. Nontransient noncommunity water systems that
    are required to monitor for contaminants listed in section 5-1.52 table 16, must post a notice
    that identifies a person and telephone number to contact for information on the monitoring
    results. The notice must be posted in conspicuous locations and no later than 12 months after
    the results are known.

(h) Notice by the State on behalf of the public water system. The State may make public
    notification if the State determines that the public's interest will be best served, or if the State
    determines that the supplier of water is not acting or cannot act in a timely manner. The State
    may charge and collect from the supplier of water the cost of making such notification.
    However, the supplier of water remains legally responsible for ensuring that the requirements
    of this section are met.

5-1.79 Multiple distribution systems. (Effective Date: January 6, 1993)

A water supply system or facility with multiple distribution systems on separate sources of water
supply shall be considered a single public water system if all the following conditions are met:

(a) The separate sources are the same source type, with:
        the ground water sources located in the same aquifer area; or
        the surface water intakes located in the same water body and the intakes at the same
        approximate depth and location;
(b) the water supply system or facility is owned and operated by the same person(s);
(c) the water supply system or facility is operated for the same purposes and for the same time


                                                Page 150
   period; and
(d) the water supply system or facility serves 25 or more people or 15 or more service connections.


ENHANCED TREATMENT FOR CRYPTOSPORIDIUM

5-1.80: Applicability. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) The provisions of this section, and sections 5-1.81 through 5-1.83 apply to all public water
    systems supplied by a surface water source(s) or ground water source(s) directly influenced
    by surface water, provided the system serves 15 or more service connections or serves 25 or
    more persons. The requirements in this section for filtered systems apply to any system with
    a surface water or GWUDI source that is required to provide filtration, regardless of whether
    the system is currently operating a filtration system. All treatment must comply with the
    requirements of the Microbial Toolbox Components as described in 40 CFR 141.715 through
    40 CFR 141.720. Any unfiltered systems that are in compliance with the filtration avoidance
    criteria in section 5-1.30(c) of this Subpart, are subject to the requirements in sections 5-1.80
    through 5-1.83 pertaining to unfiltered systems. Wholesale system compliance with sections
    5-1.81 through 5-1.83 is based on the population of the largest system in the combined
    distribution system. The above systems shall comply with the following requirements: (a)
    Systems shall conduct an initial and a second round of source water monitoring for each
    plant that treats water from a surface water source or ground water source directly influenced
    by surface water. This monitoring may include Cryptosporidium, E. coli, and turbidity, as
    described in section 5-1.81(a) through (d) of this Subpart, to determine what level, if any, of
    additional Cryptosporidium treatment shall be provided. Cryptosporidium monitoring shall
    be done using an approved method. The following method modifications must also be
    followed:
       Samples must be at least 10 liters (L) or a packed pellet volume of at least 2 milliliters
       (mL) must be used. If a 10 L sample cannot be processed, as much sample volume as can
       be filtered by two filters, as described in 40 CFR 141.704(a)(1), must be processed, up to
       a packed pellet volume of at least 2 mL.
       The method-required matrix spike (MS) samples must be spiked and filtered by a
       laboratory certified for the method.

       If the volume of the MS is greater than 10 L, the volume greater than 10 L may be
       filtered in the field, and the filtered sample may be shipped with the 10 L sample to the
       laboratory where the 10 L sample is spiked and filtered through the filter that was used to
       collect the balance of the sample in the field.
       Flow cytometer-counted spiking suspensions must be used for MS samples and ongoing
       precision and recovery samples.

(b) Systems that plan to make a significant change to their disinfection practice shall develop
    disinfection profiles and calculate disinfection benchmarks, as described in section 5-1.82 of
    this Subpart.


                                              Page 151
(c) Filtered systems shall determine their Cryptosporidium treatment bin classification, as
    described in section 5-1.83(a) of this Subpart, and provide additional treatment for
    Cryptosporidium, if required, as described in section 5-1.83(b) of this Subpart. All unfiltered
    systems shall determine their mean Cryptosporidium level and provide treatment for
    Cryptosporidium as described in section 5-1.83(c) of this Subpart. Systems shall implement
    Cryptosporidium treatment according to the schedule in section 5-1.83(d) of this Subpart.


5-1.81: Source Water Monitoring Requirements at Systems using Surface Water and
Ground Water under the Direct Influence of Surface Water (GWUDI) Sources. (Effective
Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Source Water Monitoring.
       Initial round of source water monitoring. Systems shall conduct the following
       monitoring, based on the monitoring schedule prescribed in paragraph (3) of this
       subdivision, unless they meet the monitoring exemption criteria in paragraph (4) of this
       subdivision:
       (i) Filtered systems serving at least 10,000 people shall sample their source water for
            Cryptosporidium, E. coli, and turbidity at least monthly for 24 months.
       (ii) Unfiltered systems serving at least 10,000 people shall sample their source water for
            Cryptosporidium at least monthly for 24 months.
       (iii)Filtered systems serving fewer than 10,000 people:
            (a) shall sample their source water for E. coli and use an approved method to
                enumerate the presence of E. coli at least once every two weeks for 12 months;
            (b) may avoid E. coli monitoring if the system notifies the State that it will monitor
                for Cryptosporidium as described in subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph. The
                system shall notify the state no later than three months prior to the date the system
                is otherwise required to start E. coli monitoring under paragraph (3) of this
                subdivision; and
            (c) shall sample their source water for Cryptosporidium at least twice per month for
                12 months, or at least monthly for 24 months, if, based on monitoring conducted
                under subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, they meet one of the following criteria:
                (1) the annual mean E. coli concentration is greater than 10 E. coli/ 100 mL; or
                (2) the system does not conduct E. coli monitoring at least once every two weeks
                    for 12 months.
                (3) The State may approve an alternative to the E. coli concentration specified in
                    subdivision (a)(1)(iii)(c)(1) of this section to trigger Cryptosporidium
                    monitoring. This approval by the State will be provided to the system in
                    writing and will include the basis for the State’s determination that the
                    alternative trigger concentration will provide a more accurate identification of
                    whether a system will exceed the Bin 1 Cryptosporidium level specified in
                    section 5-1.83(a)(2) of this Subpart.
       (iv) Unfiltered systems serving fewer than 10,000 people shall sample their source water
           for Cryptosporidium at least twice per month for 12 months or at least monthly for 24
           months.


                                              Page 152
(v) Systems may sample more frequently than required under this section if the sampling
    frequency is evenly spaced throughout the monitoring period.
Second round of source water monitoring. Systems shall conduct a second round of
source water monitoring that meets the requirements for monitoring parameters,
frequency, and duration described in paragraph (1) of this subdivision, unless they meet
the monitoring exemption criteria in paragraph (4) of this subdivision. Systems shall
conduct this monitoring on the schedule in paragraph (3) of this subdivision.
Monitoring schedule. Systems shall comply with the monitoring schedule prescribed in
40 CFR 141.701(c).
Monitoring avoidance.
(i) Filtered systems are not required to conduct source water monitoring under this
     section if the system will provide a total of at least 5.5-log of treatment for
     Cryptosporidium, equivalent to meeting the treatment requirements of Bin 4 in
     section 5-1.83(b) of this Subpart.
(ii) Unfiltered systems are not required to conduct source water monitoring under this
     section if the system will provide a total of at least 3-log Cryptosporidium
     inactivation, equivalent to meeting the treatment requirements for unfiltered systems
     with a mean Cryptosporidium concentration of greater than 0.01 oocysts/L in section
     5-1.83(c) of this Subpart.
(iii) If a system chooses to provide the level of treatment in subparagraph (i) or (ii) of this
     paragraph, as applicable, rather than start source water monitoring, the system shall
     notify the State in writing no later than the date the system is otherwise required to
     submit a sampling schedule for monitoring under subdivision (b) of this section.
     Alternatively, a system may choose to stop sampling at any point after it has initiated
     monitoring if it notifies the State in writing that it will provide this level of treatment.
     Systems shall install and operate technologies to provide this level of treatment by the
     applicable treatment compliance date in section 5-1.83(d) of this Subpart.

Plants operating only part of the year. Systems with surface water sources or ground
water sources directly influenced by surface water and with plants that operate for only
part of the year shall conduct source water monitoring in accordance with this section and
section 5-1.80 of this Subpart, but with the following modifications:
(i) Systems shall sample their source water only during the months that the plant
     operates unless the State specifies another monitoring period based on plant operating
     practices.
(ii) Systems with plants that operate less than six months per year and that monitor for
     Cryptosporidium shall collect at least six Cryptosporidium samples per year during
     each of two years of monitoring. Samples shall be evenly spaced throughout the
     period the plant operates.
New sources.
(i) A system that begins using a new source of surface water or ground water directly
    influenced by surface water after the system is required to begin monitoring under
    paragraph (3) of this subdivision shall monitor the new source on a schedule
    approved by the State. Source water monitoring shall meet the requirements of this
                                        Page 153
            section. The system also shall meet the bin classification of section 5-1.83(a) and
            Cryptosporidium treatment requirements of section 5-1.83(b) or 5-1.83(c) of this
            Subpart, as applicable, for the new source on a schedule approved by the State.
       (ii) The requirements of this paragraph also apply to new systems that use surface water
            or ground water directly influenced by surface water, that begin operation after the
            monitoring start date applicable to the system’s size under paragraph (3) of this
            subdivision.
       (iii)The system shall begin a second round of source water monitoring no later than six
            years following initial bin classification or determination of the mean
            Cryptosporidium level, as applicable.

(b) Sampling Schedules.
       Systems required to conduct source water monitoring under this section shall submit a
       sampling schedule that specifies the calendar dates when the system will collect each
       required sample. Systems shall submit sampling schedules to the State no later than three
       months prior to any applicable date referenced in subdivision (a)(3) of this section. If the
       State does not respond to a system regarding its sampling schedule, the system shall
       sample at the reported schedule.
       Systems shall collect samples within two days before or two days after the dates indicated
       in their sampling schedule, unless one of the following conditions applies:
       (i) If an extreme condition or situation exists that may pose danger to the sample
            collector, or that cannot be avoided and causes the system to be unable to sample in
            the scheduled five-day period, the system shall sample as close to the scheduled date
            as is feasible, unless the State approves an alternate sampling date. The system shall
            submit an explanation for the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the
            shipment of the sample to the laboratory.
       (ii) If a system is unable to report a valid analytical result for a scheduled sampling date
            due to equipment failure, loss of or damage to the sample, failure to comply with the
            analytical method requirements, including the quality control requirements in
            subdivision (d) of this section, or the failure of an approved laboratory to analyze the
            sample, then the system shall collect a replacement sample. The replacement sample
            shall be collected no later than 21 days after receiving information that an analytical
            result cannot be reported for the scheduled date, unless the system demonstrates that
            collecting a replacement sample within this time frame is not feasible, or the State
            approves an alternative resampling date. The system shall submit an explanation for
            the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the shipment of the
            replacement sample to the laboratory.
       Systems that fail to meet the criteria of paragraph (2) of this subdivision for any source
       water sample required under subdivision (a) of this section shall revise their sampling
       schedules to add dates for collecting all missed samples. Systems shall submit the revised
       schedule to the State for approval prior to when the system begins collecting the missed
       samples.




                                             Page 154
(c) Sampling Locations.
       Systems required to conduct source water monitoring under subdivision (a) of this section
       shall collect samples for each plant that treats a surface water or GWUDI source. Where
       multiple plants draw water from the same influent, such as the same pipe or intake, the
       State may approve one set of monitoring results to be used to satisfy the requirements for
       all plants.
       Systems shall collect source water samples prior to chemical treatment, such as
       coagulants, oxidants, and disinfectants, unless the State determines that collecting a
       sample prior to chemical treatment is not feasible for the system and that the chemical
       treatment is unlikely to have a significant adverse effect on the analysis of the sample.
       Systems that recycle filter backwash water shall collect source water samples prior to the
       point of filter backwash water addition.
       Bank filtration.
       (i) Systems that receive Cryptosporidium treatment credit for bank filtration, as
            applicable, shall collect source water samples in the surface water prior to bank
            filtration.
       (ii) Systems that use bank filtration as pretreatment to a filtration plant shall collect
            source water samples from the well (i.e., after bank filtration). Use of bank filtration
            during monitoring shall be consistent with routine operational practice. Systems
            collecting samples after a bank filtration process may not receive treatment credit for
            the bank filtration.
       Multiple sources. Systems with plants that use multiple water sources, including multiple
       surface water sources and blended surface water and ground water sources, shall collect
       samples as specified in subparagraph (i) or (ii) of this paragraph. The use of multiple
       sources during monitoring shall be consistent with routine operational practice.
       (i) If a sampling tap is available where the sources are combined prior to treatment,
            systems shall collect samples from that tap.
       (ii) If a sampling tap where the sources are combined prior to treatment is not available,
            systems shall collect samples at each source near the intake on the same day and
            select one of the following options for sample analysis;
            (a) Systems may composite samples from each source into one sample prior to
                 analysis. The volume of sample from each source shall be weighted according to
                 the proportion of the source in the total plant flow at the time the sample is
                 collected; or
            (b) Systems may analyze samples from each source separately and calculate a
                 weighted average of the analysis results for each sampling date. The weighted
                 average shall be calculated by multiplying the analysis result for each source by
                 the fraction the source contributed to total plant flow at the time the sample was
                 collected and then summing these values.
       Additional Requirements. Systems shall submit a description of their sampling
       location(s) to the State at the same time as the sampling schedule. This description shall
       address the position of the sampling location in relation to the system’s water source(s)
       and treatment processes, including pretreatment, points of chemical treatment, and filter
                                              Page 155
       backwash recycle. If the State does not respond to a system regarding sampling
       location(s), the system shall sample at the reported location(s).

(d) Reporting source water monitoring results.
       Systems shall report results from the source water monitoring no later than 10 days after
       the end of the first month following the month when the sample is collected.
       Systems shall report the following information, as applicable, for the source water
       monitoring samples required under subdivision (a) of this section.
       (i) Systems shall report the following data elements for each Cryptosporidium analysis:
           PWS ID; facility ID sample collection date sample type (field or matrix spike);
           sample volume filtered (in liters, to the nearest 0.25 liter); confirmation that 100
           percent of filtered volume was examined; and the number of oocysts counted.
           (a) For matrix spike samples, systems shall also report the sample volume spiked and
               estimated number of oocysts spiked. These data are not required for field samples.
           (b) For samples in which less than 10 liters are filtered or less than 100 percent of the
               sample volume is examined, systems shall also report the number of filters used
               and the packed pellet volume.
           (c) For samples in which less than 100 percent of sample volume is examined,
               systems shall also report the volume of resuspended concentrate and volume of
               this resuspension processed through immunomagnetic separation.

       (ii) Systems shall report the following data elements for each E. coli analysis: PWS ID;
            facility ID; sample collection date; analytical method number; method type; source
            type; E. coli/100 mL; and turbidity. Systems serving fewer than 10,000 people that
            are not required to monitor for turbidity are not required to report turbidity with their
            E. coli results.


5-1.82: Requirements when making a significant change in disinfection practice. (Effective
Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Following the completion of initial source water monitoring under section 5-1.81(a)(1) of this
    Subpart, a system that plans to make a significant change to its disinfection practice, as
    defined in subdivision (b) of this section, shall develop disinfection profiles and calculate
    disinfection benchmarks for Giardia lamblia and viruses, in accordance with 40 CFR
    141.709. Prior to changing the disinfection practice, the system shall notify the State and
    shall include in this notice the following information:
       A completed disinfection profile and disinfection benchmark for Giardia lamblia and
       viruses prepared as described in 40 CFR 141.709.
       A description of the proposed change in disinfection practice.

       An analysis of how the proposed change will affect the current level of disinfection.

(b) Significant changes to disinfection practice are defined as follows:
       Changes to the point of disinfection;
                                               Page 156
       Changes to the disinfectant(s) used in the treatment;
       Changes to the disinfection process; or
       Any other modification identified by the State as a significant change to disinfection
       practice.


5-1.83: Treatment Technique Requirements (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Bin classification for filtered systems.

       Following completion of the initial round of source water monitoring under section 5-
       1.81(a)(1) of this Subpart, filtered systems shall calculate an initial Cryptosporidium bin
       concentration for each plant for which monitoring was required, such calculation shall be
       done in accordance with 40 CFR 141.710(b)(1) through 40 CFR 141.710(b)(5).
       Calculation of the bin concentration shall use the Cryptosporidium results reported under
       section 5-1.81 of this Subpart.
        Filtered systems shall determine their initial bin classification from the following table
       and using the Cryptosporidium bin concentration calculated under paragraph (1) of this
       subdivision:


            BIN CLASSIFICATION TABLE FOR FILTERED SYSTEMS
             System                     Cryptosporidium Concentration1                Bin
           Characteristic                                                        Classification
       Required to monitor for     Cryptosporidium <0.075 oocyst/L                   Bin 1
         Cryptosporidium
                                   0.075 oocysts/L < Cryptosporidium <1.0            Bin 2
                                   oocyst/L

                                   1.0 oocyst/L < Cryptosporidium <3.0               Bin 3
                                   oocysts/L

                                   Cryptosporidium >3.0 oocysts/L                    Bin 4

        Serving fewer than       Not Applicable                                      Bin 1
      10,000 people and NOT
      required to monitor for
         Cryptosporidium
   1 Based on calculations in paragraph (1) or (4) of this subdivision, as applicable.


       Following completion of the second round of source water monitoring required under
       section 5-1.81(a)(2) of this Subpart, filtered systems shall recalculate their
       Cryptosporidium bin concentration using the Cryptosporidium results reported under
                                               Page 157
         section 5-1.81(a)(2) of this Subpart, and following the procedures in 40 CFR
         141.710(b)(1) through 40 CFR 141.710(b)(4). Systems shall then reevaluate their bin
         classification using the bin concentration from the second round of monitoring and the
         table in paragraph (2) of this subdivision.
         (i) Filtered systems shall report their initial bin classification under paragraph (2) of this
         subdivision to the State for approval no later than six months after the system is required
         to complete initial source water monitoring based on the schedule referenced in section 5-
         1.81(a)(3) of this Subpart.
         (ii) Systems shall report their bin classification under paragraph (3) of this subdivision to
              the State for approval no later than six months after the system is required to
              complete the second round of source water monitoring based on the schedule
              referenced in section 5-1.81(a)(3) of this Subpart.
         (iii)The bin classification report to the State shall include a summary of source water
              monitoring data and the calculation procedure used to determine bin classification.

(b) Filtered system additional Cryptosporidium treatment requirements.
         Filtered systems shall provide the level of additional treatment for Cryptosporidium
         specified in this paragraph based on their bin classification as determined under
         subdivision (a) of this section and according to the schedule in subdivision (d) of this
         section.

                     If the system uses the following filtration treatment in full compliance with
                     section 5-1.30(b) of this Subpart (as applicable), then the additional
    System           Cryptosporidium treatment requirements are:
 Classification      Conventional                                     Slow Sand or      Alternative
                     Filtration Treatment       Direct Filtration     Diatomaceous      Filtration
                     (including softening)                            Earth Filtration Technologies
 Bin 1               No additional                     No additional               No additional            No additional
 Bin 2               1-log                             1.5-log                     1-log                    (1)
 Bin 3               2-log                             2.5-log                     2-log                    (2)
 Bin 4               2.5-log                           3-log                       2.5-log                  (3)
     1 As determined by the State such that the total Cryptosporidium removal and inactivation is at least 4.0-log.
     2 As determined by the State such that the total Cryptosporidium removal and inactivation is at least 5.0-log.
     3 As determined by the State such that the total Cryptosporidium removal and inactivation is at least 5.5-log.




          (i) Filtered systems shall use one or more of the treatment and management options, as
         approved by the State, to comply with the additional Cryptosporidium treatment required
         in paragraph (1) of this subdivision.
         (ii) Systems classified in Bin 3 and Bin 4 shall achieve at least 1-log of the additional
              Cryptosporidium treatment required under paragraph (1) of this subdivision using
              either one or a combination of the following, as approved by the State: bag filters,
              bank filtration, cartridge filters, chlorine dioxide, membranes, ozone, or UV.

                                                         Page 158
       Failure by a system in any month to achieve treatment credit at least equal to the level of
       treatment required in paragraph (1) of this subdivision is a violation of the treatment
       technique requirement.
       If the State determines during a sanitary survey or an equivalent source water assessment
       that, after a system completed the monitoring conducted under section 5-1.81(a)(1) or (2)
       of this Subpart, significant changes occurred in the system’s watershed that could lead to
       increased contamination of the source water by Cryptosporidium, the system shall take
       actions specified by the State to address the contamination.

(c) Unfiltered system Cryptosporidium treatment requirements.

       Determination of mean Cryptosporidium level.
       (i) Following completion of the initial source water monitoring required under section 5-
            1.81(a)(1) of this Subpart, unfiltered systems shall calculate the arithmetic mean of all
            Cryptosporidium sample concentrations reported for such monitoring. Systems shall
            report this value to the State for approval no later than six months after the month the
            system is required to complete initial source water monitoring based on the schedule
            referenced in section 5-1.81(a)(3) of this Subpart.
       (ii) Following completion of the second round of source water monitoring required under
            section 5-1.81(a)(2) of this Subpart, unfiltered systems shall calculate the arithmetic
            mean of all Cryptosporidium sample concentrations reported under that monitoring.
            Systems shall report this value to the State for approval no later than six months after
            the month the system is required to complete the second round of source water
            monitoring based on the schedule referenced in section 5-1.81(a)(3) of this Subpart.
       (iii)If the monthly Cryptosporidium sampling frequency varies, systems shall first
            calculate a monthly average for each month of monitoring. Systems shall then use
            these monthly average concentrations, rather than individual sample concentrations,
            in the calculation of the mean Cryptosporidium level in subparagraphs (i) or (ii) of
            this paragraph.
       (iv) The report to the State of the mean Cryptosporidium levels calculated under
            subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph shall include a summary of the source
            water monitoring data used for the calculation.
       Cryptosporidium inactivation requirements. Unfiltered systems shall provide the level of
       inactivation for Cryptosporidium specified in this paragraph, based on their mean
       Cryptosporidium levels as determined under paragraph (1) of this subdivision and
       according to the schedule in subdivision (d) of this section.
       (i) Unfiltered systems with a mean Cryptosporidium level of 0.01 oocysts/L or less shall
            provide at least 2-log Cryptosporidium inactivation.
       (ii) Unfiltered systems with a mean Cryptosporidium level of greater than 0.01 oocysts/L
            shall provide at least 3-log Cryptosporidium inactivation.
       Inactivation treatment technology requirements. Unfiltered systems shall use chlorine
       dioxide, ozone, or UV to meet the Cryptosporidium inactivation requirements of this
       section.


                                              Page 159
       Use of two disinfectants. Unfiltered systems shall meet the combined Cryptosporidium
       inactivation requirements of this section and Giardia lamblia and virus inactivation
       requirements of section 5-1.30(c)(3) of this Subpart using a minimum of two
       disinfectants, and each of two disinfectants must separately achieve the total inactivation
       required for either Cryptosporidium, Giardia lamblia, or viruses. Systems that fail to
       install a second disinfectant to treat for Cryptosporidium are in violation of the treatment
       technique requirement.

(d) Schedule for compliance with Cryptosporidium treatment requirements.

       Following initial bin classification under subdivision (a) of this section, filtered systems
       shall provide the level of treatment for Cryptosporidium required under subdivision (b) of
       this section, on a schedule approved by the State.
       Following initial determination of the mean Cryptosporidium level under subdivision
       (c)(1)(i) of this section, unfiltered systems shall provide the level of treatment for
       Cryptosporidium required under subdivision (c).
       If the bin classification for a filtered system changes following the second round of
       source water monitoring, as determined under subdivision (a)(3) of this section, the
       system shall provide the level of treatment for Cryptosporidium required under
       subdivision (b) of this section on a schedule approved by the State.

       If the mean Cryptosporidium level for an unfiltered system changes following the second
       round of monitoring, as determined under subdivision (c)(1)(ii) of this section, and if the
       system shall provide a different level of Cryptosporidium treatment under subdivision (c)
       of this section due to this change, the system shall meet this treatment requirement on a
       schedule approved by the State.




                                             Page 160
Variances and Exemptions
5-1.90 Variance from a maximum contaminant level. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water may request, and the department may grant, one or more variances
    from an MCL contained in sections 5-1.51 and 5-1.52 tables 1, 3, 5 and 7 of this Subpart to
    any public water system based on a finding that:
       because of characteristics of the raw water sources which are reasonably available to it,
       the public water system cannot meet the requirements respecting such MCL despite
       application of the best available technology, treatment techniques or other means which
       are generally available, taking costs into consideration; and
       the granting of a variance will not result in an unreasonable risk to health.

(b) At the time of the granting of the variance, the department shall prescribe, and the supplier of
    water shall follow, a schedule for:
       compliance, including increments of progress, to meet each MCL covered by the
       variance; and
       implementation of such control measures as the department may require.


5-1.91 Variance from required use of any specified treatment technique. (Effective Date:
January 17, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water may request, and the department may grant, one or more variances
    from any treatment technique requirement, except filtration and disinfection, in accordance
    with section 5-1.30(b), (c) and (g) of this Subpart on a finding that such treatment technique
    is not necessary to protect the health of persons served by the public water system because of
    the raw water source or sources of such system.

(b) As a condition to the granting of a variance under subdivision (a) of this section, the supplier
    of water shall perform monitoring and other requirements as prescribed by the department.

(c) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section, section 5-1.30 of this Subpart shall
    govern the conditions under, and the manner which, a waiver of mandatory disinfection
    treatment for a ground water source may be granted.

(d) The technologies listed in this section are the best technology, treatment techniques, or other
    means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for organic
    chemicals listed in section 5-1.52 table 3 of this Subpart:




                                              Page 161
BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGIES (BATs)


                                     Best Available Technologies
            Contaminant
                                   PTA1         GAC2           OX3
Benzene                        X            X
Carbon tetrachloride           X            X
1,2-Dichloroethane             X            X
Trichloroethylene              X            X
para-Dichlorobenzene           X            X
1,1-Dichloroethylene           X            X
1,1,1-Trichloroethane          X            X
Vinyl chloride                 X
cis-1,2-Dichloroethylene       X             X
1,2-Dichloropropane            X             X
Ethylbenzene                   X             X
Monochlorobenzene              X             X
o-Dichlorobenzene              X             X
Styrene                        X             X
Tetrachloroethylene            X             X
Toluene                        X             X
trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene     X             X
Xylenes (total)                X             X
Alachlor                                     X
Aldicarb                                     X
Aldicarb sulfoxide                           X
Aldicarb sulfone                             X
Atrazine                                     X
Carbofuran                                   X
Chlordane                                    X
Dibromochloropropane           X             X
2,4-D                                        X
Ethylene dibromide             X             X
Heptachlor                                   X
Heptachlor epoxide                           X
Lindane                                      X
Methoxychlor                                 X
                             Page 162
                                            BATS Continued
                  Contaminant                            Best Available Technologies
                                                       PTA1         GAC2           OX3

    PCBs                                                             X
    Pentachlorophenol                                                X
    Toxaphene                                                        X
    2,4,5-TPBenzo(a)pyrene                                           X
    Dalapon                                                          X
    Dichloromethane                               X
    Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate                       X                  X
    Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate                                        X
    Dinsoeb                                                          X
    Endothal                                                         X
    Endrin                                                           X
    Glyphosate                                                                          X
    Hexachlorobenzene                                                X
    Hexachlorocyclopentadiene                     X                  X
    Oxamyl (Vydate)                                                  X
    Picloram                                                         X
    Simazine                                                         X
    1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene                        X                  X
    1,1,2-Trichloroethane                         X                  X
    2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)                                            X
    TTHM, HAA5, Bromate, Chlorite4

1
    Packed Tower Aeration
2
    Granular Activated Carbon
3
    Oxidation (Chlorination or Ozonation)
4
  For surface water systems or ground water systems influenced by surface water, GAC10, as defined in
section 5-1.1 of this Subpart, is the BAT for compliance with the TTHM and HAA5 MCL as a Running
Annual Average (RAA). The other BAT for RAA compliance is enhanced coagulation for TTHM and
HAA5 precursor removal, as described in section 5-1.60 of this Subpart. For compliance with the MCLs for
TTHM and HAA5 as LRAAs, the following are the BATs: enhanced coagulation or enhanced softening,
plus GAC10; GAC20, as defined in section 5-1.1 of this Subpart; or nanofiltration with a molecular weight
cutoff less than or equal to 100 Daltons. Refer to section 5-1.65 of this Subpart for BATs for TTHM,
HAA5, Bromate, and Chlorite.




                                                Page 163
(e) The following are the best technologies, treatment techniques, or other means available for
    achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for the inorganic chemicals and
    radionuclides listed in section 5-1.52 Tables 1 and 7 of this Subpart:



                     Technologies for Achieving MCL Compliance
                                                           Best Available
          Chemical Name
                                                            Technologies
             Antimony                                                          2,7
                       5
             Arsenic                                                           1,2,5,6,7,9,136
             Asbestos                                                          2,3,8
             Barium                                                            5,6,7,9
             Beryllium                                                         1,2,5,6,7
             Cadmium                                                           2,5,6,7
             Chromium                                                          2,5,62,7
             Cyanide                                                           5,7,10
             Fluoride                                                          1,7
             Mercury (Hg)                                                      21,4,61,71
             Nickel                                                            5,6,7
             Nitrate                                                           5,7
             Nitrite                                                           5,7, 9
             Selenium                                                          1,23,6,7,9
             Thallium                                                          1,5
             Gross alpha (excluding radon and uranium)                         7
             Combined radium (226 and 228)                                     5,6,7
             Uranium                                                           5,6,7,124
              Beta particle and photon radioactivity                           5,7


                           1
                             BAT only if influent Hg concentrations <10 µg/L.
                           2
                             BAT for Chromium III only.
                           3
                             BAT for Selenium IV only.
                           4
                             Assumes that the system already has coagulation/filtration in place.
                            5
                              BATs for Arsenic V. Pre-oxidation may be required to convert Arsenic III
                           to Arsenic V.
                           6
                             To obtain high removals, iron to arsenic ratio must be at least 20:1.


                       (See key to technologies on following page.)




                                                   Page 164
                     Key to Best Available Technologies (BATs) in Table

                     1    = Activated Alumina
                     2    = Coagulation/Filtration (not BAT for systems < 500 service
                          connections)
                     3    = Direct and Diatomite Filtration
                     4    = Granular Activated Carbon
                     5    = Ion Exchange
                     6    = Lime Softening (not BAT for systems < 500 service connections)
                     7    = Reverse Osmosis
                     8    = Corrosion Control
                     9    = Electrodialysis
                     10   = Chlorine
                     11   = Ultraviolet
                     12   = Enhanced coagulation/filtration
                     13   = Oxidation/Filtration

(f) The following are the affordable technologies, treatment techniques, or other means available
    to systems serving 10,000 persons or fewer for achieving compliance with the MCL for
    arsenic as listed in section 5-1.52 Table 1 of this Subpart:


             Technology for Arsenic MCL Compliance at Systems Serving ≤10,000
                                                            Affordable for listed small system
           Small system compliance      technology1         categories
           Activated Alumina (centralized)                  All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Activated Alumina (Point-of-Use)2                All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Coagulation/Filtration3                          Systems Serving 501-10,000
           Coagulation-assisted Microfiltration             Systems Serving 501-10,000
           Electrodialysis reversal4                        Systems Serving 501-10,000
           Enhanced coagulation/filtration                  All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Enhanced lime softening (pH > 10.5)              All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Ion Exchange                                     All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Lime Softening3                                  Systems Serving 501-10,000
           Oxidation/Filtration5                            All Systems Serving 25-10,000
           Reverse Osmosis (centralized)4                   Systems Serving 501-10,000
           Reverse Osmosis (Point-of-Use)2                  All Systems Serving 25-10,000


       Small System Compliance Technologies for Arsenic V. Pre-oxidation may be required to convert
       1

       Arsenic III to Arsenic V.


                                                 Page 165
       2
         When point-of-use or point-of-entry devices are used for compliance, programs to ensure proper longterm
       operation, maintenance, and monitoring must be provided by the water system to ensure adequate
       performance.
       3
         Unlikely to be installed solely for arsenic removal. May require pH adjustment to optimal range if high
       removals are needed.
       4
         May not be appropriate for areas where water quantity may be an issue.
       5
         To obtain high removals, iron to arsenic ratio must be at least 20:1.

(g) The community water systems and nontransient noncommunity water systems must install
    and/or use any treatment method identified in subdivisions (d) and (e) of this section as a
    condition for granting a variance except as provided in subdivision (h) of this section. If after
    the system's installation of the treatment method, the system cannot meet the MCL, that
    system shall be eligible for a variance.

(h) If a system can demonstrate through comprehensive engineering assessments, which may
    include pilot plant studies, that the treatment methods identified in subdivisions (d) and (e) of
    this section would only achieve a de minimis reduction in contaminants, the State may issue
    a schedule of compliance that requires the system being granted the variance to examine
    other treatment methods as a condition of obtaining the variance.

(i) If the State determines that a treatment method identified in subdivision (g) of this section is
     technically feasible, the State may require the stem to install and/or use that treatment
     method in connection with a compliance schedule. The State's determination shall be based
     upon studies by the system and other relevant information.


5-1.92 Exemption from a maximum contaminant level or any treatment technique
requirement. (Effective Date: May 16, 2018)

(a) The supplier of water may request, and the department may grant, one or more exemptions
    from any treatment technique requirement, except for disinfection of a surface water source,
    and/or any MCL, except for Escherichia coli (E. coli). Exemptions may be granted to any
    public water system based on a finding that:
       because of compelling factors which may include economic factors, the public water
       system is unable to comply with such MCL or treatment technique requirement;
       the public water system was in operation on the effective date of such MCL or treatment
       technique requirement; and
       the granting of an exemption will not result in an unreasonable risk to health.

(b) Exemptions, if granted, will be issued with a mandatory compliance strategy to include but
    not be limited to the following:
       a specific time which to achieve compliance, including increments of progress to meet
       the MCL or treatment technique covered by the exemption;
       control measures as the department may require to ensure the public health; and


                                                   Page 166
       appropriate modifications and/or improvements to the existing system or facility as may
       be necessary for the system or facility to fully conform to the requirements of this
       Subpart.

(c) Such schedule prescribed by the department pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section shall
    require compliance with each MCL or treatment technique requirement no later than twelve
    months after the issuance of the exemption.

(d) The final date for compliance provided in any schedule in the case of any exemption may be
    extended by the State for a period not to exceed three years after the date of the issuance of
    the exemption if the public water system establishes that:
       the system cannot meet the standard without capital improvements which cannot be
       completed within the period of such exemption;
       in the case of a system which needs financial assistance for the necessary improvements,
       the system has entered into an agreement to obtain such financial assistance; or
       the system has entered into an enforceable agreement to become a part of a regional
       public water system and the system is taking all practical steps to meet the standard.

(e) In the case of a system which serves a population of no more than 3,300 and which needs
    financial assistance for the necessary improvements, an exemption granted under subdivision
    (a)(1) or (2) of this section may be renewed for one or more additional two-year periods, not
    to exceed six years, if the system establishes that it is taking all practical steps to meet the
    requirements of subdivision (a) of this section.


5-1.93 Variance or exemption requests. (Effective Date: March 11, 1992)

(a) All requests for a variance or an exemption shall be in a form prescribed by and submitted in
    writing to the department. Suppliers of water may submit a joint request for variances or
    exemptions when they seek similar variances or exemptions under similar circumstances.
    The department shall act on any request for a variance or an exemption submitted pursuant to
    section 5-1.90, 5-1.91 or 5-1.92 of this Subpart within 90 days of receipt of the request.

(b) Requests for exemptions to the filtration requirements outlined in section 5-1.30(b) of this
    Subpart must be made by June 29, 1992, except for systems with ground water sources
    determined to be directly influenced by surface water. For systems with ground water sources
    directly influenced by surface water the request for an exemption must be submitted no later
    than six months after notification of the determination of direct influence. Before an
    exemption to a filtration requirement can be granted, the supplier of water must demonstrate
    to the department that the granting of the exemption will not pose an unreasonable risk to
    public health and that the system is in compliance with sections 5-1.30(c)(5), (c)(8), (g) and
    5-1.52 tables 3, 6, 9, and 11 of this Subpart.

(c) Systems with unfiltered surface water sources or ground water sources directly influenced by
    surface water must have a disinfection capability that achieves at least 99 percent inactivation
    of Giardia lamblia cysts before an exemption to a filtration requirement can be granted.
                                              Page 167
5-1.94 Notice and opportunity for public hearing. (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

(a) Before a variance proposed to be granted by the department under section 5-1.90 or 5-1.91 of
    this Subpart may take effect, the department shall provide notice and opportunity for public
    hearing on the proposed variance. A notice given pursuant to the preceding sentence may
    cover the granting of more than one variance and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall
    include each of the variances covered by the notice.

(b) Before a compliance or implementation schedule prescribed by the department pursuant to
    the granting of a variance under section 5-1.90 of this Subpart or an exemption under section
    5-1.92 of this Subpart may take effect, the department shall provide notice and opportunity
    for public hearing on the proposed compliance or implementation schedule, or both. A notice
    given pursuant to the preceding sentence may cover the proposal of more than one such
    schedule and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall include each of the schedules
    covered by the notice.

(c) Public notice of an opportunity for hearing pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of this section
    shall be circulated in a manner designated to inform potentially interested persons of the
    proposed action. Requests for hearing shall be submitted to the department within 30 days
    after issuance of such public notice.

(d) Notice of public hearings to be held pursuant to request submitted by an interested person or
    on the department's own motion shall be given not less than 15 days before the time
    scheduled for the hearing, in a form and manner to be prescribed by the department. Notices
    of public hearing shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested persons of the
    hearing.

(e) If no timely request for hearing is submitted and the department does not determine to hold a
    public hearing on his own motion, the proposed variance or schedule prescribed pursuant to
    the granting of a variance or exemption shall become effective 30 days after notice of
    opportunity for hearing is given pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section. If a public
    hearing is held, the department shall take an action with respect to such proposed variance or
    schedule within 30 days after the end of the public hearing.


5-1.96 Enforceability of final schedule prescribed pursuant to granting of variance or
exemption. (Effective Date: May 27, 1998)

Once a schedule prescribed pursuant to the granting of a variance under section 5-1.90 of this
Subpart or an exemption under section 5-1.92 of this Subpart has become final pursuant to
section 5-1.94(e) of this Subpart, the conditions or requirements of any such schedule shall be
enforceable, on the application of the Commissioner, by any court of competent jurisdiction in
the same manner as an order of the Commissioner under section 1107 of the Public Health Law.




                                              Page 168
Separability
5-1.100 Separability. (Effective Date: June 24, 1977)

If any provisions of this Part are held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions
which can be given effect without the invalid provisions.




                                               Page 169
                                      APPENDIX 5-A
                             (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)


        RECOMMENDED STANDARDS FOR WATER WORKS, 2012 EDITION

“Recommended Standards for Water Works, 2012 edition” reported by the Water Supply
Committee of the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board of State and Provincial Public
Health and Environmental Managers. Available online at
http://10statesstandards.com/ and is available for viewing at the Department of State, One
Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12231 and the Bureau of Water Supply
Protection, Department of Health, Corning Tower, Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY 12237.




                                          Page 170
                    APPENDIX 5-B STANDARDS FOR WATER WELLS
                       (Statutory Authority: Public Health Law 206(18))

Sec.
5-B.1   Application and Definitions
5-B.2   Water Well Location and Protection
5-B.3   Water Well Construction
5-B.4   Well Yield and Water Flow
5-B.5   Water Well Pumps: Construction, Installation, Repair and Maintenance
5-B.6   Water Well Capping and Abandonment
5-B.7   Separability

Table 1    Required Minimum Separation Distances to Protect Water Wells From
           Contamination
Table 2    Standards for Well Casing, Grouting, Diameter, and Screens

Section 5-B.1 Application and Definitions.

(a) Applicability

   (1) This regulation applies to water wells used for drinking, culinary and/or food processing
   purposes and is the minimum standard for construction, renovation, development and
   abandonment of such water wells. Additional requirements may need to be met for certain
   water wells that serve a public water system as defined in Subpart 5-1 of this Title.

   (2) Installation of new and replacement water wells shall meet all of the applicable
   provisions of this Appendix. Deviations may only be allowed at the discretion of the
   Department or local health department in accordance with: a waiver issued pursuant to Part
   75 of this Title; or a variance issued pursuant to Subpart 5-2 of this Title; or a written
   approval issued by the Department or local health department prior to December 1, 2005; or
   a written approval granted by a local health department pursuant to a local sanitary code.

   (3) Other state agencies, regional authorities, and local health departments with authority to
   regulate water wells may establish additional requirements for water wells within their
   respective jurisdictions.

(b) Definitions - As used in this regulation, the following words and terms shall have the
    indicated meaning:

   (1) Adequate means sufficient to accomplish the purpose for which something is intended,
   and to such a degree that no unreasonable risk to health or safety is presented. An item
   installed, maintained, designed and assembled, an activity conducted, or act performed, in
   accordance with generally accepted standards, principles or practices applicable to a
   particular trade, business, occupation or profession, is adequate within the meaning of this
   Appendix.

   (2) Air lift test means a method of performing a water well yield test by pumping air through
   an inductor pipe to force water out of an eductor pipe. The inductor pipe is submerged to a
   depth generally about 60 percent below the static water level to allow for successful

                                             Page 171
completion of the test. The drill pipe is utilized as the inductor pipe/air delivery mechanism
and the casing and/or borehole as the eductor. The flow rate of water in gallons per minute
(gpm) is determined as the water exits the top of the well. The drop of air pressure in the
inductor pipe can be used to estimate the drawdown in the well.

(3) API means American Petroleum Institute.

(4) ASTM means American Society for Testing and Materials.

(5) Bailing test means a method of estimating well yield by bailing a known quantity of
water from static water level and maintaining a stabilized water level over a measured period
of time.

(6) Contaminant includes but is not limited to any physical, chemical, microbiological or
radiological substance or matter in water that can be present at levels of public health
concern.

(7) Decommissioning means the act of filling, sealing and plugging water wells in
accordance with the requirements of Section 5-B.6(a) of this regulation such that the
continued existence of the well will neither pose a health or safety hazard nor serve as a
conduit for contaminant migration to or within the aquifer.

(8) Department means the New York State Department of Health.

(9) Drive shoe means a beveled cutting edge attachment to the bottom of the first section of
permanent steel casing to protect the casing as it is being driven and to provide firm seating
in consolidated geologic materials.

(10) gpm means gallons per minute.

(11) Grout means a material that has a low permeability, such as neat cement, bentonite
slurry, bentonite chips, bentonite pellets, granular bentonite, or other materials that have
equivalent sealing properties.

(12) Hydrofracturing means the procedure of pumping water and/or sand and/or small
particles of high-strength plastic into a geologic formation to induce fracture and increase
yield.

(13) Local health department means a city, county, or part-county department of health.

(14) NSF means the National Sanitation Foundation International, formerly known as
National Sanitation Foundation.

(15) Person means an individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, State
agency, or municipality, including a county.

(16) Pitless adapter means an assembly of parts that will permit water from a well to flow
through the wall of the well casing, or extension thereof, into a pipe leading to a building or


                                          Page 172
other point of water use, and that shall be constructed and installed in a manner to prevent the
entrance of contaminants into the well and the water produced.

(17) Pitless unit means a factory produced assembly that is threaded or welded to the casing
below grade which provides access to the well for maintenance and repair and shall be
constructed and installed in a manner to prevent the entrance of contaminants into the well
and the water produced.

(18) Potable water means water which meets the water quality requirements established in
Subpart 5-1 of the State Sanitary Code.

(19) Public water supply well means a water well used or intended for use for a public water
system as defined in Subpart 5-1 of the State Sanitary Code.

(20) SDR means “standard dimension ratio” which means the ratio of average outside pipe
diameter to minimum pipe wall thickness.

(21) Stabilized water level occurs when water in a well has achieved steady state during a
period of constant rate withdrawal of groundwater (i.e. stabilized drawdown).

(22) Static water level is the natural water level in a well not being pumped or in a well fully
recovered after pumping, as measured from the top of the well casing or the ground surface.

(23) UL means Underwriters Laboratories.

(24) USDA means the United States Department of Agriculture.

(25) USFDA means the United States Food and Drug Administration.

(26) Water well (well) shall mean any excavation for the purpose of obtaining ground water
for drinking, culinary and/or food processing purposes, with installed components (including
well casing, screen, grout, adapters, et. al.).

(27) Water well drilling or water well drilling activities shall mean the construction or
reconstruction of water wells, the establishment or repair of a connection through the well
casing and the repair of water wells including repairs which require the opening of the well
casing.

(28) Well casing means watertight, non-porous material used to maintain a well opening and
provide access to the interior of the well.

(29) Well development or redevelopment of a water well means actions to remove clay, silt,
fine sand and/or organic/inorganic deposits from the aquifer and/or gravel packing to
increase porosity and permeability of the aquifer formation and to minimize continued
pumping of clay, silt and fine sand while obtaining water without changing the physical
construction of the well. Such actions include bailing, jetting, air lifting, pumping, surging,
hydrofracturing and/or chemical treatment.

(30) Well renovation means changes or repairs to water well.

                                          Page 173
      (31) Well yield means a sustainable quantity of water per unit of time that may flow from or
      be pumped continuously from a well and is usually expressed as gallons per minute (gpm).

Section 5-B.2 Water Well Location and Protection.

(a) A well shall be located so that adequate access to the well for inspection, maintenance, repair,
    renovation, treatment, and testing is provided.

(b) A well shall be located where it is not subject to seasonal flooding or surface water
    contamination, or it shall be constructed in such a manner that seasonal floodwater cannot
    enter the well.

(c) A well shall be located upgradient of any potential or known source of contamination unless
    property boundaries, site topography, location of structures and accessibility require a
    different location. The minimum horizontal separation distances from potential sources of
    contamination listed in Table 1 shall be maintained.

(d) The ground surface immediately surrounding a well casing shall be graded to divert surface
    water away from the well. Concrete shall not be used for grading purposes.

Section 5-B.3 Water Well Construction.

(a) Acceptable water well construction methods include well drilling, driving, boring, jetting and
    excavating into an aquifer to obtain groundwater for a source of water supply. Acceptable
    water well drilling methods include cable–tool drilling, percussion drilling, air or mud/direct
    or reverse rotary drilling, sonic drilling, driving water well casing, and boring with earth
    augers to obtain groundwater.

(b) All of the following provisions apply to water well construction.

      (1) Wells shall be constructed according to the requirements of Table 2.

      (2) A well shall be constructed to maintain existing natural protection against contamination
          of aquifers and other geologic materials penetrated during well drilling and installation.

      (3) A well shall be constructed to preclude and prevent entry of all known sources of
          contamination into the well.

      (4) A well shall have a minimum casing length extending from one foot above finished grade
          to nineteen feet below finished grade upon completion of well drilling, with the following
          exceptions:

(i)      The required total length of casing may exceed twenty feet depending upon geologic
         conditions and shall be in accord with the standards for the construction of wells listed in
         Table 2; and

         (ii) Where the only viable source of groundwater available is from a shallow aquifer
         where the well must be completed at a depth less than nineteen feet below grade, the

                                               Page 174
   Department or local health department having jurisdiction may allow use of well casing
   of less than twenty feet total length along with such additional measures as needed,
   including but not limited to increased separation distances per Table 1, Note 1, to ensure
   provision of potable water.

(5) If a well is located in a well house, the floor of the well house shall be at least six inches
    above grade and the permanent casing shall extend at least six inches above the floor.

(6) Upon completion of well drilling and until such time as the well is equipped with a
    pump, the top of the casing shall be secured with a watertight and vermin proof well cap.

(7) Casing and joints must be of sufficient strength and construction to ensure that integrity,
    shape, and ability to properly function are maintained during and after installation.

(8) Steel pipe that is used as permanent well casing shall be new pipe that contains a label or
    imprint indicating compliance with ASTM specification A53, A106, A500 or A589 or
    API specification 5L.

(9) A driven steel permanent casing terminating in bedrock shall be fitted with a drive shoe
    that is firmly seated in the bedrock.

(10) PVC pipe that is used as permanent casing shall be new pipe that contains a label or
     imprint indicating compliance with ASTM specification F 480 and NSF or UL
     standards and shall be Schedule 80 or SDR 21 or heavier. PVC pipe that is installed at
     depths of more than 200 feet shall be SDR 17 or heavier.

(11) Casing pipe that is manufactured from thermoplastic materials other than PVC shall be
     new pipe that contains a label or imprint indicating compliance with ASTM
     specification F 480 (i.e., SDR water pipe) and NSF or UL standards for use with
     drinking water.

(12) PVC and other thermoplastic materials may be used as casing in bedrock if not driven
     and if sealed with grout, provided such use complies with other requirements in this
     Appendix.

(13) Steel, PVC and other materials used as temporary casing in well construction shall be
     clean and free of contaminants. PVC and thermoplastic materials other than PVC used
     as temporary casing shall contain a label or imprint indicating compliance with NSF or
     UL standards for use with drinking water.

(14) A well shall be sufficiently straight and vertical to allow normal installation and
     operation of the pump.

(15) The upper twenty feet of a water well casing shall not be used as a suction line unless
     the well casing is protected by a standard weight or heavier outer casing.

(16) Where bedrock is present within 19 feet of the ground surface, an oversized borehole
     shall be drilled and the permanent casing in the oversized borehole shall be sealed with


                                           Page 175
     grout to a minimum depth of 19 feet below grade, or five feet into the competent
     bedrock, whichever is deeper.

(17) Annular space between the well casing and borehole shall be grouted in accordance
     with Table 2. Where inner and outer well casings are used, the annular space between
     these casings shall be sealed with grout.

(18) An artesian well that overflows at land surface shall be constructed, equipped, and
     operated to provide for controlling the rate of discharges to conserve groundwater and
     to prevent the loss of artesian head by minimizing uncontrolled continuous waste
     discharges. Discharges to waste pipe, where installed, shall not be directly connected
     to a sewer or other source of contamination and shall be equipped with an air gap or
     backflow prevention device. Discharge pipes shall be properly screened to prevent
     entry of vermin.

(19) Wells completed in unconsolidated material or at the unconsolidated-consolidated
     material interface shall be screened if necessary and sufficiently developed to produce
     sand-free water and to minimize the entrance of fine materials into the well.

(20) Lead packers, lead plugs, or lead wool shall not be used as a well component.

(21) No solder containing more than 0.2 percent lead shall be used in making joints and
     fittings in any drinking water supply system or any water user’s water lines.

(22) Wells shall be developed by air lift, bailing, surging, jetting, hydrofracturing and/or
     chemical treatment until sand free. Rock cuttings produced during water well drilling
     and well development shall be cleaned out of the well. As a final stage, the well may
     be pumped to waste at a pumping rate which equals or exceeds that of a permanent
     pump, until the water is clear as reasonably possible considering the groundwater
     conditions of the area. The permanent pump shall not be used to develop the well
     without the owner’s consent.

(23) Water that is used for well construction and development purposes or is otherwise
     introduced into the well, other than water from the well itself, shall be obtained from a
     public water system or, if necessary, from a non-public drinking water source provided
     such non-public source is not surface water nor otherwise known or suspected to be
     contaminated.

(24) A connection to a water well casing that is made below the ground shall be protected by
     a pitless adapter or by a pitless unit (threaded or welded joints). A below ground
     connection shall not be submerged in water during installation. Pitless adapters or
     pitless units to be used shall contain a label or imprint indicating compliance with the
     Water Systems Council Pitless Adapter Standard (PAS -97).

(25) A pitless adapter or pitless unit shall provide adequate clearance within the internal
     diameter of a water well to permit insertion or withdrawal of water system components
     from within the well through the top of the well casing and be constructed and installed
     to exclude dirt or other foreign matter from the interior of the well casing.


                                         Page 176
   (26) Extensions of existing water well casings to at least 12 inches above grade shall be
        constructed of the same material as the existing casing.

   (27) Any chemicals or other additives, including disinfectants, used during construction
        shall be of a specification acceptable for use in water wells and any excess not required
        for operation of the well shall be cleaned out of the well.

   (28) A water well shall be designed, operated, and maintained in a manner that will preclude
        cross-connections or any other piping connections which may introduce contaminants
        into the water supply or aquifer. A physical connection between a water supply that is
        in compliance with the requirements of these rules and another water supply that is not
        in compliance with the requirements of these rules is prohibited unless acceptable cross
        connection control is provided.

   (29) All drilling fluids used for drilling operations shall be of food grade quality or NSF or
        UL approved or shall be water that complies with paragraph 5-B.3(b)(23) of this
        Appendix.

Section 5-B.4 Well Yield and Water Flow.

(a) The purpose of the water well yield test is to provide evidence that a water well will produce
    a sustainable flow rate for an extended period of time and to quantify that flow rate. Before
    being put into use, new and redeveloped wells shall be tested for well yield. The yield test
    for water well flow rates shall meet the following performance requirements:

   (1) water well yield tests shall be performed for a period of time adequate to quantify well
       yield.

   (2) water level and flow rate observations shall be made and recorded, at a minimum, before
       the start of the yield test, immediately upon the cessation of water withdrawal, and
       periodically during drawdown, and recovery periods. Frequency of measurements shall
       be made as necessary for the test method.

   (3) water discharged during a yield test shall be discharged in a manner that avoids short
       circuiting of the water back into the aquifer.

   (4) for wells that have been subjected to hydrofracturing the yield test shall not commence
       until redevelopment has been completed and, as a minimum, until the volume of water
       pumped/discharged into the aquifer has been removed from the well.

   (5) the well yield determined for new wells shall be recorded on the Well Completion Report
       form submitted for that well to the New York State Department of Environmental
       Conservation. Data generated during the yield test shall be provided to the owner of the
       well, and provided upon request to the State or local agency(ies) having jurisdiction.

(b) The standard well yield test should include:

   (1) A minimum four-hour period of stabilized drawdown while pumping at a constant flow
       rate.

                                             Page 177
   (2) During the period of stabilized drawdown the stabilized water level shall not fluctuate
       more than plus or minus 0.5 foot (i.e., within a vertical tolerance of one foot) for each
       100 feet of water in the well (i.e., initial water level to bottom of well) over the duration
       of constant flow rate of pumping. Water level measurement may be determined by steel
       tape, calibrated pressure gauge attached to an air line terminating at least five feet above
       the pump intake, electric sounder, or pressure transducer.

   (3) The recovery period shall include observation of the water level in the well after
       cessation of pumping from the drawdown level back to at least 90 percent of the initial
       water level or for a period of 24 hours, whichever occurs first. If the water level does not
       recover to 90 percent after 24 hours, the tested flow rate may not be sustainable for an
       extended period of time.

(c) The well yield test requirements set forth in subdivision 5-B.4(b) may be modified, or an
    alternative yield test that meets the minimum performance requirements set forth in
    subdivision 5-B.4(a) may be used as follows:

   (1) where the local health department having jurisdiction has determined that adequate
       hydrogeologic information and uniform conditions exist; or

   (2) when an experienced hydrogeologist or licensed professional engineer directs and
       certifies the test; or

   (3) for facilities planned for well water use of less than 500 gallons per day, pumping, bailing
       or air lift test methods may be used.

   (4) the well yield of a flowing artesian well may be determined by direct flow measurement
       if the artesian flow rate equals or exceeds the desired water use rate.

Section 5-B.5 Water Well Pumps: Construction, Installation, Repair and Maintenance.

All of the following provisions apply to water well pumps, construction, installation, repair, and
maintenance:

(a) All water supply system equipment shall be easily accessible for maintenance or repair.

(b) A pump shall be installed so that there are no unprotected openings into the interior of the
    pump or the well casing.

(c) Drop pipe shall be: a continuous unspliced length, except where spliced and adequately
    joined to accommodate use of a check valve or where spliced and adequately joined to
    support a depth extension on an existing well pump, of plastic pipe approved for use with
    drinking water with a minimum working pressure of 160 pounds per square inch containing a
    label or imprint indicating compliance with NSF or UL; or threaded and coupled schedule 80
    or heavier PVC pipe containing a label or imprint indicating compliance with NSF or UL; or
    threaded and coupled galvanized steel, stainless steel or copper pipe. In addition, drop pipe
    should be sufficiently sized and installed to accommodate potential working stresses
    considering well depth, pumping level, pump size, and pump setting.

                                              Page 178
(d) A hand pump shall have a closed, downward facing, screened spout and a sealed pump rod
    packing assembly. A weep hole shall be installed in a hand pump discharge riser pipe below
    the frost line to protect the riser pipe and pump head from freezing.

(e) A casing vent shall be provided on all well caps and seals, except for those used on double
    pipe-packer jet installations. A vent shall be screened, downward facing, and terminate at
    least 12 inches above grade or six inches above the floor of a well house.

(f) Vent screening shall be 20 to 30 mesh per inch screen, shall not reduce the vent open area by
    more than 50 percent, and shall be stainless steel or other non-corrodible material.

(g) Well caps and seals shall be tightly secured to the well casing, watertight, vermin- proof, and
    provide venting as noted in this section. Split caps shall not be used.

(h) Only lubricants with a label indicating compliance as USDA, USFDA, or NSF approved
    food contact grade formulations shall be used as submersible pump motor and vertical
    turbine shaft lubricants.

(i) After a new well has been constructed or an existing well has been repaired or serviced in a
    manner that requires the opening of the well casing, the well shall be pumped to waste until
    the pumped water is reasonably clear. After pumping to waste, the well, pumping
    equipment, and building plumbing shall be disinfected before being put into use.

Section 5-B.6 Water Well Capping and Abandonment.

(a) All water well capping, abandonment and decommissioning shall be in accord with
    requirements in Appendix 5-A of this title.

Section 5-B.7 Separability.

If any provisions of this Appendix are held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions which can be given effect without the invalid provisions.




                                              Page 179
Table 1
Required Minimum Separation Distances to Protect Water Wells from Contamination

                                                                                    Distance
  Contaminant Source                                                                 (Feet)1
  Chemical storage sites not protected from the elements (e.g., salt
  and sand/salt storage)2                                                             300
  Landfill waste disposal area, or hazardous or radiological waste disposal area2     300
  Land surface application or subsurface injection of effluent or
  digested sludge from a Municipal or public wastewater treatment facility            200
  Land surface application or subsurface injection of septage waste                   200
  Land surface spreading or subsurface injection of liquid or solid manure 3          200
  Storage Areas for Manure piles 4                                                    200
  Barnyard, silo, barn gutters and animal pens 5, 6                                   100
  Cesspools (i.e. pits with no septic tank pretreatment)                              200
  Wastewater treatment absorption systems located in coarse gravel
  or in the Direct path of drainage to a well                                         200
  Fertilizer and/or pesticide mixing and/or clean up areas                            150
  Seepage pit (following septic tank) 5                                               150
  Underground single walled chemical or petroleum storage vessels                     150
  Absorption field or bed 5                                                           100
  Contained chemical storage sites protected from the elements
  (e.g. salt and sand/salt storage within covered structures) 7                       100
  Septic system components (non-watertight) 5                                         100
  Intermittent sand filter without a watertight liner 5                               100
  Sanitary Privy pit 5                                                                100
  Surface wastewater recharge absorption system constructed to discharge storm
  water from parking lots, roadways or driveways 5                                    100
  Cemeteries                                                                          100
  Sanitary privy with a watertight vault                                               50
  Septic tank, aerobic unit, watertight effluent line to distribution
  box                                                                                 50
  Sanitary sewer or combined sewer                                                    50
  Surface water recharge absorption system with no automotive
  -related Wastes (e.g., clear-water basin, clear-water dry well)                      50
  Stream, lake, watercourse, drainage ditch, or wetland                                25
  All known sources of contamination otherwise not shown above                        100




                                              Page 180
Notes for Table 1:
1
  The listed water well separation distances from contaminant sources shall be increased by 50%
whenever aquifer water enters the water well at less than 50 feet below grade. If a 50% increase
in separation distances can not be achieved, then the greatest possible increase in separation
distance shall be provided with such additional measures as needed to prevent contamination.
See also Note 6 to Table 2.
2
 Water wells shall not be located in a direct line of flow from these items, nor in any
contaminant plume created by these items, except with such additional measures (e.g., sentinel
groundwater monitoring, hydraulic containment, source water treatment) as needed to prevent
contamination.
3
 Based upon on-site evaluations of agricultural properties done per agricultural environmental
management (AEM) or comprehensive nutrient management plan (CNMP) programs by a
certified nutrient management planner or soil and water conservation district (SWCD) official,
water wells may be located a minimum of 100 feet from areas subject to land spreading of
manure.
4
 Water wells may be located 100 feet from temporary (30 days or less) manure piles/staging
areas that are controlled to preclude contamination of surface or groundwater or 100 feet from
otherwise managed manure piles that are controlled pursuant to regulation in a manner that
prevents contamination of surface or groundwater.
5
  When these contamination sources are located in coarse gravel or are located upgrade and in
the direct path of drainage to a water well, the water well shall be located at least 200 feet away
from the closest part of these sources.
6
    Animal pen does not include small pet shelters or kennels housing 3 or fewer adult pets.
7
 Chemical storage sites as used in this entry do not include properly maintained storage areas of
chemicals used for water treatment nor areas of household quantities of commonly used
domestic chemical.




                                               Page 181
Table 2. Standards for Well Casing, Grouting, Diameter, and Screens

                                                                                                                               Well Diameter
                                             Minimum                                                                                       Well Screen
                                             Casing          Oversize Drillhole    Casing and Grout                                        Diameter 2
  Water-bearing       Overlying              Length or       For Grout,            Placement1                    Cased        Uncased      (where
  Formation           Material               Depth 1         Diameter 1                                          Portion      Portion      applicable)
  1. Sand or gravel   Unconsolidated         19′ minimum;    None required         Grouting not required.        2″ minimum   Does not     2″ minimum
                      caving material;       but 5′ below                                                                     apply
                      sand or sand and       pumping level
                      gravel                 3

  2. Sand or gravel   Clay, hardpan, till,   5′ below        Casing size plus 2″   Upper drillhole shall be      2″ minimum   Does not     2″ minimum
                      silt, or similar       pumping level   if pressure           kept at least one-third                    apply
                      material to depth of   3
                                                             placement of grout    filled with clay slurry
                      more than 15′                          is used,              while driving permanent
                                                             Casing size plus 4″   casing; after casing is in
                                                             if gravity            the permanent position,
                                                             placement of grout    annular space shall be
                                                             is used. 4,5,6        filled with grout 5
  3. Sand or gravel   Clay, hardpan, till,   5′ below        Casing size plus 2″   Annular space around          2″ minimum   Does not     2″ minimum
                      silt, or similar       pumping level   if pressure           casing shall be filled with                apply
                      material containing    4
                                                             placement of grout    grout.
                      layers of sand or                      is used,
                      gravel within 15′ of                   Casing size plus 4″
                      ground surface.                        if gravity
                                                             placement of grout
                                                             is used. 4,5,6




                                                                 Page 183
Table 2. Standards for Well Casing, Grouting, Diameter, and Screens (Continued)

                                                                                                                                Well Diameter
                                                 Minimum                                                                                    Well Screen
                                                 Casing        Oversize Drillhole                                                           Diameter 2
  Water-bearing           Overlying              Length or     For Grout,             Casing and Grout            Cased        Uncased      (where
  Formation               Material               Depth 1       Diameter 1             Placement1                  Portion      Portion      applicable)
   4. Creviced,           Unconsolidated          Through      None required           Casing shall be firmly     6″ minimum   6″ preferred Does not apply
  shattered or            caving material,       caving                               seated in rock. Grouting
  otherwise fractured     chiefly sand or        overburden                           not required.
  shale, limestone,       sand and gravel to
  igneous,                a depth of 19′ or
  metamorphic or          more.
  similar rock types or
  sandstone
   5. Creviced,           Clay, hardpan, till,   Through        Casing size plus 2″    Casing shall be firmly     6″ minimum   6″ preferred   Does not apply
  shattered or            shale, or similar      overburden    if pressure            seated in rock. Annular
  otherwise fractured     material to a depth                  placement of grout     space around casing shall
  shale, limestone,       of 19′ or more                       is used, Casing size   be grouted.
  igneous,                                                     plus 4″ if gravity
  metamorphic or                                               placement of grout
  similar rock types or                                        is used. 4, 5,6
  sandstone
   6. Creviced,           Unconsolidated         19′ minimum    Casing size plus 2″    Casing shall be firmly     6″ minimum   6″ preferred   Does not apply
  shattered or            materials to a depth                 if pressure            seated in rock. Annular
  otherwise fractured     of less than 19′                     placement of grout     space around casing shall
  shale, limestone,                                            is used,               be grouted.
  igneous,                                                     Casing size plus 4″
  metamorphic or                                               if gravity
  similar rock types or                                        placement of grout
  sandstone                                                    is used. 4,6




                                                                           Page 184
Notes for Table 2:
1
 In the case of a flowing artesian well, attempts should be made to install and seal the well in a
manner that protects the artesian aquifer, prevents erosion of overlying geologic materials, and
confines the flow to within the well casing, giving due consideration to practicality, cost, and
safety.
2
 These diameters shall also be applicable in circumstances where the use of perforated casing is
deemed practicable. Well points commonly designated on the trade as 1 1/4” pipe shall be
considered as being 2” nominal diameter well screens for purposes of these regulations.
3
  As used in this table, the term “pumping level” shall refer to the lowest elevation of the water in
a well during pumping, determined to the best knowledge of the water well contractor taking into
consideration usual seasonal fluctuations and drawdown.
4
  Pressure placement includes methods of grout placement using pumps and tremie tubes or
using grout displacement through the casing, or otherwise from the bottom up around the casing,
with one or more drillable plugs. When pressure placement is used with a borehole diameter of
only 2” greater than the casing diameter, casing shall be assembled without couplings unless
installed per the “Casing and Grout Placement” technique described on Line “2” of this Table.
Gravity placement includes any method that relies on gravity to draw grout, either dry or as a
slurry, down into the annular space between the casing and borehole or between an inner casing
and outer casing.
5
 For wells constructed by cable tool, hollow rod, jetting, or other drilling method where the
permanent casing is driven, and where neither temporary casing nor an oversize borehole are
used, dry driven grout methods using granular bentonite may be used. These methods use
continuous feeding of granular bentonite into a starter hole or continuous mounding around the
casing as the casing is driven. Collar flared joints or weld beads extending beyond the outside
diameter of the permanent casing shall be used with sufficient spacing to ensure that the grout
seal is continuous and extends downward into the saturated zone (i.e., beneath the water table).
6
  The oversized borehole for grout placement should be as deep as necessary, based upon local
hydrogeologic conditions and potential contaminant sources, to prevent contamination from
entering the well. Grout should be placed along the full length of casing, particularly where the
presence of non-caving unconsolidated materials, coarse gravel, or creviced, shattered, or
fractured rock may result in pathways of contamination to a well water system. Where this is not
feasible because of practicality, cost or safety, grout shall be placed at least to a minimum depth
of 19 feet. See also Note 1 to Table 1.




                                              Page 185
                                       APPENDIX 5-C.
                              (Effective Date: January 17, 2018)

                    ACCEPTABLE METHODS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF
                       CONTAMINANTS IN DRINKING WATER


Table of Contents



   I. Approved methods for analysis of water samples to determine compliance with this
      Subpart

   II. Sample Compositing Requirements

   A. Inorganic Chemical Compositing Requirements

   B. Water Sample Compositing Requirements for Pesticides, Dioxin, and PCBs


I. Approved methods for analysis of water samples to determine compliance with this
Subpart

All samples shall be analyzed using approved methods as recognized by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and/or the New York State Environmental Laboratory
Approval Program (ELAP). A list of approved methods is available from ELAP on The
Wadsworth Center’s website at
https://www.wadsworth.org/sites/default/files/WebDoc/I180_0_07.pdf or by request from the
Records Access Officer, Department of Health, Corning Tower, Room 2364, Albany, New York
12237-0044. Method references are cited in 40 CFR 141 at 141.21(f), 141.24(e), 141.40(c),
141.131(a)(2), 141.704(a), 141.707(c) and 141.852(c).



Test strips for free chlorine, Method D99–003, may be used for compliance monitoring only
when approval of the State has been provided in writing. Method D99–003, Revision 3.0, “Free
Chlorine Species (HOCl− and OCl−) by Test Strip,” November 21, 2003, is available from

Industrial Test Systems, Inc., 1875 Langston St., Rock Hill, SC 29730 or from the Records
Access Officer, Department of Health, Corning Tower, Room 2364, Albany, New York 12237-
0044.




                                           Page 186
II. Sample Compositing Requirements

A. Inorganic Chemical Sample Compositing Requirements


The State may reduce the total number of samples which must be analyzed in accordance with
Tables 8A-8D of section 5-1.52 of this Subpart by allowing the use of compositing. Composite
samples from a maximum of five samples are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the
method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples shall be
done in an ELAP certified laboratory.

If the concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to one-fifth of the MCL of
any inorganic chemical, then a follow-up sample shall be taken within 14 days at each sampling
point included in the composite. Each of the follow-up samples shall be analyzed for the
contaminant(s) that exceeded one-fifth of the MCL in the composite sample.


B. Water Sample Compositing Requirements for Pesticides, Dioxin and PCBs


The State may reduce the total number of samples collected and analyzed in accordance with
Table 9C of section 5-1.52 of this Subpart by allowing the use of compositing. Composite
samples from a maximum of five samples are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the
method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples shall be
done in an ELAP certified laboratory.

(a) If the concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to the detection limit of
    any organic chemicals listed in section 5-1.52 Table 9C, then a separate follow-up sample
    shall be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite. Each of the
    follow-up samples shall be analyzed for the contaminant(s) which were detected in the
    composite sample.

(b) If duplicates or residual portions of the original sample taken from each sampling point used
    in the composites are available, the system may use such samples if additional sampling is
    necessary. Additional samples shall be analyzed and the results reported to the State within
    14 days of collection.

(c) In systems serving fewer than 3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among
    different systems provided the five-sample limit is maintained. In systems serving 3,300 or
    more persons, the State may permit compositing of samples from up to five sampling
    locations within the system, provided the reporting limit is maintained.




                                              Page 187
                                        APPENDIX 5-D

               Special Requirements for Wells Serving Public Water Systems
                   (Statutory authority: Public Health Law, §§206[18], 225)
Sec.
5-D.l   Application and Definitions
5-D.2   Water Well Location and Protection
5-D.3   Water Well Construction
5-D.4   Well Yield and Water Flow
5-D.5   Well Pumps and Components
5-D.6   Water Well Capping and Abandonment
5-D.7   Separability

Table 1 - Required Minimum Separation Distances to Protect Public Water Supply Wells From
          Contamination
Table 2 - Yield Test and GWUDI Determination Requirements for Wells Serving Public Water
          Systems

Section 5-D.1 Application and Definitions.

(a) (1) This Appendix applies to water wells that serve a public water system as defined in
    Subpart 5-1 of the State Sanitary Code. Additional requirements for these wells are
    contained in Appendix 5-A (Recommended Standards for Water Works) and Appendix 5-B
    (Standards for Water Wells) of this Part. Other state agencies, regional authorities, and local
    agencies with authority to regulate water wells may also have additional requirements.

    (2) The Department or local health department may allow deviations from a standard on a
    case by case basis in accordance with procedures and criteria established by the Department.
    Such deviations may only be allowed upon approval in writing by the Department or local
    health department.

(b) Definitions used in Appendix 5-B shall apply within this Appendix.

Section 5-D.2 Water Well Location and Protection.

(a) Wells serving public water systems shall be located such that the owner of the water system
    possesses legal title to lands within 100’ of the well and the owner controls by ownership,
    lease, easement or other legally enforceable arrangement the land use activities within 200’
    of the well. Hydrogeologic evaluations and source water assessments should be used to
    determine appropriate separation from potential contaminant sources. Where no evaluations
    are available, the minimum separation distances shall be those specified for public water
    system wells in Table 1.

(b) Where the ownership/control distances or separation distances specified in subdivision (a) of
    this Section cannot be achieved, including but not limited to the installation of in-kind
    replacement wells at existing well fields, and alternative water sources have been considered,
    use of such well location may be allowed by the Department or local health department
    having jurisdiction along with such additional measures as needed to prevent contamination

                                             Page 188
    of the water well and/or to otherwise provide potable water. Additional measures may
    include evaluation of local hydrogeology, including consideration of available water and soil
    quality information and historic water quality trends, and may include consideration of
    available source water assessments.

Section 5-D.3 Water Well Construction.

(a) A well shall be constructed to preclude and prevent entry of all known sources of
    contamination into the well to the extent reasonably achievable. Where the only viable
    source of water supply available is contaminated and alternative water sources have been
    considered, the local health department having jurisdiction may allow construction and use
    of a well in contaminated ground water with such additional measures (e.g., treatment and
    monitoring) as needed to ensure provision of potable water.

(b) Well casing shall extend a minimum of 18 inches above finished grade. If a well is located
    in a well house, the floor of the well house shall be at least six inches above grade and the
    permanent casing shall extend at least twelve inches above the floor.

Section 5-D.4 Well Yield and Water Flow.

Before being put into use, new and redeveloped public water supply wells shall be tested for
yield as specified in this section. Where adequate hydrogeologic information and uniform
conditions exist, or when an experienced hydrogeologist or licensed professional engineer directs
and certifies the test, yield testing requirements may be modified by the local health department
having jurisdiction. Additional yield test requirements may need to be met for other agencies
having jurisdiction.

(a) Pumping yield tests shall be done for the minimum duration of time specified in Table 2.
    For wells completed in unconsolidated deposits, constant flow rate testing may be used. For
    wells completed in rock, a minimum of six hours of stabilized drawdown should be observed
    either at the end of the test or as a second test except as allowed under subdivision (d) of this
    section or except where the Department or local health department allows constant rate
    testing.

(b) Where water wells use ground water sources potentially influenced by surface water as
    indicated in Table 2, water quality shall be tested and/or monitored during the pumping yield
    test in accordance with Department guidance for the determination of ground waters under
    the direct influence of surface water.

(c) Periodic water level observations shall be made and recorded during initial drawdown,
    stabilized drawdown, and recovery periods. The recorded data shall be provided in tabular
    form to the local agency(ies) having jurisdiction. During the period of stabilized drawdown
    the stabilized water level shall not fluctuate more than plus or minus 0.5 foot (i.e., within a
    vertical tolerance of one foot) for each 100 feet of water in the well (i.e., initial water level to
    bottom of well) over the duration of constant flow rate of pumping. The water level at the
    endpoint of the stabilized drawdown period shall not be lower than the water level at the
    beginning point of that period. Water level measurement may be determined by steel tape,
    calibrated pressure gauge attached to an air line terminating at least five feet above the pump
    intake, electric sounder, or pressure transducer.

                                                Page 189
(d) If a stabilized pumping level is not achieved during the required test period or if the well
    does not recover to 90% of the initial water level within 24 hours after cessation of pumping,
    a thorough evaluation of the expected sustained performance of the well during seasonal or
    multi-year dry periods shall be prepared. This evaluation may involve additional
    hydrogeologic investigation. Such evaluation may be used in lieu of satisfying the
    objectives of subdivision (c) of this section only at the discretion of the reviewing
    agency(ies) having jurisdiction.

(e) The test shall be conducted at a pumping rate at least equal to the design pumping rate based
    on system demand.

(f) Water discharged during a yield test shall be discharged in a manner that avoids short
    circuiting of the pumped water back into the aquifer.

(g) For wells that have been subjected to hydrofracturing, the yield test shall not commence until
    redevelopment has been completed and, as a minimum, until the volume of water
    pumped/discharged into the aquifer has been removed from the well. After pumping, the
    hydrofractured well shall receive a water well yield test as outlined in this section.

Section 5-D.5 Well Pumps and Components.

Well caps and seals shall be tightly secured to the well casing, watertight, vermin- proof, and
provide venting as noted in this section. Split caps shall not be used. Well caps shall be lockable
and secured with sturdy, weatherproof locks or otherwise secured to prevent tampering.

Section 5-D.6 Water Well Capping and Abandonment.

All water well capping, abandonment and decommissioning shall be in accord with requirements
in Appendix 5-A of this title.

Section 5-D.7 Separability.

If any provisions of this Appendix are held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions which can be given effect without the invalid provisions.




                                              Page 190
Table 1 Required Minimum Separation Distances to Protect
Public Water Supply Wells From Contamination

                                                                             Distance
   Contaminant Source                                                         (Feet)1
   Chemical storage sites not protected from the elements                       300
   (e.g., salt and sand/salt storage)2
   Landfill waste disposal area, or hazardous or radiological waste            300
   disposal area2
   Land surface application or subsurface injection of effluent or             300
   digested sludge from a Municipal or public wastewater treatment
   facility
   Land surface application or subsurface injection of septage waste           300
   Land surface spreading or subsurface injection of liquid or solid           200
   manure
   Storage Areas for Manure piles 3                                            200
   Barnyard, silo, barn gutters and animal pens 3                              200
   Cesspools (i.e. pits with no septic tank pretreatment)                      200
   Wastewater treatment absorption systems located in coarse gravel            200
   or in the direct path of drainage to a well
   Fertilizer and/or pesticide mixing and/or clean up areas                    200
   Seepage pit (following septic tank)                                         200
   Underground single walled chemical or petroleum storage vessels             200
   Absorption field or bed                                                     200
   Contained chemical storage sites protected from the elements                200
   (e.g., salt and sand/salt storage within covered structures) 4
   Septic system components (non-watertight)                                   200
   Intermittent sand filter without a watertight liner                         200
   Sanitary Privy pit                                                          200
   Surface wastewater recharge absorption system for storm water               200
   from parking lots, roadways or driveways
   Cemeteries                                                                  200
   Sanitary privy with a watertight vault                                      200
   Septic tank, aerobic unit, watertight effluent line to distribution box     100
   Sanitary sewer or combined sewer                                             50
   Surface water recharge absorption system with no automotive                None 5
   -related Wastes (e.g., clear-water basin, clear-water dry well)
   Stream, lake, watercourse, drainage ditch, or wetland                      None 5
   All known sources of contamination otherwise not shown above                200




                                             Page 191
Notes for Table 1:
1
 The listed water well separation distances from contaminant sources shall be increased by 50%
whenever aquifer water enters the water well at less than 50 feet below grade. If a 50% increase in
separation distances can not be achieved, then the greatest possible increase in separation distance shall be
provided with such additional measures as needed to prevent contamination.
2
 Water wells shall not be located in a direct line of flow from these items, nor in any contaminant plume
created by these items, except with such additional measures (e.g., sentinel groundwater monitoring,
hydraulic containment, source water treatment) as needed to prevent contamination.
3
  Water wells may be located 100 feet from temporary (30 days or less) manure piles/staging areas that
are controlled to preclude contamination of surface or groundwater or 100 feet from otherwise managed
manure piles that are controlled pursuant to regulation in a manner that prevents contamination of surface
or groundwater. Wells serving public water systems may be located 100 feet from temporary barnyards,
silos, barn gutters, or animal pens that are similarly controlled to prevent contamination of surface or
ground water.
4
 Chemical storage sites as used in this entry do not include properly maintained storage areas of
chemicals used for water treatment.
5
  Wells serving public water systems may be located near water bodies or surface water recharge systems
but are subject to monitoring to determine if groundwater at the point of withdrawal is directly influenced
by surface water and corresponding treatment requirements. Such wells must also be protected from
floodwater pursuant to subdivision 5-B.2(b) of this Part.




                                                  Page 192
Table 2. Yield Test and GWUDI 1 Determination Requirements for Wells Serving Public
Water Systems
                                           Type of Public Water System (see Subpart 5-1) 2
         Well Geologic                 CWS, NTNCWS                               TNCWS
           Formation                                  GWUDI                                GWUDI
      And Casing Depth          Duration (hrs) 3      Testing          Duration (hrs)      Testing
                           For Wells Located 200 feet or less from Surface Water
    All Geology and Casing            72                Yes             Per 5-B.4 if        Yes
            Depths                                                  allowed by LHD 4
                        For Wells Located greater than 200 feet from Surface Water
        Sand and gravel;              24                Yes           Per 5-B.4(b) if       Yes
        ≤ 50 feet casing                                            allowed by LHD    4

        Sand and gravel;              24                 No           Per 5-B.4(b) if        No
        > 50 feet casing                                            allowed by LHD 4
     Non-Carbonate Rock;              72                Yes           Per 5-B.4(b) if       Yes
        ≤ 50 feet casing                                            allowed by LHD    4

     Non-Carbonate Rock;              72                 No           Per 5-B.4(b) if        No
        > 50 feet casing                                            allowed by LHD 4
        Carbonate Rock;               72                Yes           Per 5-B.4(b) if       Yes
      All Casing Depths  5
                                                                    allowed by LHD    4




Notes for Table 2:
1
 GWUDI means ground water source directly influenced by surface water source. Where well water
sources may be potentially influenced by surface water, appropriate water quality testing shall be done in
accordance with Department guidance to determine if the well water source is directly influenced by
surface water.
2
 CWS means community water system as defined in 10 NYCRR Subpart 5-1. NTNCWS means
nontransient noncommunity water system as defined in 10 NYCRR Subpart 5-1. TNCWS means a public
water system that is neither a CWS nor a NTNCWS.
3
 Specified duration is the minimum required pumping period and must include a minimum of six hours
of stabilized drawdown at the end of the test except as allowed under subdivision 5-D.4(d) of this
Appendix.
4
    LHD means local health department as defined in Appendix 5-B.
5
  For wells located in areas that have the potential to draw water from carbonate aquifers, the local health
department may determine based upon a hydrogeologic assessment, records of well logs, and/or other
local geologic data that the aquifer is unlikely to show a surface water influence associated with karst
topography. Where such determination is made, GWUDI testing need not be done.




                                                  Page 193
