Regulatory Determination 4
The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) directs EPA to publish a list of contaminants (referred to as the
Contaminant Candidate List, or CCL) to assist in priority-setting efforts. The SDWA also directs EPA to select
no fewer than five contaminants from the current CCL and determine whether to regulate these contaminants
with a National Primary Drinking Water Regulation (NPDWR). A regulatory determination is a decision on
whether EPA should initiate a rulemaking process to develop an NPDWR for a specific contaminant. Learn
more.

Final Regulatory Determinations for CCL 4
On February, 22, 2021, EPA reissued final regulatory determinations for contaminants on
the fourth Contaminant Candidate List (CCL 4). EPA is making final determinations to regulate
two contaminants, perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), in drinking water
and to not regulate six contaminants (i.e., 1,1-dichloroethane, acetochlor, methyl bromide (bromomethane),
metolachlor, nitrobenzene, and RDX). With the final Regulatory Determinations for PFOA and PFOS, EPA will
move forward to implement the national primary drinking water regulation development process for these two
PFAS. The Regulatory Determinations also outline avenues that the agency is considering to further evaluate
additional PFAS chemicals and provide flexibility for the agency to consider groups of PFAS as supported by
the best available science.

Supporting Materials

      Federal Register Notice: Announcement of Final Regulatory Determinations for the Fourth Drinking
      Water Contaminant Candidate List
      Technical Support Documents for Final Regulatory Determinations 4 are available
      on www.regulations.gov: Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OW-2019-0583.
      Press Release: EPA Takes Action to Address PFAS in Drinking Water
      Infographic: Understanding How EPA Develops New Drinking Water Regulations
      SDWA Evaluation and Rulemaking Process
      Information on PFAS

Preliminary Regulatory Determinations for CCL 4
On February 20, 2020, EPA announced and requested public comment on the preliminary regulatory
determinations for eight CCL 4 contaminants. EPA made preliminary determinations to regulate PFOS and
PFOA in drinking water and to not regulate six contaminants (i.e., 1,1-dichloroethane, acetochlor, methyl
bromide (bromomethane), metolachlor, nitrobenzene, and RDX).

Supporting Materials

      Federal Register Notice: Announcement of Preliminary Regulatory Determinations for the Fourth
      Drinking Water Contaminant Candidate List
      Federal Register Notice: Comment Extension for Preliminary Regulatory Determinations for the Fourth
      Drinking Water Contaminant Candidate List
      Press Release: EPA Announces Proposed Decision to Regulate PFOA and PFOS in Drinking Water
      Technical Support Documents for Preliminary Regulatory Determinations 4 are available
      on www.regulations.gov: Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OW-2019-0583.
